
=Creatures=

''The many strange creatures of the Transylvanian Tribunal cannot all be described here. The broad classes of monster popular in local folktales are described here, but storyguides should strive to make each example a distinctive person. A Transylvanian vampire, dragon, or witch is a particular and unique individual.''

==Dragons of the Tribunal==

''Of all the creatures that prowl the remote landscapes of the Transylvanian Tribunal, none are more terrible than the dragons. The Transylvanian Tribunal covers hundreds of thousands of square miles of land, more than half of it nestled behind nearly impenetrable forests, tortuous ravines, and imposing mountain peaks. Hundreds, perhaps thousands of dragons live in the Tribunal. These fierce beasts can be found in several locations: secluded forest gulches, hidden valleys in the vast plains, rugged river ravines, remote castles, and beneath the surface of the Tribunal’s many lakes and rivers. Superior (literally and metaphorically) to all these climes are the towering peaks of the Tribunal’s mountains, which offer ideal homes for the reclusive beasts. According to legend, dragons are predisposed to mankind depending on the dragon’s gender. A female dragon is always hostile, a bringer of bad weather, and a destroyer of crops. Her brother, on the other hand, takes loving pity on mankind and protects the crops from his sister’s depredations. Many stories tell how a female and male will continuously battle each other, reminiscent of the tales of the Slavic gods Perun and Veles.''
''Such legends are half right. The separation among dragons is not between genders, but supernatural realms. The majority of Transylvanian dragons are affiliated with one of the Infernal or the Magic realm. Infernal dragons prey on mankind, taking what they want and returning to their secluded lairs. Magic dragons prefer isolation and tend to interact with man less frequently, but like Infernal dragons, they value human wives and hordes of gold. Faerie dragons are rare. Transylvania faeries already have strong traditional roles that they play. A faerie playing a dragon role runs the risk of antagonizing one of the proper dragons. Divine dragons may exist, but according to Hermetic records, no true Divine dragons have been encountered in the Tribunal, only those blessed kings who can assume dragon form (see Vampires, later). There are many similarities between Infernal and Magical dragons. Both types vary in size, ranging from the size of large wolves to great behemoths. Predominately quadrupeds, Transylvanian dragons usually have multiple heads, with three and seven being the most common. Infernal and Magical dragons are similarly colored, favoring dark woodsy tones and earthy hues. Both sorts of dragons can be extremely intelligent and cultured, enjoying the refinements of a noble lifestyle. Both Infernal and Magical dragons are difficult to find, for those foolish enough to go looking. As supernatural creatures, they can easily live in areas with extreme conditions. Neither the bottom of a lake nor the top of a barren mountain peak presents any difficulty, although a dragon may make accommodations for his captives. Knowing that he might be able to live beneath the Danube, but his human wife can’t, a dragon might create an environment in which she could breathe. Hermetic magic makes a clear and accurate distinction between Infernal and Magic''
''dragons. Intellego Vim spells will indicate which realm a creature is associated with, although each Intellego Vim spell must be realm-specific. A spell to indicate if a creature is Infernal will not work on a Magic dragon, but will work on an Infernal dragon, and the same holds true for a spell that indicates Magic creatures when cast on a Magic dragon. A simple process of elimination will tell a magus if he is dealing with an Infernal or Magic dragon. Realms of Power: Magic has several ranks of dragon and dragon-kind, from the lowly serpents to the powerful true dragon (page 74). Transylvania’s dragons are all true dragons, even those that don’t conform to the Transylvanian standard of four legs, bat wings, and multiple heads. Weak dragons have Infernal or Magic Might Scores between 15 and 30, typical dragons between 30 and 40, and the most powerful dragons have Might scores between 40 and 50. Legendary dragons have Might scores around 60.''

==Infernal Dragons==

''Called aždaja in the Slavonic languages (pl. aždaje), an Infernal dragon is not a demon but an Infernal beast. Unlike other Infernal beasts, aždaje are intelligent instead of cunning. Aždaje raid and plunder without remorse, amassing wealth and inflicting harm. In aždaje society, might makes right; the stronger aždaje control the weaker. Lesser aždaje hope to grow in power and then reverse the social situation. Reveling in their power, the stronger aždaje take the better lairs and hunting grounds. This hierarchy is controlled through strength. Reputation matters, but an aždaja controls his inferiors by punishing them when they disobey or get in his way.''
''Intelligent and sly-tongued, an aždaja is capable of lies and deceit. After centuries of living in the same geographic area as Hermetic magi, some aždaje pretend to be Magical dragons to avoid Hermetic interaction. This ploy only works if the magus’ Intellego Vim spell cannot penetrate the dragon’s Magic Resistance. However, a very powerful aždaja cannot hide his Infernal nature. Such a beast almost invites magi to come find him, so he can decorate his lair with the their charred bones and seared skulls. Not every aždaja is a multi-headed quadruped. Some aždaje have no legs and resemble huge snakes. Some of these legless dragons have wings. Legless, wingless aždaja prefer dense forests, where they can hide among the fallen pine trees. Colors of both types of aždaje run from midnight black to deep blue to dark green. Aždaje do not breed, and their method of procreation is a mystery. Aždaja numbers have stayed relatively stable for hundreds of years, each living in a well-defined area large enough to''
''support its greed. Like a Magical dragon, an aždaja prefers to live in a remote location. Although the locations may be similar, the trappings are not. Infernal dragon lairs are dark, desolate places, creeping with despair and edged in rot. Usually placed in Infernal auras, the vast majority of these auras are corrupted with the taint of malevolence (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 15).''

==Magical Dragons==

''To most Tribunal residents the magic dragons aren’t much better than the aždaje. Called zmaj (pl. zmajevi), magic dragons lust after the same things — wives and treasure — and often use the same means to get them. Whereas the aždaje know that they are inflicting harm on humans, the zmajevi aren’t aware of the destruction they cause or the hate they engender. Far from stupid, a zmaj''
''is simply unconcerned with his neighbors’ ill feelings. Zmajevi are often multi-headed and darkly hued, like aždaje, and have a size range similar to their Infernal counterparts. Some zmajevi walk on two hind legs, a physical characteristic unique to the Magic dragons. Such zmaj have short forearms ending in clawed hands that can manipulate items, tools, and weapons. Zmajevi lairs are very different from aždaje lairs, although the difference is only discernible by those few individuals lucky enough to visit one. Placed in remote areas, zmajevi lairs are luxurious affairs. A zmaj displays his wealth and decorates his lair with precious stones, stolen tapestries, ornately carved furniture, and other signs of opulence. Some keep human slaves as servants, especially those zmajevi who have human wives. Zmajevi are indifferent toward man, but not necessarily toward their wives, and sometimes happiness can be found within a zmaj’s lair. Zmajevi also live in a social hierarchy, like their infernal cousins the aždaje. The''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Upokorituma, an Aždaja==

''Aždaje are corrupted beasts, not demons, and follow the rules found in Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 77. In most cases, a corrupted beast is a tainted version of a mundane beast, and game statistics are created by adding Infernal Virtues and Flaws to the mundane beast’s existing statistics. Because there are no mundane dragons, a corrupted dragon’s game statistics can either be created using a combination of Infernal Virtues and Flaws (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 77–79) and Virtues and Flaws appropriate for beasts (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 38–43). You may also add Infernal Virtues and Flaws to a Magic dragon, using the rules found in Realms of Power: Magic. In the latter case, the dragon is a creature of the Infernal realm, and has Infernal Might instead of Magic Might, even if it has powers created using the rules for Magic creatures. The following example uses Infernal Virtues and Flaws and standard Virtues & Flaws to create a sample aždaja.''
''Infernal Might: 17 (Vim) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str +2, Sta +4, Dex +1, Qik –2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3)''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Infernal Power (x2); Great Stamina, Lesser Infernal Power, Tough; Greedy, Horrifying Appearance; Demonic Weakness (abhorrent material: Serbian spruce tree), Corrupted Beast, Fear (doves). Personality Traits: Covetous +6, Furious +3, Vengeful +3 Combat: Claws: Init –3, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +4 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 3 (food), Brawl 6 (claw), Survival 3 (wooded gulches) Powers: Claws as Sharp as Satan’s, 5 points, Init +3, Animal: Upokorituma can magically cause his claws to harden and become sharper for a limited period of time (D: Dia), causing an extra +4 Damage with his claw attacks.  (Incantation/Effusion Base 20, +1 Dia) February’s Frosty Bite, 5 points, Init +3, Ignem.''
''This power chills the target enough to burn flesh, doing +10 Damage.  (Incantation/Effusion Base 5, +3 Sight, +1 magnitude of extra Damage) Flight of the Raven, 0 points, Constant, Animal: This power grants Upokorituma wings with which he can fly.  (Debauchery/Phantasm Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 Constant, +1 Size adjustment) Vis: 4 pawns of Vim vis, one in each of the aždaja’s largest canine teeth. Appearance: Upokorituma is squat and stocky, like a thick-legged horse, with eight heads resting atop eight thick necks. His membranous wings appear too small to support its weight, but this is a false impression and the aždaja is a skilled flier. He is dark gray with pink eyes and blood-red gums.''
''Upokorituma lives along the upper Danube, hiding in gulches and hard-toreach ravines. He constantly watches for merchant vessels, often waiting submerged until a targeted ship passes above him. Once past, the beast rises out of the river to attack with surprise. Typically he slays all aboard, sinks the vessel, and returns to his lair with all the loot he can carry.''

|}
''zmajevi social framework is based on reputation, and consists of remembered favors and slights, assistances and injustices. The zmajevi of the Transylvanian Tribunal have co-existed for thousands of years and have a long history of interactions. They remember the violent years, before Fetillusclaviceps created the peace (see insert), and the relatively tranquil time of the last few centuries. The stronger still abuse the weaker, taking their treasure and property, but it is tempered by other relationships and the threat of retribution by other zmajevi. A stronger zmaj might not take a weaker zmaj’s recently abducted wife, if that zmaj is somehow attached to a more powerful third party. This complicated social structure resembles human feudal society, but also contains several intricacies pertinent only to dragons. While the magi of House Tremere don’t exactly understand how it works, it has worked well enough over the years to keep the zmajevi making only occasional raids against human society.''

==Pax Draconis==

''The Roman Empire brought trade, urban centers, and a degree of lasting peace to Dacia. They also brought a dragon, a powerful Roman worm named Fetillusclaviceps who enjoyed secretly watching the Romans. Like an amused child watching a hill of ants, Fetillusclaviceps observed the legions as they imposed Roman rule on the local inhabitants. He was frequently interrupted by native dragon attacks, rapacious beasts who struck without warning or provocation. Dacia, at the time, was a battlefield for dragons. Zmajevi and aždaje warred without peace or patience, engaged in a constant struggle that regularly spilled outside the areas native to dragons and into human places. The Dacian tribes were too disorganized to fight back, and most claimed the reptilian depredations were signs from their angry pagan gods. Fetillusclaviceps realized that the Romans wouldn’t ignore the dragons. Years of watching the Romans had shown how persistent they could be. Fetillusclaviceps thought the dragons would lose if they clashed with the Romans. Transylvania is an ideal habitat for dragons. To save the beasts and sustain their ecology, Fetillusclaviceps had an idea. He would set himself up as ruler, and beat the other''
''dragons into submission. Once the most powerful were defeated, Fetillusclaviceps would allow the native dragons to assume a role in his “empire,” much like the Romans, who drafted native warriors into their army. Fetillusclaviceps would then limit the dragons’ involvement with mankind, forcing them to remain hidden and strike only rarely and with caution. If they must raid — and dragons must — he would impose limitations that would sustain the entire population of dragons. Seeking out the most powerful zmaj in the Carpathian Mountains, a twelve-headed beast named Abur-ciocîrlie, Fetillusclaviceps challenged it to a duel. If the Roman dragon won, the zmaj would become bound to Fetillusclaviceps. Furthermore, Abur-ciocîrlie must bind weaker dragons to him, creating a chain of most powerful to least powerful. If Abur-ciocîrlie won, Fetillusclaviceps promised to show the ancient dragon where the hoard of Decebalus was hidden (see Chapter 7). Overcome by gold-lust, Abur-ciocîrlie agreed and failed in a legendary battle that promoted Fetillusclaviceps to the head of the Transylvanian zmajevi. Fetillusclaviceps then turned to the aždaje, making the same challenge to the most powerful Infernal dragon he could find. This aždaja, named Britvazub, repeatedly accepted Fetillusclaviceps’ challenge and consistently lost. Defeated but not slain, Britvazub would vow submission to Fetillusclaviceps, but then continually break his promise. The Roman dragon needed another tactic to corral the recalcitrant aždaje. Where honor failed, violence succeeded. Fetillusclaviceps found the next strongest aždaja, Slomljenakrila, and promised that if she accepted his peace, Fetillusclaviceps would help her kill Britvazub, which would increase Slomljenakrila’s wealth and territory. He also promised Slomljenakrila that if any of the aždaje broke the treaty, he would assist her in killing them. Forged in the second century, Fetillusclaviceps called his treaty the Pax Draconis or “Dragon’s Peace.” In essence, it states that the dragons will not band together to war on each other, will contain their violence to their immediate area, and will respect the wishes of the more powerful. They will cease to prey on men, although if attacked they can certainly defend themselves. Fetillusclaviceps realized that he could not keep''
''the dragons from taking human wives, so instead he informed the dragons that it was allowed, with a superior dragon’s permission. This clause never worked perfectly; a dragon will not ask another if it can abduct a wife. Instead, Fetilluscalviceps said that any dragon who takes a wife without permission is an outlaw and can be hunted by other dragons, who can band together to kill the outlaw dragon and take his possessions. The end result is that only the more powerful dragons steal wives, and a dragon who does take a human wife does not announce it. The peace works, most of the time. It needs to be periodically reinforced, and Fetillusclaviceps would emerge from his lair from time to time to smite an upstart dragon. Fetillusclaviceps dealt with the zmajevi and the aždaje similarly, never favoring one kind over the other. As the centuries passed, Fetillusclaviceps’ personal appearances decreased. The longer the Roman dragon’s absences, the more frequent dragon outlawry becomes. During one particularly volatile episode of dragon raids in the early ninth century, Tremere the founder impersonated Fetillusclaviceps and suppressed the rebellious dragons. Tremere magi aren’t sure what the founder’s motives were, and any recorded explanation was lost in the Sundering. Was it merely to stop raiding dragons, or did the Founder have other plans in mind? Tremere himself never spoke of his impersonation. Fetillusclaviceps has been sighted a halfdozen times in the last three centuries, but he never directly encountered by a magus, nor has his lair been discovered. The dragon has not been seen in more than 50 years. Some Tremere magi wonder if the past sightings were really Fetillusclaviceps or one of their own, copying the Founder’s impersonation of the beast. There is no official Tremere policy to continue pretending to be the Roman dragon, as far as anyone knows, although it does make a certain amount of sense. Frequent appearances keep the aždaje and the zmajevi in line, making them less of a problem for Hermetic and mundane society.''

==Dragon-Born==

''A zmaj with a human wife can produce human offspring. Born in the dragon’s lair, the children rarely remain with their father,''

==Danaslepih, a Zmaj==

''Danaslepih is young by zmaj standards. Born blind, he has developed acute senses of smell and hearing, and can travel about his territory effortlessly. He knows the smell of every plant in the Tribunal, and if he smells grain crops growing too close to his home, he destroys them. His lair is hidden among a closely growing group of horse-chestnut trees along the Drina River in western Serbia.''
''Magic Might: 25 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str +10, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik –2 Size: +4 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Monster; Increased Characteristics (x3), Self-Confident, Tough (x2); Blind Magical Qualities & Inferiorities: Gigantic (x3), Greater Power (x3); Improved Attack, Improved Initiative, Improved Power, Personal Power (x3), Gift of Speech Personality Traits: Protective +6, Aloof +3, Disrespectful +3 Combat: Bite*: Init 0, Attack +17, Defense +9, Damage +13 *Danaslepih can make multiple attacks in a single round, each attack using the statistics earlier. Because of the dragon’s size, he can only attack a specific Size 0 target twice in a single round. For each Size above 0, the dragon can add an additional attack to that target in the same round. Soak: +9 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 2 (listening), Brawl 9 (large teeth), Stealth 3 (hiding), South Slavonic 3 (Serbian), Survival 3 (forests) Powers: The Beast with Five Heads, 0 points, Constant, Animal: This constant power gives Danaslepih five additional heads, for a total of six. It does not regrow lost heads or regenerate damaged heads. This effect is achieved by buying the Magical Quality: Personal Power''
''thrice and the Magical Quality: Improved Powers once. Each head can speak and make an attack.  (Base 25, +2 Sun, +1 constant, +4 additional heads) Assuming the Horse-chestnut, 4 points, Init –6, Animal: The dragon can turn into a tree. He can assume the shape of a standing tree by standing on his hind legs before the transformation, or a fallen tree by lying down.  (Base 10, +1 Conc, +1 Herbam requisite, +3 Size adjustment) The Field Made Fallow, 4 points, Init –6, Herbam: Danaslepih can wither crops and destroy a field with a touch of his claw. This power can destroy a group of up to 10,000 plants.  (Base 5, +1 Touch, + 2 Group, +3 to affect a larger group) The Captive Encased in Bark, 3 points, Init –7, Corpus: Danaslepih’s breath can change a person into a tree, a horse-chestnut similar to, but not as large as, the same kind of tree the zmaj can become. His nostrils need to be very close to the subject, effectively Touch range.  (Base 25, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +1 Herbam requisite; excess levels used as mastery points to reduce point cost by 2) Inquiry of the Leafy Sentinel, 3 points, Init –5, Herbam: Danaslepih can speak with trees and shrubs.  (Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Diam) Vis: 5 pawns of Animal vis located in the five most prominent dorsal scales on the dragon’s back. Appearance: Danaslepih has green scales that look as if they are tinged with mold, but it is merely his coloring. Long, lean, and low to the ground, his body is 40 feet long from fangs to tail, but stands only 6 feet high at the shoulders. His six heads twist and writhe like snake tongues tasting the air, motionless only when he is stalking prey.''
''Danaslepih generally prowls the borders of his territory, hunting deer and protecting his grove from encroaching farmers. He is not violent, although he can be very rude. When encountering a farmer, he destroys the man’s crops and changes the farmer into a tree. Like other zmajevi, Danaslepih is looking for a wife.''
''and it is more common for the child to be returned to the mother’s kinfolk. A zmaj feels no strong attachments to the child, and the child is not especially predisposed one way or another to his reptilian parent. Some of the most famous dragon slayers of Transylvanian legends were dragon-born men. While dragons themselves have bad reputations, dragon-born children are well-regarded. Peasants think that dragon blood mixed with human kindness produces a person destined to aid mankind. Dragon-born look like regular men and women to most people. A viewer with Second Sight will see that the dragon-born’s pupils are slit like a snake’s instead of round, and that the dragon-born’s skin has a reflective shine to it, like light reflecting off scales. Dragon-born are another type of Magic Kin, as described in Realms of Power: Magic, page 89. Like others of their ilk, each dragon-born character has “Inherited Virtues” and “Common Flaws” that must be purchased at character generation.''

==The Dragon War==

''With few interruptions, the Pax Draconis has held, maintaining the peace between the aždaje and the zmajevi, and keeping their depredations against human neighbors to a minimum. Most altercations with dragons are with individuals, who are often defending their lairs or recovering stolen property. But this could change at any time.''
''The only thing holding the dragons in check is the Pax Draconis, and the only thing that gives the treaty its weight is Fetillusclaviceps. If Fetillusclaviceps was removed, then the dragons would seize new opportunities, revenging old grudges and taking whatever they could. Every dragon wants more, especially gold, and being egotistical by nature, every dragon thinks that it deserves more than it has. Violence would rule the day and descend like a plague on mankind. Within this war, it is entirely possible that groups of dragons might unite. Revenge or gain motivates dragons to form groups. A powerful aždaja impresses weaker aždaje into a raiding party. Several zmajevi bond together to claim a specific territory. It is unlikely that a zmaj and aždaja would unite for a joint purpose, because the two are too dissimilar in mindset to find common cause. It is more probable that one type would unite to destroy a dragon of the other type. But animosity does not just exist between zmajevi and aždaje, and nearly every dragon in the Tribunal has a laundry list of those he’d like to harm. Both aždaje and zmajevi plunder human settlements at will, taking gold and slaves. As the self-proclaimed military protectors of the Order, House Tremere cannot stand idle if dragons war against each other and humanity. It is the chance the House has been waiting for, the opportunity to prove themselves to the Order as a whole. While they might hide in their oppida and covenants, they will eventually be found. And dare they risk the state of events if they are not found? What will the Tribunal look''
''like after a year of constant dragon warfare? They must launch into action, putting their weapons, fortifications, and warlike strategies to work. A dragon war is an epic saga, one that tests every resource of House Tremere and weighs the mettle of every magus in the Tribunal. Such a saga is not a plug-and-play adventure. It requires that the storyguide select events that are relevant to the characters and enjoyable to the players. Much like a story, the saga needs a hook, something to start the war and get the player-characters involved, several situational events, and a climax, a resolution that the players achieve rather than witness. Several suggestions follow, allowing you to select those that fit your troupe’s style of play.''
''The Hook: Sparking the Dragon War''
''The dragons have remained idle in Transylvania for a long time. Something needs to ignite them into action. The simplest trigger is the removal of Fetillusclaviceps, or the awareness that the dragon is already gone, which would make the peace empty. The actual trigger of the war could be any of the following events.''
''• Veles Returns. A rise in the worship of Perun by the Slavs unfortunately rouses Veles, the god’s archenemy. Returned from the mystic realm with which it is associated, Veles immediately incites the other dragons associated with him to war. If Veles is a Magic creature, then the zmajevi would break the peace. If Veles is an Infernal creature, he is a demon rather than a corrupted beast, and has the power to force the aždaje to follow him. Fetillusclaviceps cannot be found. Perhaps he has already fallen to Veles. Dragons test their boundaries, and as the conflagration flares, they exercise their power in a mad dash for gold, property, and renown. • Abur-ciocîrlie Returns. Tired of lying dormant, the ancient Slavic dragon once again challenges the Roman worm. Unable to stomach his secondary role any longer, Abur-ciocîrlie leaves his castle fortress and holds council with several dragons. Being older and wilier, he knows that it will take more than mere loot to assemble a team of sparring drag''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Dragon-Born Statistics==

''Inherited Virtues: Greater Immunity (fire); Personal Power, Self-Confident Common Flaws: Greedy (women or gold)''
''A dragon-born character receives a Personal Power, designed according to the rules found in Realms of Power: Magic Realm, page 41. The power should mirror a power possessed by the character’s dragon father. Two example Personal Powers are:''
''Lungs of the Fish''
''R: Per, D: Moon, T: Part The character was born to a dragon''
''that lived under a lake and can breathe water by expending a Fatigue Level. (Base 4, +3 Moon, +1 Part.''
''Hands of the Fiery Beast''
''R: Per, D: Conc, T: Part The character can cause his hands to become so hot that they ignite held material and burn those he touches. Visually, the character’s hands glow as brightly as molten iron. It costs the character a Fatigue Level to use this power, which has a Penetration of 10. (Base 5, +1 Conc, +1 Part. Excess spell levels used for Penetration)''

|}
''ons. He convinces his brethren that the magi are in league with Fetillusclaviceps, and the zmajevi are actually suffering the oppressions of human wizards. Perhaps Abur-ciocîrlie has framed a few magi from Kezdö Válasz (see Chapter 7) by slaying a nearby zmaj and putting its treasure in one of the covenant’s abandoned forts. Roused by injustice, the band attacks a nearby target, breaking the peace and dragging the entire dragon species to war. • Decebalus’ Treasury. After years of searching, the lost treasury of Decebalus is discovered, either by a zmaj or an aždaja, or both at the same time. Overcome by greed, the dragons break the truce and begin fighting. The winner sits atop the gold, and the loser makes it known to his kin that the victor has snatched the gold from him. Other dragons rise up, pilfering nearby hoards of gold in a frenzy of financial gain. Fetillusclaviceps must reinforce the truce lest it completely fall apart. Mindful of the priests of the Cult of Mercury, many centuries ago, he implores the local Hermetic magi to assist him. • What’s Good for the Neighbors is Good for Us. Infernal forces are on the rise in the nearby Theban Tribunal, ever since the demon Akgah sundered of the Divine forces protecting Constantinople (see The Sundered Eagle, page 139). Viewing the scene from his mountain aerie, a powerful aždaje named Rabidanadas thinks he could manage the same in Transylvania. Since the Roman dragon hasn’t been seen in 50 years, Rabidanadas hopes to coerce a band of aždaje into testing their strength against the Kingdom of Bulgaria. • We Have Been Deceived! It is discovered, either by dragons or magi, that Fetillusclaviceps is long gone, and that the last several sightings have been a magus masquerading as the Roman dragon to keep the peace. If this ruse is discovered by dragons, they instantly react violently, each hoping for new territory and plunder taken from the Order of Hermes. Once one group falls out of line, the rest follow, and dragon raids evolve into raging war. If a magus discovers this ruse, the threat is even more dangerous. Pretending to be the dragon could be construed''
''as breaking the Oath of Hermes, since the magus is dealing with Infernal beasts in a fashion. How does House Tremere respond? If they stop the ruse, it will only be a matter of time before the dragons test their boundaries, most likely initiated by the aždaje. • The Smallest Spark. Magi of the oppida Old Histria and Shrouded Bay regularly interact with the zmajevi living on Histria. Dragons can be as moody and childish as elder magi, tainted by selfcenteredness. The Tytalus maga Leontine Adiran (see Chapter 5) often debates with an ancient zmaj, honing her skills as the pair argues the finer points of philosophical ethics. The pair meets at an old stone column, which has lost its significance except to them. A heady disagreement over Aristotle’s Golden Mean leads to angry words and name-calling, with neither party willing to apologize. While the two are not speaking, the column goes missing. Maga blames zmaj and zmaj blames maga. A face-to-face shouting match leads to blows with both vowing vengeance. The zmaj brings his fellow zmajevi into the feud and attacks Old Histria. Excited by the violence, nearby dragons attack both dragon and human targets. Endemic violence spreads throughout the dragons’ realms.''
''The best trigger involves your player characters, somehow, as a result of one of their actions. It would be a paradoxical narrative if even the smallest action prompted such a monstrous response. Legal charges could also be brought against the player characters, especially if they purposefully''
''endangered the Order with their actions. Some suggestions are:''
''• Rescue the Maiden. A wealthy boyar’s daughter has been stolen by a dragon, and the noble wants the woman back. He asks a pair of Tremere magi for aid, and they readily deprive the dragon of the maiden. The dragon, positive that his defeat could not have been engineered by mere mortals, complains to a more powerful dragon, which uses this event to convince other zmajevi that the wizards are more nefarious then the dragons once thought. This could easily lead into the “Abur-ciocîrlie returns” idea mentioned previously. • Evicting a Zmaj. A group of magi covet a zmaj’s magic regio, and force the beast from it. Knowing that it can’t beat the magi alone, the deposed zmaj assembles a team of zmajevi to reclaim the regio. They succeed, and their success entices other like-minded zmajevi to rail against the social framework. Initially led by less powerful zmajevi, this is the equivalent of a peasants’ revolt within the realm of the dragons.''
''The Situations: The War Rages''
''As the storyguide, you could create a single plot for your players to follow, but you might be safer creating situations for the players, rather than forcing them along a single course of action. Each situation should be more dramatic than the previous, escalating the damage caused by the war''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Dragon-Riding Storm Wizard==

''There is a legend in Transylvania that says thunderstorms are caused by a dragon-riding wizard, the right-hand man of the devil. According to the tale, 10 students are chosen periodically and taught the secrets of nature and magic at the Scholomance, a school hidden in the mountains (see Chapter 7). Nine of the scholars return to mankind, but the tenth is kept by the devil, given an aždaja to ride, and assists the fiend in making bad weather.''
''Obviously this is a conglomeration of several facts of the Tribunal. There is a magical school called the Scholomance, and dragons certainly exist, as do storm wizards. Did House Tremere train a magus who was already a storm wizard? Hermetic magic can accomplish many things. Is a magus assuming the shape of a giant, riding a controlled dragon, and causing storms? Or has the devil tainted a magus and granted him Infernal gifts so that he will lead the aždaje against the Order of Hermes?''

|}
''and threatening targets to which the players’ characters are personally attached. The war should move closer to home as it progresses, keeping in mind that “home” doesn’t necessarily mean the player characters’ covenant, although it could. It might also mean the Tribunal or the entire Order. Whatever the group most prizes should be the ultimate stake in the war against the dragons. Dragons fill the night sky. Fire falls like rain. Targets shift: first dragon, then human and perhaps magi, and the collateral damage is extensive. Old grudges rekindle and swarms of dragons happily divert from their enemy to inflict damage on an old foe. This is the time to create epic tales; this is the time for the player characters to be heroes. Those who fail will be forgotten, their bones lost where they fell. Some suggested situations are:''
''• Sound the Alarm! As the war begins, the Tribunal rushes to mobilize. Word has to be taken to the five covenants, which can presumably dispense this information to the various oppida. The Prima must be informed, as must the leading Quaesitors, Redcaps, and hoplites. If the characters are bringing the news, stories might involve negotiating some of the more difficult terrain of the Tribunal, finding absent magi, or convincing a doubting superior that this is more than a mere dragon raid. If the characters are receiving the news, they must settle their current business quickly and prepare for action, gathering allies, equipment, and supplies. • Rush to the Front. While other Houses might procrastinate on how to proceed, House Tremere snaps into action. Depending on their rank and Tribunal privilege, the player characters either receive orders or give them. Forces must be marshalled and allocated. The site where the initial conflagration occurred needs to be investigated. Because most Transylvania dragons can fly, the actual front might be difficult to ascertain. Both aždaje and zmajevi prefer mountains, so threats will likely come from the many mountain chains that surround the Tribunal. Several oppida and covenants are located in the mountains, and the defenses of Laniena, Scholomance, Coeris, and Lycaneon must be seen to immediately.''
''• The First Assault. The magi of Scholomance want to relocate the apprentices and mundane students, temporarily ceasing studies until the actual scope of the dragons’ conflict can be ascertained. The player characters are charged with leading a group of scholars through the Bran Pass and south into Bulgaria. Midway through the journey, a group of aždaje attacks a smaller group of zmajevi in a daring aerial dogfight. The combatants continue the battle on the ground, as the magi rush the scholars to safety. The aždaje have the upper hand. Can the magi tell the zmajevi from the aždaje? If they can, do they assist the Magically aligned dragons? • Consequential Confrontations. The dragon war upsets the entire supernatural landscape of the Tribunal, killing several faerie creatures and driving others out of their usual habitats. A trio of giants arrives at a heavily populated village and begins destroying the buildings, their rage spilling out in uncontained mayhem. Must the player characters kill the giants or are there other ways to deal with the situation? • A City in Flames. A wave of zmajevi descends on the royal city of Veszprém, their single purpose to burn it to the ground. The college library houses a large collection of important books and manuscripts, and more than one magus has benefited by the serendipitous inspection (or clandestine borrowing) of a text. Losing the library would be a great blow to the scholars of the Order. Saving the town would certainly impress the bishop, and ultimately the king. What do the player characters do as the rain of fire begins? • The First to Fall. As the war progresses, it is likely that one of the Tribunal’s oppida will be destroyed. Such an event will surely heighten the tension in your saga. Destroying an oppidum offstage might increase the drama, but putting the player characters in the flaming edifice itself surely will. Which oppidum or covenant would most affect your troupe were it destroyed? How do the player characters react when it becomes obvious that they cannot prevent the oppidum from falling? For example, the oppidum of Laniena is discovered by an aždaja, who is repelled''
''but not slain. Several hunters were killed in the attack, and the remaining magi fear that a second assault will be their end. The player characters arrive to help a few hours before 25 aždaje are sighted in the sky. Lexander decides to abandon Laniena, saving as much as he can, and asks the player characters to help. • Returning the Blow. An airy nest is discovered, temporary home to over 50 zmajevi, who use the mountain sight to bivouac between assaults. The player characters have enough time and available resources to stage an attack, if they desire it. Using the assembled forces of the Tribunal, can the players deliver a resounding blow to the enemy? • Containing the Conflagration. As the war escalates, the very real possibly exists that the dragons will war outside the boundaries of the Transylvanian Tribunal, heading into the Greater Alps, Novgorod, Theban, and Roman Tribunals. House Tremere has staked its reputation, even its very existence on preventing such an event from destroying the Order of Hermes. Can they confine the war to the mountain ranges that circle the Transylvanian Tribunal?''
''The Climax: Renewed Peace, Annihilation, or Worse''
''Initially targeting each other, the dragons inflict unimaginable damage on the countryside, leveling cities, toppling kingdoms, and forever changing the face of the Tribunal. Whole areas are ravaged and scorched earth runs for miles. Rivers boil and vanish, and lakes are swallowed whole by the sundered earth. The dragon war is an event unlike any Mythic Europe has seen. It is a cataclysm of biblical proportions. The climax to this war must be spectacular, and a satisfying climax is one that the players engineer. As storyguide, you do not need to know how the dragon war will resolve when it begins. You might hope for a particular resolution, but let events unfold as they will. Regardless of the player characters’ positions in the Tribunal, your players will determine how the war ends through their characters’ actions. Aggressive characters will resolve the war differently from investigative or''
''defensive characters. In any event, let the player characters’ actions influence the war’s outcome. Some suggestions, direct counters to the suggestions found earlier when starting the war, are:''
''• Destroy Veles. To successfully defeat the ancient dragon-god, the magi must first suppress the worship of Perun that has arisen in the Slavic villages. Christian forces exist to aid the characters, predominately armed knights, but the magi might desire a more peaceful approach. Having the magi acting as missionaries is a rare story arc. • Drive off Abur-ciocîrlie. The magi must convince the assembled zmajevi that Abur-ciocîrlie lied, that the Order is not the enemy. They move to reinstate the Pax Draconis by a single magus challenging Abur-ciocîrlie to a duel. If no magus exists who can best the worm, the player characters must find Fetillusclaviceps and convince him to challenge his old rival. • An Equal Share. The magi decide to equally distribute the wealth of Decebalus’ treasury, devising a scheme in which more powerful dragons receive a larger share, but every dragon gets something. This will only likely work with zmajevi, since offering this bargain to aždaje is dealing with Infernal beings. The magi may have to unite with the zmajevi and destroy every aždaja they find. Even if this is agreed to, the magi must devise a method of enforcing the redistribution of wealth. • Helping Others Helps Us. To truly defeat Rabidanadas, the magi of Transylvania must go to Thebes to defeat the demon Akgah. Only then can the dragon war be ended. Theban magi will naturally suspect foul play, but if successful, Transylvanian magi could heal a wound that has festered between the Tribunals for centuries. Doing so might clean House Tremere of its tarnish, allowing others to finally forgive the House for its tumultuous past. • The Culprit Among Us. It is true: a Hermetic magus had been posing as Fetillusclaviceps for the past century. A renowned Flambeau seeker, he had tracked the elder dragon to its lair and killed the beast, only to realize that, by killing the''
''Roman dragon, he had sundered the Pax Draconis. Rather than admit his error, he began the subterfuge. This could have several outcomes. Continuing the impersonation is likely a Hermetic crime, and if caught, House Tremere will lose the rest of its credibility. Can the magi of House Tremere find a replacement for the Roman dragon? • Find the Column. The war can only be settled if the original instigators, Leontine Adiran and her zmaj debate partner, can settle their feud. Characters discover that Dominic of Tytalus, the aedile of Coeris, stole the column to purposefully start the confrontation. Did he intentionally start the war, or was it a simple test of his protégé that spiraled out of control? Dominic is gone, either killed or missing, and the column cannot be found. Perhaps it is hidden deep within Coeris, although the player characters’ superiors don’t believe it is. The characters must clandestinely foil the covenant’s many defenses to retrieve the column (see Legends of Hermes, Chapter 5).''

==Giants and their Mothers==

''Giants are notorious faeries who prowl the countryside — kidnapping princesses, waylaying travelers, and stealing horses. Unlike other areas of Mythic Europe, where giants are often portrayed as being as stupid as they are strong, Transylvanian giants are more refined. Interchangeably called ogres, giants carry arms and armor similar to knights, build holdings and homesteads, raise and even ride horses. They can be witty and charming, if it is their wish, but many would rather be bashing heads than bandying words. To accommodate the different roles they play, many Transylvanian giants can change Size, ranging from Size +2 to +5, with some growing even larger. Because their armor and weapons are an integral part of their role, these also change in size relative to their bearer. A giant will often shrink to his smallest Size (+2) to ride a horse and then grow''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Nicoleta, a Giant’s Mother==

''Nicoleta exists as a shadowy figure living deep within the forest, known by the local populace but routinely avoided. She goads her son into action, prompting him to inflict whatever evils he can on his human neighbors. Because of her horrendous wrath, people prefer to suffer her son’s sporadic intrusions instead of permanently removing him and angering her. While the giant’s behavior might be bad, his mother’s will undoubtedly be worse. Like giants, no two giant’s mothers are identical. Nicoleta is just an example. Giant’s mothers are forces of destruction; other common powers include breathing fire, creating earthquakes, becoming poisonous clouds of gas, and throwing mountains. A giant’s mother is not necessarily giant-sized, and many are the same size as mundane mothers.''
''Faerie Might: 30 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre –3, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Monstrous Appearance; Greater Power; Faerie Speech, Humanoid Faerie, Large, Lesser Power; Incognizant, Traditional Ward (edelweiss); Slow Might Recovery''
''Personality Traits: Vengeful +3, Greedy +2, Suspicious +2 Combat: Brawl: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +12, Damage +1 Brawl (as a wheel): Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +12, Damage +6 Brawl (as a flaming wheel): Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +12, Damage +26 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Pretenses: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Athletics 4 (running), Bargain 2 (hiring servants), Brawl 8 (fist), Folk Ken 2 (detecting lies), Hunt 4 (tracking), Profession: Rancher 4 (breeding horses) Powers: Assume the Shape of the Spinning Wheel, 4 points, Init –2, Corpus: This power allows the giant’s mother to turn into a large wagon wheel. She uses this form to chase down enemies and crush them. The stone-like wheel adds +5 to the giant’s mother Brawl Attack Damage. (Base 25, +2 Sun, +1 Rego requisite, +1 Terram requisite. Excess spell levels convert to 1 mastery point which reduces the point cost.)''
''A Mother’s Fury, 1 point, Init +2, Ignem: The giant’s mother can surround herself in fire, which does +20 damage to those she touches. This power must penetrate any Magic Resistance the target has to damage it. (Base 15, +2 Sun) Vis: 6 pawns of Ignem vis located in Nicoleta’s two tusks. Appearance: Wire-haired and filthy, her skin covered in warts and boils, Nicoleta is tall and lean. Two huge boar tusks project from either side of her mouth. She dresses in a dirty patterned dress and soiled apron.''
''Nicoleta lives on her horse farm, hidden in a remote valley of the Madara Plateau (see Chapter 3), where she raises horses and watches her son. One of her horses is a faerie horse, which she keeps filthy and underfed to disguise its uniqueness. Stories typically involve a character trying to win the faerie horse from her, by doing complicated chores that can’t be completed without supernatural aid or magical powers. She will also appear if her son is threatened, defeated, or disparaged. When aroused to violence, Nicoleta uses her powers to transform into a terrifying flaming wheel, speedy and deadly, and tries to run over her opponents.''

==Georghe and Ladislau, a Pair of Giant Brothers==

''Neighbors to their mother, Georghe and Ladislau have built adjacent homesteads that share a common border. Over the years, each has tried to push the fence that separates the two homesteads onto the other’s land, hoping that the other brother won’t notice. When he invariably does, the two come to blows. Because they are evenly matched, these quarrels can last for hours with neither gaining the upper hand.''
''Faerie Might: 15 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int –2, Per –1, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +11, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik –5 Size: +4 Virtues and Flaws: Negative Reaction; Focus Power, Huge (x3); Humanoid Faerie; Incognizant, Traditional Ward (places) Personality Traits: Warlike +3, Persistent +2''
''Combat: Long Sword & Heater Shield (on foot): Init –3, Attack +13, Defense +6, Damage +17 Long Sword & Heater Shield (on horseback): Init –3, Attack +15, Defense +8, Damage +17 Lance & Heater Shield (on horseback): Init –3, Attack +14, Defense +4, Damage +16 Soak: +12 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: (Size +2) –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22– 28), Dead (29+) Wound Penalties: (Size +4) –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Pretenses: Area Lore 2 (hidden pastures), Animal Handling 2 (draft horses), Ride 2 (charging), Single Weapon 6 (long sword), [Local] Living Language 4 (bragging)''
''Powers: Shrinking, 3 points, Init x, Corpus: The giant can shrink to Size +2 or grow to Size +4 in an instant. Cost: 20 spell levels (Base 3, +3 Size increase) Equipment: Full chainmail, heater shield, long sword Vis: 3 pawns of Corpus vis (each ear and nose) Appearance: The giant brothers look like a pair of local knights, magnified in size. Their armor is unadorned but well-kept.''
''The brothers’ farms are adjacent to a road. When the pair battle, they inevitably fight in the road, especially if one notices an approaching traveler. The battle will obstruct travel, and after a few minutes of traded blows, one of the giants asks the traveler to intervene, either to settle the disagreement between them or to pick up arms against the requestor’s brother.''

|}
''seconds before combat. Changing shape is as common as changing size, and many giants have powers that turn them into other things. Some giants can shapechange into pear trees, others into brooks, and others into poisonous flowers. While inconspicuous, such changes are dangerous for the giant, who can be hurt when in a different form.''

==Giants’ Mothers==

''While giants are individuals, each has one thing in common besides his immense size: a mother. A giant’s mother is always a sorceress, and invariably smarter than her son. She selects the home, manages the household and the herd of horses, guides her son’s decisions, and wrathfully pursues those who best him. While a faerie giant can exist within his role perfectly well without a mother, a faerie giant mother is often more reliant on a son to manage, cajole, and verbally abuse. Though she doesn’t draw vitality from the giant son, the faerie gives her role significant meaning. If she loses her son, she searches for another, becoming either listless and withdrawn, or irritable and violent, until she adopts a new one. Another strikingly odd commonality in giants is hair growing inside the mouth, often under the tongue but sometimes also inside the cheeks. The strange physical deformity is hereditary, and those with giant blood also have hair growing under the tongue. The hair does not impair the giantblooded speaker’s speech and can be hard to notice in conversation.''

==Faerie Horses==

''A faerie horse exists to serve a hero as a mount, martial companion, and sage advisor. It also knows that it must spend a period of time imprisoned on a giant’s mother’s ranch, kept filthy and underfed so as to disguise its faerie nature. The typical story of a faerie horse is to be discovered and saved from a horse farm, serve a hero with advice and as a means of transportation, and finally leave the hero moments before his final victory, so that the hero can achieve his goal on his own. An alternative version of this story finds the fa''

==Costache, a Captive Giant==

''Another common giant is the one trapped in a king’s palace, locked away in a room that guests are forbidden to enter, and contained in a spike-lined wooden barrel bound with three iron chains. Easy to initially capture, Costache is difficult to keep. He has a magical power that makes residents of the palace curious, and he thrives on the anxiety and wonder produced by those who know they are investigating where they shouldn’t.''
''Faerie Might: 20 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre –3, Com –3, Str +7, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik –6 Size: +3 Virtues and Flaws: Negative Reaction; Greater Power (2), Huge (x2); Humanoid Faerie; Incognizant, Traditional Ward (iron) Personality Traits: Deceitful +3, Sly +2 Combat: Fist: Init –6, Attack +8, Defense –1, Damage +7 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Pretenses: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 2 (listening), Brawl 4 (fist), Charm 1 (princesses), Folk Ken 3 (guests), Guile 4 (inventing stories), Legerde''
''main 4 (snatching small objects), [Local] Living Language 5 (telling lies), Stealth 4 (sneaking through castles), Survival 1 (forests) Powers: Rousing the Castle’s Curiosity, 4 points, Init –10, Mentem: This power instills a powerful sense of curiosity in all those within the targeted structure. Those affected will prowl and snoop through the structure, investigating every corridor, chamber, and locked door. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +3 Structure) Flee like a Bird, 3 points, Init –9, Auram. This power mimics the Hermetic spell, Wings of the Soaring Wind, allowing Costache to fly out a window once he is released. The Shock of Consequence, 4 points, Init –10, Corpus. This power paralyzes a group of up to 10 people. Costache invokes this power as soon as he is free, freezing his rescuers into immobility while he chastises them and steals something valuable as they stand helpless. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group) Vis: 4 pawns of Mentem vis in his tongue Appearance: Costache looks like a large, captive prince or nobleman, with tattered robes, tussled hair, and dirty skin. His eyes nearly sparkle with treachery and malevolence. A few moments after being freed, Costache’s clothes regain a like-new appearance, and he suddenly becomes well-groomed and clean.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Fet-Frumos, a Faerie Horse==

''Faerie Might: 10 (Auram) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –2 Size: +2 Virtues and Flaws: Positive Folktales; Highly Cognizant, Huge; Great Strength, Increased Characteristics (x2), Faerie Speech, Focus Power Personality Traits: Patient +3, Wise +2, Compassionate to Humans +1 Combat: Kick: Init 0, Attack +9, Defense +4, Damage +5 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Pretenses: Athletics 6 (flying), Brawl 5''
''(kick), Faerie Lore 4 (giant kin), (Local Area) Lore 4 (faerie homes) Powers: Flight, 2 points, constant, Auram: The faerie horse can fly, as described in Realms of Power: Faerie, page 62. Equipment: The faerie horse is equipped with appropriate tack and harness. Vis: Two pawns of Auram vis, one in each front hoof. Appearance: Fet-Frumos has two modes of appearance. While captured, he looks like an old, dirty, rundown nag, swaybacked and bowlegged. Once rescued and when serving a hero, Fet-Frumos looks like a healthy, young horse, with a coat so well-groomed that it actually shines. Although smaller than a warhorse, it can easily transport an armored knight.''

|}
''erie horse imprisoned as a giant’s mount, but still waiting to be saved by the hero. A faerie horse tends to be one of the more cognizant faeries living in the Tribunal, and most are fully aware of the role they play in human interactions and their means of gaining vitality. His awareness of his role and the ways it interplays with other faeries, especially giants and their mothers, allows the faerie horse a degree of foresight that mundane characters may interpret as divination. He cannot see into the future, but because he is more cognizant than other participating faeries, he knows that a giant will try to steal a maiden and, once thwarted, his mother will attack the maiden’s castle. The faerie horse only has this insight when involved with other faeries; he will have no idea or helpful information if an Infernal dragon attacks the castle.''

==Vampires==

''All the lands of the Transylvanian Tribunal are infested with vampires. Every district has been affected by vampires at some time, and most people know of someone who has been the victim of a vampire. The vampire seems to be a Slavic phenomenon, although stories have permeated westwards into the Rhine Tribunal, and southwards into the Theban Tribunal. Other creatures may drain the life from the living, but a vampire specifically takes the form of a known deceased individual within or just outside a particular community. Contrary to Slavic belief (see insert), a vampire is not normally the spirit of the deceased giving horrible life to his corpse. Instead, a vam''
''pire is a form of faerie that derives vitality both from blood and from the fear its presence engenders. Every time that a vampire is repulsed by the superstitious rituals of a peasant, the vampire’s story is enforced, and it gains vitality. The vampire kills in various ways, chiefly by drinking or sucking blood from its victim’s heart or veins, or by devouring their flesh and choking them to death. More rarely, they draw out the breath from their lungs and suffocate them. Every vampire is unique. While the tales about vampires often give them similar properties and powers — thus the regional variants in vampires discussed later — each one has its own set of rituals for preventing it from forming in the first place, and for laying it to rest for good, and its own set of limitations and vulnerabilities. This has lead to a wealth of conflicting and contradictory information among humans about the best way to thwart and destroy vampires.''

==Becoming a Vampire==

''Various superstitions suggest who will become a vampire after death. The most''
''commonly held beliefs are that the following people or circumstances create a vampire: any corpse that an animal jumps over or alights upon; any corpse that has a living person’s shadow fall upon it; the victim of any untimely death, including those killed by natural forces, by animals, or by other men; anyone who dies a bloodless death (such as drowning); anyone unbaptized or excommunicated at time of death; anyone who committed a mortal sin in life; anyone born during the Unclean Days (the 12 Days of Christmas); any witch or sorcerer; anyone born with a caul; where there are seven children of the same sex, the seventh child; any child of a vampire. None of these situations actually causes a person to become a vampire per se. Instead, they attract the attention of a faerie who takes on the role of vampire if the correct propitiatory rites are not performed. A correctly performed Church burial (or indeed, a burial by any Divinely ordained religion) does not necessarily prevent the formation of a vampire, unless this is one of the specific conditions of the faerie who has been attracted by the death. Folklore has a whole host of precautions that are supposed to prevent a vampire attack; these rituals in truth feed the faerie vitality, causing it to become sated and to move on. If the rites are not performed correctly, the vampire instead seeks vitality from the villagers in the form of blood and fear. It takes the form of the corpse during the day (having disposed of the real corpse) and often resides in its coffin, but at night prowls about in a number of different forms. If the vampire is hunted and slain in the correct manner, its need for vitality is satiated, and it moves on, perhaps reforming in a different shape in another district. If the rituals surrounding its destruction are''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Slavic Belief==

''The Slavic pagan belief is that the spirit is quite distinct from the body, and is free to leave even during life. Issuing forth from a sleeping person, the spirit takes the shape of a bird, butterfly, snake, mouse, point of light, or may enter a tree. Such a spirit is called a zduhacz or a sjenovik (shadow). The spirit of any domesticated animal might become zduhacz. A witch''
''sends out her spirit as a vjedogonja, a bloodsucking spirit.These spirits assemble on mountain tops where they battle, the victors bringing rich harvests to their countrymen (Night Battles are described in Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 6). The battles between the zduhaczs of land and sea are noted for their impact: the former brings drought, and the latter rain.''

|}

==Story Seed: The Lady and the Vampire==

''A young man and woman fall in love, but because the man is poor, his paramour’s parents refuse him permission to marry, and he kills himself in shame. The youth subsequently rises as a vampire, and while the young lady adored the man in life, she is repelled by the vampire. She asks the characters for help and they might seem to slay it quite easily; however, the wom''
''an becomes sick as her vitality is drained each night. Simply slaying a vampire with magic or weapons cannot sate a vampire’s thirst for vitality; only the correct rites can do that. If efforts to destroy the creature are made, but without the correct rites, only temporary surcease is gained; another faerie will take the form of the corpse and continue its depredations.''
''botched, then its need for vitality keeps it in the region, and its presence attracts further vampire-forming faeries who attach themselves to the first vampire’s victims. For more information on faeries and their need for vitality, see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 12.''
''Precautions Against Vampires''
''The living often take precautions to prevent a recent corpse becoming a vampire. This is usually only done if there is real danger of the corpse walking; for example, if he was known to an evil man or a witch, or if he died from disease. Every region has its own method of attempting to prevent the creation of a vampire; for more information, see Hunting Vampires (Chapter 9, Hedge Traditions). For each vampire, choose one to three items from the following list: these precautions, and these alone, will prevent the formation of a vampire. If more than one is chosen, all precautions must be met.''
''• Cut off the heels. • Hamstring the corpse. • Place its head under the knees. • Turn the body face down. • Drive thorns or nails into the soles of the feet. • Place a nail or thorn under the tongue. • Fill the mouth with garlic and salt. • Drive thorns under the fingernails. • Put small stones in the ears, mouth, and navel. • Bind the hands behind the back. • Put a red hot needle through the heart of the corpse. • Drive a nail into the place where the corpse’s head lay. • Scatter the place of death with millet, red thread, or thorns. • Place millet in the coffin. • Bind the coffin with wild roses or ivy. • Stick nine distaffs in the soil above the coffin. • Bury the body in a swamp or forest. • Bury the body at a crossroads. • Drive an iron spike through the head. • Drive an aspen or hawthorn stake through the navel, the heart, and/or the behind. • Pile stones on the grave.''

==The Vampire Life Cycle==

''A common motif among the vampires in the Transylvanian Tribunal is that they go through a series of phases in their existence. Each of these phases has different characteristics, but each one retains the essential vampiric feature of feeding on the vitality of others to their detriment. Immediately after death, a vampire takes an invisible, ghostlike form (the zduhacz) and haunts the family of the deceased. After seven days (or forty), the vampire takes on a physical but shapeless form called a gadja. If it survives 40 days as a gadja, then it takes on the human form of the deceased and is called a platenik. The vampire’s principle prey is now humans, starting with its own family. The longer the vampire exists, the more powerful it becomes until, after seven years, it moves out of its home district and sets up residence in a distant region. This vampire (a kukudhi) masquerades as a human, taking up a trade, and settling down with a family, all the time making nocturnal forays for human blood. These vampires have lost the traditional vulnerability''
''to daylight, although they are hurt by direct sunlight and tend to stay inside during the day. Any children arising from an old vampire such as this become dhampirs (see Chapter 9, Hedge Traditions). Vampires are most active between St Andrew’s Eve (November 30th) and St George’s Eve (April 23rd); and this is when most dhampirs are sired.''

==Creating a Vampire Character==

''Vampires are intended as storyguide characters. There is no sympathy for the vampire in Mythic Europe. They are ravening beasts, driven to cause illness and death by their very nature, and this single-mindedness makes them inappropriate as player characters. Players wanting a character who is damned by a dark fate should probably look elsewhere. This being said, there is some small scope for an unusual character in the form of a kukudhi vampire (see The Vampire Life Cycle, earlier). Such vampires can become sufficiently selfaware that they might make suitable player''
''characters; however, these vampires are usually among the strongest of their kind, and would fit best in a relatively high-power saga, among older magi.''
''Vampiric Virtues, Flaws, and Powers''
''All vampires share a few common characteristics that define their status as vampires. See Realms of Power: Faerie for more details on creating faerie characters. All vampires must take a Virtue or Flaw that represents their physical form, a Virtue or Flaw that describes their level of cognizance (most vampires are Incognizant), and a Virtue or Flaw representing their social interaction with humans (many vampires have the Negative Reaction or Monstrous Appearance Flaws). All vampires have the Feast of the Dead Virtue that allows them to obtain vitality from human life, and have a Traditional Ward of sunlight which causes them to take damage if exposed to the light of day. Finally, all vampires have the Sap the Life Lesser Power (see insert). Common Virtues for vampires include those on the following lists. See Realms of Power: Faerie, Chapter 3, for details of the Virtues and Flaws marked with an asterisk.''
''Common Virtues • Greater Immunity to Edged Weapons (Major, Supernatural) • Time of Power: New Moon (Minor, Supernatural)* • Tough''
''Common Flaws • Might Recovery Requires Vitality (Major, Supernatural)* • Restricted Might: Saturday (Major, Supernatural)* • Sovereign Ward: those born on Saturdays (Major, Supernatural)* • Vulnerable to Garlic or Thorns (Minor, Supernatural)*''
''Limitations''
''In the same way that there are rituals that ward off the formation of a vampire by providing it vitality, there are also rituals that can repel the powers and the physicality of the vampire for the same reason. By obeying the dictates of its own stories by limiting itself by these traditional wards, the faerie is unconsciously feeding on the vitality generated by those rituals. For each vampire, pick one to three of the following limitations; the vampire has to obey these rules:''
''• Cannot leave resting place during the day (almost universal). • Cannot spend Might points on a Saturday (very common). • Cannot harm anyone born on a Saturday (very common). • Cannot cross a line of thorns. • Cannot leave millet uncounted. • Cannot cross running water. • Repulsed by garlic; cannot pass a barrier warded with garlic, or attack a person or animal smeared in garlic. • Repulsed by black hawthorn. • Cannot pass a tangle of red thread. • Cannot approach when you are telling stories. • Cannot ask the same question three times. • Repelled by the Cross and by prayers.''
''Ways to Kill a Vampire''
''As described in Chapter 9: Hedge Traditions, each vampire has a number of folk rituals which, if correctly performed, sates the vampire for good. These rituals make good the lack of the vitality that caused the vampire to form in the first place, and following its death, the faerie reforms into a completely different creature somewhere distant from its place of death. Failure to kill''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Powers for Vampires==

''This insert describes some powers commonly possessed by vampires. They commonly cause disease and weakness, or call down natural disasters on a region. Many of these powers may also be designed to affect livestock.''
''Lesser Powers''
''Each Lesser Power Virtue is a Minor Virtue that grants 25 levels of powers. To convert these Lesser Powers into Greater Powers (Major Virtues that grant 50 levels of powers), halve the Might cost and the penalty to Initiative.''
''Cause Drowsiness ReMe 15 3 points, Init Qik – 6, Mentem''
''R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind Allows the faerie to cause a human it touches to fall asleep. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun),''
''Eidolon CrIm 20 4 points, Init Qik – 8, Imaginem R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This power creates an illusory form that is visible and audible. The creature can create a single form for each version of this power they possess. The image can move and speak as directed by the faerie, and lasts until the faerie has no further use for it. (Base 2, +2 move at direction, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 intricacy)''
''Sap the Life PeCo 15 3 points, Init Qik – 6, Corpus R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind This power causes the target to weaken and lose the vitality that sustains life. This is treated as a disease that initially inflicts a Light Wound; in addition, the victim loses two Fatigue levels which cannot be regained until the disease has abated. Every week, the afflicted character can make a Disease Recovery Roll; he must beat an Ease Factor of 12 to remain stable, and a 18 to improve. If you are using the disease rules of Art & Academe, this is a Serious disease of Severity 15. Either Faerie Lore or Medicine may be used to treat the effects. (Base 10, +1 Touch)''

|}
''the vampire with the correct rituals allows the faerie to reform its glamour after a matter of days or weeks, and continue to prey on the region’s inhabitants. For each vampire, pick a method of dispatch that results in permanent death:''
''• Exhume the body on a Saturday (or Sunday). • Women or virgins exhume the body. • Burn the heart and/or liver. • Cut the heart and/or liver to pieces with a scythe. • Throw the heart and/or liver into running water. • Immolate the body. • Decapitate the body. • Drive a hawthorn (or aspen) stake through the navel (or heart).''

==Vampire Bestiary==

''The following section describes character templates for various vampires, built with''
''the minimum number of Virtues to describe their basic powers. The storyguide should customize these characters with extra Virtues, Flaws, and powers. None of these characters are designed as player characters, so they do not need to be balanced in terms of Virtues and Flaws.''
''Vampires That Take Human Form''
''The human-like vampire is the most common variety in the region. It takes the form of a recently deceased individual, and''
''is usually seen wrapped in a burial shroud. Of particular note are the kukudhi, who are human infiltrators; having lost their vulnerability to direct sunlight, they live among mankind. The humanoid vampire is known by a number of different terms throughout the different people of the Balkans: platenik or ubour among Bulgarians; drakus among the Thracians of the Rhodopes; moroi by the Vlachs (pl. moroii; fem. sing. moroaica; fem. pl. moroaice); oiocoi by the Transylvanians; lampir among Bosnians; and upir among the Ruthenian people.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Powers for Vampires (cont’d)==

''Focus Powers''
''Focus Powers are Major Virtues.''
''Ghost Touch (Focus Power) ReTe 25 Variable cost, Init Qik – 5, Terram R: Varies, D: Varies, T: Varies Moves objects that are not held by another or fastened down. For 1 Might point, a maximum of 5 lbs. can be moved; every additional Might point doubles this weight limit. If the item is hurled with force, the spirit requires the Thrown Weapons Ability, and the item inflicts +5 damage per Might point spent. If the faerie has a Martial Ability, it can enter combat with an object when using this power (most weapons weigh less than 10 lbs.), and uses its Characteristics to calculate combat totals as normal. All physical attacks with this power need to penetrate Magic Resistance. The power lasts until the object is released by the faerie.''
''Personal Powers''
''Personal Powers are Minor Virtues, and each allows a character to buy 25 levels of effects.''
''Flight ReFo 15 2 points, constant, appropriate Form R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind The character is capable of flight. He may use the Athletics skill to simulate difficult maneuvers, but may not engage in combat while flying incredibly swiftly. The faerie may not fly when heavily encumbered, or with a passenger of its Size or more, unless assisted by another faerie that shares the load. (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 constant. This base is deliberately lower than Hermetic magic might suggest.)''
''Invisibility PeIm 15 2 points, Init –2, Imaginem''
''R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind A personal version of Veil of Invisibility (ArM5, page 146) (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 for moving image)''
''Silent Motion PeIm 10 1 point, constant, Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind Allows the character to move without making a noise. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 constant)''
''Supernatural Agility ReCo 25 3 points, constant, appropriate Form R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind This power allows the character to perform minor supernatural feats when using its Athletics Pretense. These include swiftly scaling walls, leaping from the ground onto the back of a galloping horse, and dropping great distances to the ground without harm. (Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 constant)''

==Magi as Vampire Slayers==

''Vampires are attracted to the psychic wounds of a community that has suffered some trauma, and destroying them is not a simple task of just destroying the faerie. Even if a magus extracts the vis from the corpse (killing it permanently), another''
''vampire is attracted by the community’s wound and takes up where the other left off. The rituals associated with slaying a vampire heal the wound correctly and sate the vampire with vitality, driving it off once and for all.''

|}
''Vampires That Take Bestial Form''
''Like the humanoid vampires, bestial vampires go by a variety of different names. In Slavic areas, they are called vukodlaci, although this term is also used for non-vampire werewolves (see later). Other names include: farkaskoldus to Hungarians, blaut''
''sauger among the Transylvanian Saxons, and pricolici to Vlachs. Bestial vampires are covered in thick gray fur, and have sharp teeth and claws, and appear wolf-like (or more rarely, bearlike or dragon-like), although walking on two legs. Despite their immense strength, bestial vampires have no bones, and are able to squeeze themselves through the tiniest''
''cracks in pursuit of a meal. A common cause of this form of vampirism is being killed by a wolf, or eating from a beast killed by one. Violent crimes such as murder also attract the vukodlaci.''
''Vampires That Take Ghostly Form''
''Slavic vampires often go through an incorporeal form called a zduhacz, or sjenovik (shadow), before adopting material form; other vampires only manifest in this form. They haunt the family of the deceased, breaking crockery and making a nuisance of themselves. These incorporeal vampires can visit people in their dreams, and may engender children with a widow. They often reveal themselves as glowing points of light, or perhaps burning shafts. Among Hungarians, these vampires are called luderc. The nekrstenik or ustrel is a vampire attracted to the death of an unbaptized child, and is a particular threat to newborn children and young mothers. The sjanka forms from the blood of a man killed by a knife. Finally, the ljugat is a more benign vampire that feeds only briefly from its victims.''
''Miscellaneous Vampires''
''Although the human-shaped, bestial, and incorporeal vampires are the most common types, there are a few other varieties of vampires found in the Transylvanian Tribunal.''
''Formless Vampires These vampires are a stage in the lifecycle of the human-shaped vampires (see The Vampire Life Cycle, earlier). The gadja is a swollen bag of skin and hair, filled with jelly-like blood. Instead of a nose, it has a sharp snout through which it sucks blood, mostly from animals. In this form, it moves principally by rolling, and is sometimes described as like an ox’s head. Formless vampires are particularly susceptible to thorns and piercing weapons, which inflict terrible damage upon them.''
''Vampire Animals Vampires are not always human. Venomous snakes are the animals most likely to become vampires. Stallions, lambs, and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Human-like Vampire==

''Faerie Might: 15 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int –2, Per 0, Pre –3, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Negative Reaction; Feast of the Dead, Humanoid Faerie, Increased Faerie Might x2, Lesser Powers; Incognizant, Traditional Ward Personality Traits: Hungry +3 Combat: Teeth: Init +3, Attack +8 Defense +10, Damage +4 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore 3 (livestock), Ath''
''letics 5 (climbing), Brawl 5 (teeth), Charm 3 (bereaved family), Living Language 5 (local dialect), Stealth 5 (village streets) Powers: Sap the Life, 2 points, Init Qik –2, Corpus: See earlier for details. PeCo 15 (base 10, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost, +1 Init) Vis: 2 pawns of Corpus, in grave dirt Appearance: A recently deceased human corpse, often with red eyes and fingernails. Vampires usually wear burial shrouds, or else go naked.''
''This vampire has 5 points of Virtues and 3 points of Flaws.''

==Bestial Vampire==

''Faerie Might: 20 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –3, Per +2, Pre –3, Com –1, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Increased Faerie Might; Feast of the Dead, Hybrid Form, Lesser Powers, Personal Power (Transform into Animal), Tough; Monstrous Appearance; Incognizant, Traditional Ward (sunlight) Personality Traits: Hungry +6 Combat: Claws: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +10, Damage +7 Soak: +9 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: (Area) Lore 3 (livestock), Athletics 5 (running), Awareness 3 (movement), Brawl 5 (claws), Hunt 5 (human prey), Stealth 5 (woods) Powers:''
''Contort the Boneless Body, 2 points, Init –1, Animal: The vampire can squash its boneless body through the tiniest gaps, or hide in a seemingly impossible small space. MuAn 10 (Base 5, +1 Conc) Lesser Power (10 levels) Transform into Animal, 1 point, Init –1, Animal: Transforms the faerie into wolf form. MuCo(An) 20 (Base 10, +2 Sun) Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost) Sap the Life, 3 points, Init –2, Corpus: See earlier for details. PeCo 15 (Base 10, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (15 levels) Vis: Two pawns of Animal, in eyes Appearance: An horrific hybrid between wolf and man, this hairy creature stands on two legs, yet has the claws and muzzle of an immense wolf. Huge, human-like eyes stare crazily from its snarling face.''
''This vampire has 8 points of Virtues and 5 points of Flaws.''

==Incorporeal Vampire==

''Faerie Might: 5 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com 0, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Feast of the Dead, Focus Power (Ghost Touch), Lesser Power (Eidolon), Lesser Power (Vampiric Touch), Second Sight; Intangible Flesh; Freshly Sprung, Incognizant, Negative Reaction, Traditional Ward Personality Traits: Malicious +3 Combat: Dodge*: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Thrown Knife: Init +2, Attack +5, Defense +6, Damage +7 * Since it is incorporeal, the vampire need''
''not actually avoid physical attacks Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore 3 (village), Awareness 2 (family), Brawl 3 (dodging), Charm 5 (bereaved family), Living Language 5 (local dialect), Second Sight 3 (spirits), Stealth 3 (livestock), Thrown Weapon 3 (knives) Powers: Eidolon, 2 points, Init –2, Imaginem: See earlier for details. CrIm 20 (Base 2, +2 move at direction, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 intricacy) Lesser Power (20 levels, –2 Might cost)''
''Sap the Life, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus: See earlier for details. PeCo 15 (Base 10, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost) Ghost Touch, variable points, Init –3, Terram: See earlier for details. ReTe 25: Focus Power Vis: 1 pawn of Ignem, in item affected by the Ghost Touch power. Appearance: Normally invisible, this vampire can visually manifest as a glowing point of light, or else use its Eidolon power to take the form of the deceased.''
''This vampire has 7 points of Virtues and Flaws.''

==Gadja==

''Faerie Might: 10 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre –3, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex –2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Feast of the Dead, Hybrid Form, Increased Faerie Might, Lesser Power; Monstrous Appearance; Clumsy, Incognizant, Traditional Ward (sunlight), Traditional Ward (thorns) Personality Traits: Hungry +3 Combat: Bite: Init 0, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +4''
''Soak: +3 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore 3 (livestock), Awareness 5 (livestock), Brawl 5 (bite), Concentration 3 (while feeding), Hunt 5 (wounded animals), Stealth 5 (fields) Powers: Calm the Sheep of the Field, 2 points, Init Qik –2, Animal: The gadja can prevent an animal from fleeing as it approaches, allowing it to feed from them. ReAn''
''10 (Base 4, +1 Eye, +1 Conc) Lesser Power (10 levels) Sap the Life, 3 points, Init Qik – 3, Corpus: See earlier for details. PeCo 15 (Base 10, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (15 levels) Vis: Two pawns of Corpus, in the jelly-like blood within the gadja Appearance: A flaccid sack of skin about one pace in diameter. It has a face bearing a sharp snout and a pair of beady eyes.''
''The gadja has 4 points of Virtues and 7 points of Flaws.''

==Vampire Snake==

''Faerie Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –1, Per –2, Pre –5, Com –6, Str –6, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: –3 Virtues and Flaws: Faerie Beast, Feast of the Dead, Lightning Reflexes; Incognizant, Negative Reaction, Traditional Ward (sunlight) Personality Traits: Hostile +2 Combat: Fangs: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +8*,''
''Damage –5 * +6 to Defense against grapple attacks Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Pretenses: Awareness 2 (prey), Brawl 4 (fangs), Hunt 4 (rodents), Stealth 4 (stalking prey), Survival 3 (grassy areas) Powers: Sap the Life, 3 points, Init Qik – 3, Corpus: See earlier for details; except that the''
''vampire snake’s touch inflicts a Medium Wound. PeCo 20 (Base 15, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost) Vis: 1 pawn of Animal, in tongue Appearance: A remarkably large snake, easily two paces long and as thick as a man’s thigh; the vampire snake has red eyes.''
''The vampire snake has 3 points of Virtues and 3 points of Flaws.''

|}
''some other animals can also become vampires, but never dogs or wolves. The same methods that result in human-shaped vampires are capable of generating animal vampires, as well.''
''Vampire Plants Not even plants are immune to vampirism. A plant that has been the cause of a man’s death, or which has grown in soil fertilized by his life’s blood, can become a vampire.''
''Even gourds and melons are at risk, if a careless housewife should keep them too long. People are most at risk from vampire trees. A tree is more susceptible to becoming a vampire if a man was hanged there, particularly if he was a suicide. Thorn trees never become vampires, and are therefore most often used as impromptu gallows.''
''Infernal Vampires''
''Not all vampires are faeries. Sometimes, a demon consumes a corpse, and takes the form of the deceased. These demons are known as the broukolak in Bulgaria, and are the same as the vrykolakas of Greece (see The Sundered Eagle, Chapter 12). The same factors that can lead to a faerie vampire taking over a body can attract the attention of a broukolak, but the most surefire way is to be cursed at the moment of death. Some particularly evil individuals, who die with evil yet to do, may curse themselves as they die in the hope of attracting the attention of a demon. With its ability to blend into society without fear of detection, the broukolak often sets up trade in a nearby village where it will not be recognized. They are fearsome predators, first eating the flesh and drinking the blood of the deceased’s relatives, then ranging further abroad. An area with a broukolak suffers a general decline in health and vitality as it feeds at night on both livestock and on men.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vampire Tree==

''Faerie Might: 10 (Herbam) Characteristics: Cun –3, Per –1, Pre +1, Com –3, Str +10, Sta +5, Dex 0, Qik,–5 Size: +5 Virtues and Flaws: Huge x 4; Feast of the Dead, Lesser Powers, Passes for Plant*; Freshly Sprung x2, Incognizant, Limited Movement**, Traditional Ward (fire) * Equivalent to Passes for Human **	 Realms of Power: Magic, page 42 Personality Traits: Hostile +2 Combat: Branch: Init +5, Attack +9, Defense +2, Damage +12 Grapple: Init +5, Attack +8, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +15 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–10), –3 (11–20), –5 (21–30), Incapacitated (31–40), Dead (41+) Pretenses: Area Lore 3 (fields), Awareness 3 (victims), Brawl 4 (branch), Native Language 5 (local dialect), Leadership 3 (menacing), Stealth 3 (pretending to be a normal tree), Survival 2 (harsh winters)''
''Powers: Sap the Life, 1 point, Init Qik – 3, Corpus: See earlier for details. PeCo 15 (Base 10, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost) Vis: 2 pawns of Herbam, in bark Appearance: This vampire is based on a white willow. It stands about twenty feet tall, and all its branches point upwards — until they lash down in pursuit of blood. Its silver-green leaves are usually spotted with blood, and the ground around its roots is littered with bones. Vampire trees can understand human languages, but cannot speak.''
''A vampire tree can attack as a trained group with up to four limbs simultaneously, and has a +9 Group bonus which it always adds to its Attack. It usually concentrates on one victim at a time, attacking with a grapple and then holding tight. It can use limbs not involved in striking to hold onto grappled victims. Every round it uses another branch to hold onto a victim increases the Grapple Strength (ArM5, page 174) by +5. The vampire tree is not suitable as a player character.''

|}
''Living Vampires''
''The people of the Transylvanian Tribunal often make the distinction between living vampires and dead vampires. Living vampires are witches or sorcerers, who prey on the locals much like the dead vampires. None of the following characters are vampires in the traditional sense; that is, they are humans rather than faeries, and they do not need to drink blood to survive (although some do anyway). When living vampires die, they attract the attention of particularly powerful vampiric faeries.''
''The Strigoi and Vjestitza In Romania, the term strigoi (sing. and pl.; fem. strigoica; fem. pl. strigoice) is the most commonly used word for vampire, but a distinction is made between the strigoi vii (living vampires; sing. strigoi viu), and the strigoi morti (dead vampires). In the Balkans, the vjestitza (pl. vjestitze) is the same as the strigoi viu. The strigoi viu or vjestitza is a witch who leaves her body at night and takes the form of an owl, black hen, a moth, or a fly called a vjedogonja. She enters houses and feeds on the heart-blood of her victims, who are usually children. These witches, who are invariably female, form covens, and a girl can''
''learn to become one by joining the coven. It is said that these witches are the masters of the dead vampires, and meet with them at district boundaries to decide upon their pro''
''gram of evil for the following year. These characters are Nightwalkers (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 6), but they may have other powers. Malicious stri''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Thief’s Valerian==

''There is a weed which grows in Faerie-touched areas of Transylvania, that has heart-shaped yellow leaves that look flecked with blood. Also called jarbe cherului (“key flower”) or irongrass, this strange plant undoes any mundane lock, lifts any mundane bar, and shifts any mundane bolt. To command the Thief’s Valerian, it must be collected at daybreak on all fours; thieves say it sprouts where rainbows touch the earth. The character must cut the ball of his palm, and plant a sprig of the weed into the cut, where it will thrive and grow on his blood. Mundane courts in the Tribunal know the powers of ironweed, and cut the sprigs out if they find them in the hands of criminals. Hermetic magi believe that ironweed is a particularly odd sort of faerie parasite: yet another weird vampire from these lands so rich in them. Some Redcaps have a sprig in their hands, but many oppida forbid it inside the Aegis of the Hearth. Ironweed is Lesser Enchantment Vis (see''
''Realms of Power, Magic, page 120), each sprig containing two pawns of Rego vis. Players should remember that mundane characters who see the sprig act much as if the character had dropped open a bag of housebreaking tools.''
''Thief’s Valerian Sprig of Rego Vis''
''ReHe (Te) 18 Pen 0, 6/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part If implanted in a person’s hand, Thief’s Valerian can open locks, lift door bars and shift bolts at a touch. Every time the faerie plant uses its power, it takes a Long Term Fatigue level from its owner. If the weed is ever removed from its owner’s hand, he suffers a Light Wound, and the sprig loses all powers and vis. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +1 requisite; +3 6/day)''

==Broukolak==

''Order: Vessel of Iniquity Infernal Might: 20 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Shapeshifter; Improved Characteristics, Lightning Reflexes Personality Traits: Hateful +6, Depraved +6 Combat: Grapple: Init +2, Attack +6, Defense +7, Damage +4 Teeth: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +7 Spittle: Init +2, Attack +6, Defense n/a, Damage +10 Soak: +14 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Athletics 10 (leaping), Brawl 5 (grapple), Folk Ken 3 (passing for human), Shapeshifter 3 (at night), Thrown Weapons 5 (spittle) Powers: Form of Wickedness, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 39 Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 39 Contagious Obsession, 1 point per victim, Init 0, Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 39 Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Fear. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 32. Burning Spittle, 0 points, Init +2, Ignem: The spittle of a broukolak is liquid fire, and it can expel it up to 5 paces. If it hits and penetrates Magic Resistance, the spittle inflicts +10 damage; if it is parried, it eats through any object it touches, rendering that object useless. Weakness: Protected Group (those born''
''on a Saturday). Vis: 4 pawns, in teeth Appearance: The broukolak is indistinguishable from ordinary people in appearance, until it reveals its powers, at which point it takes on its true form. They have shiny black skin and are hunchbacked, with black hands and long nails. Their faces are blood-red and peeling, their teeth are like those of a cat or wolf, and they have wild hair and beards. With their Shapeshifter Ability, they usually take the form of cats, goats, and owls.''
''Broukolaci usually take victims who are on their own, locking them in a grapple before biting them. They occasionally keep their victims alive and feed from them night after night by inflicting scuffle damage rather than normal damage.''

|}
''goi vii could be designed as infernal witches, employing maleficia to work their evil, or the Goetic Arts to control dead vampires (see Realms of Power: The Infernal). Alternatively, they could be faerie wizards and use the Ars Fabulosa (Realms of Power: Faerie) to summon and captivate vampires for good or ill.''
''The Varcolac and Vukodlak Certain people can take the form of wolves during their lifetimes. These are called varcolaci by Romanians, or vukodlaci or kudlaci among Slavs. They are also considered to be vampires of a sort, and referred to in the same terms. A child who is born with a blood-red or black caul, feet-first, or with teeth becomes a varcolac; a man may also become one through magic. Some varcolaci can become hens, horses, cows, dogs, or cats instead of wolves, but the wolf form is the most common. While all varcolaci are treated with a great deal of suspicion, not all of them are evil. Some of them form “wolf brotherhoods:” secret societies dedicated to protecting communities and hunting vampires — the wolf is well-known as an enemy of the vampire, and these man-wolves are doubly so. Other varcolaci use their magic for mischief. At night, they attack cattle, suck the milk from mares and sheep, strangle horses, cause cows to die of plague, and occasionally attack humans. The varcolac is also credited with eating the moon during eclipses, which are certainly powerful times for these werewolves. A varcolac character has either the Shapeshifter Virtue if he was born a werewolf, or the Skinchanger Virtue if he has learned to change shape. Some varcolaci are also Lycanthropes. Like the strigoi, the kudlaci who cause mischief and attack livestock''
''are Nightwalkers, and are battled in their phantasm form by the kresnici, a rival tradition who seek to protect the community (see Chapter 9). When they die, a varcolac — regardless of good or evil deeds during life — becomes a bestial vampire (see earlier).''
''Divine Werewolves Most tales of werewolves center on rural villages and remote outposts of civilization, but not every werewolf is a living vampire stalking his fellow villagers. Some stories relate''
''that kings have the power to turn into wolves and other creatures, a living example of God’s promise that man should have dominance over the beasts of the wood and field. In Mythic Europe, kings crowned by the religious representatives of both the Roman and Greek Church receive a Magic Resistance of 10 (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 43). If that king is of Slavic, Magyar, or Vlach blood, he also receives the free Supernatural Major Virtue: Shapeshifter. The allowable forms for this Virtue are wolf, lion, and dragon; the Divine origin of this power permits the dragon shape despite the usual restrictions on the Shapeshifter Ability. Stefan II of Serbia has this power and can change into a dragon when he so desires.''

==Vilas (White Ladies)==

''Most of the communities in this Tribunal tell stories of beautiful faerie women, dressed in pale clothes, or naked. These faeries all have similar names, but play different roles''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: House Bjornaer as the Enemy==

''House Bjornaer are resolutely opposed to shapeshifters (see Chapter 1 of Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults), particularly those who are organized into cults or brotherhoods. They are intolerant of varcolaci, whose brotherhoods strongly resemble the Infernal cult that they hate and fear. They may even be hostile to the shapeshifting kings of the Transylvanian Tribunal, although this enmity may be mollified if the Divine provenance of this power is''
''demonstrated. A Bjornaer magus player character is commanded by his elders to see to the extermination of a local wolf brotherhood. However, the brotherhood is responsible for protecting the community from vampires controlled by a strigoi viu. The character must weigh up his conscience versus his loyalty. This story could also be run the other way around, with a player character as a member of the brotherhood.''

==Generic Minor Vila==

''This weak vila is suitable for stories with grogs, or other characters lacking magical powers or Resistance. She is suitable as a player character, but will be more useful in most covenants if given additional powers and a larger Might pool to support them. Any added Virtues need to be balanced with Flaws. The powers listed in this section are Greater Powers unless otherwise noted, and are purchased as Major Virtues. Most Greater Powers can be transformed into Lesser Powers, which are Minor Virtues. Notes on doing this are in Realms of Power: Faerie on page 57. Troupes preferring speed over accuracy should double the Might cost and quadruple the Initiative penalty of the powers given here. Powers noted as Personal affect only the faerie, and are Minor Virtues. As an antagonist, augment these statistics using the suggestions for customization by role, given later. NPC faeries do not need balanced Virtues and Flaws.''
''Faerie Might: 5 (Usually Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 3, Com 0, Str 1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Passes for Human: Faerie Sight, Human Form, Incognizant, Traditional Ward (suggestions given later). Combat: Claws: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +7, Damage +3 Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Athletics 3 (dance), Awareness 3 (mortals), Brawl 3 (claws), Carouse 3 (getting mortals to drink), Charm 6 (preferred type of mortal), Folk Ken 3 (festivals), Music 5 (singing). Powers: As per role, defined later Vis: 1 pawn Corpus, a long blonde hair Appearance: A beautiful maiden, either naked or dressed in white clothes.''

|}
''in each community. Storyguides designing vilas should use the statistics for a generic faerie woman, and then tailor them to the role that the particular vila plays. Vampiric vilas should be created using the suggestions in the Vampire section.''

==Wards==

''Vilas often have a Sovereign Ward Flaw for a strand of their own hair. Vilas encountering a character with a strand of their hair revert to their basic form (which is sometimes human, and sometimes animal) and cannot cause that human harm, whether with their powers or through indirect means. The hair of a vila is often a Minor External Vis source. (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 50). This means that the vila cannot truly die while its hair survives, and if lost, over time the hair can reassemble matter for the vila’s body. Some powerful vilas have the Residual Power Virtue (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 51) which causes their hair to be lost or carried off if they are defeated, to ensure it remains safe. Traditional Wards for vilas include food, special cakes, and ribbons, These offerings can be left near a particular house to protect it, or placed just outside the homes of vilas, to protect communities. These offerings are made at the verges of woodlands, the edges of roads, the banks of rivers, and the mouths of wells.''

==Powers Found In Many Roles==

''Five powers seem to be common among vilas, regardless of the role they are currently playing.''
''Shapeshifter''
''Many vilas can take animal shape, or are faerie animals that take human shape. Most vilas have only a single alternate form, but even within single regions, it is unremarkable to find vilas with differing animal shapes. The most common shapes are falcon, horse, serpent, swan, and wolf. Faeries retain the power of speech in animal form. Personal shapeshifting powers include:''
''Transform into Animal: 2 points, Init –2, Animal: Transforms the character into a specified land animal of human size or smaller for Sun duration Transform into Animal: 3 points, Init –3, Animal: Transforms the character into a large animal (current Size +1) for Sun duration. Transform into Animal: 3 points: Init –3, Animal: Transforms the character into a specified land animal of human size or smaller for Until duration. Transform into Bird or Fish: 3 points, Init –3, Animal: Transforms the character into a specified bird or fish of human size or smaller for Sun duration Transform into Bird or Fish: 4 points, Init –4, Animal: Transforms the character into a specified bird or fish of human size or smaller for Until duration Transform into Human costs the same as the inverse power. A faerie crow transforming into a human uses more Might than a fox that does so.''
''Enthralling Voice''
''The beautiful voice of vilas often encourages, or forces, humans to dance. The strength of this effect varies, and can be simulated by the following powers:''
''Allure: 1 point, Init –1, Mentem: Makes the faerie supernaturally attractive. Grants a +3 bonus on all rolls that convince or impress others. Enthralling Sound: 3 points, Init –3, Mentem: Allows a faerie to create, or intensify, a particular emotion in a group of people for Sun Duration. A Personality trait roll against an Ease Factor of 9 allows a character to ignore this effect. Enthrallment: 4 points, Init –4, Mentem: Allows a faerie to take complete control of the mind of a human for Sun Duration. Requires initial eye contact. The faerie still sings while making the eye contact, because folklore says the song is the transmission mechanism, but that’s stage dressing. Guide: 3 points, Init –3, Mentem: Subtly guides a group of people to an action that the faerie desires, for Sun duration. This power acts like a version of the Common Sense Virtue that gives the character advice which suits the vila. Again, the vila sings when using this power, for folkloric aptness.''
''Kiss of Forgetfulness: 4 points, Init –4, Mentem: Causes a mortal to forget her life until she sees a particular object, or class of object, associated with her home. This effect has an Until Duration, and requires physical contact at inception. Despite the name, holding hands while dancing works perfectly well. The vila will sing to the character at some point, because her role says she should do so when using this power. Steal Judgment: 2 points, Init –2, Mentem: Causes a human to believe any lie the faerie tells. Can be resisted with an Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 6 for implausible lies.''
''Blessing Dance''
''Some vilas provide magical powers to mortals who dance with them, or complete other tests. The following powers are used to grant these blessings:''
''Grant (Major Virtue), 10 points, Init (Qik – 20), Vim: Grants a Major Virtue either permanently, which drains the character’s Might pool permanently, or until a condition is met. This is a Ritual Power and is purchased as a Major Virtue. Grant (Minor Virtue), 5 points, Init (Qik – 10), Vim: Grants a Minor Virtue either permanently, which drains the character’s Might pool permanently, or until a condition is met. This is a Ritual Power and is purchased as a Major Virtue. Grant Puissance in (Ability), 2 points, Init –2, Vim: Bestows the faerie power of pretending to have an Ability. For every added point spent, a group can be granted +1 on all rolls in a certain situation (combat or court, for example), or one character can be given +3 on a particular Total or roll (Soak or Carouse, for example.) This effect has Sun Duration, and the faerie only recovers its Might once the effects are withdrawn.''
''Cursing Dance''
''Some vilas lure victims into their dances. The most common cursed dances cause exhaustion, loss of time, loss of memory, or death. These can be simulated using the En''
''thralling Voice powers earlier. One added power is also commonly found, and is unusual:''
''Craft Magical Trinket: 10/15 points, Init 0, as per Target. The circles where vilas dance must not be stepped upon, or curses fall upon the trespassers. This power, which makes the circle a kind of magic item, costs 10 points if the curse is a Minor Flaw, and 15 points if it is a Major Flaw.''
''Spirit Away''
''Many vilas draw humans into the Faerie realms.''
''Spirit Away: Variable. This is the power that allows faeries to assist the passage of mortals to their Realm. It is discussed at length in Chapter 2 of Realms of Power: Faerie. Troupes not using these rules should just assume the attempt succeeds when it suits the story.''

==Role-Specific Powers==

''Vilas for specific story roles can be created with the following modifications. If the vila is a player character, added Virtues must be balanced with Flaws. Points for added Pretenses can be gained by selecting the Ostentatious Major Virtue or Pretentious Minor Virtue. The first adds 10 times the average age of the PC magi points to the character’s pool of pretense points. The second adds 5 times the average age of the PC magi points.''
''Captured Wife''
''Vilas who change shape, particularly from bird to human, can be captured by hiding their animal skins or feathers. These faerie brides always find their lost items eventually, or are released by the husband breaking a condition made upon marriage. Their children have strong faerie blood and sometimes receive visits from their mothers, but these vilas seem to lack any sort of maternal skill. The animal skins can be designed mechanically as the prop for the Skinchanger virtue, as External Vis Source, or as a Sov''
''ereign Ward (while you have the skin, your wife cannot hurt you by leaving).''
''Cloud or Storm Maiden''
''In many areas, vilas are ghostly women associated with clouds. In some areas, they are believed to lure travelers astray and torment them with wild weather. Powers suiting this role include:''
''Flight, 2 points, constant, usually Corpus: The character can fly. Storms (Focus power), by Magnitude, Init – (Qik – 5), Auram: The character has a range of weather-related powers, simulating all Hermetic weather spells of level 25 or less. Guide, described in the Enthralling Voice section, earlier, but here used to cause people to become lost.''
''Cursed Lover''
''Some vilas play a role that warns frivolous girls that they are doomed to repeatedly fall in love with a mortal who dies. The vila is not aware that she is a sort of vampire, feeding on the deaths of her admirers. The death is caused by subconscious use of one of the following powers:''
''Pine Away, 3 points, Init –3, Corpus: Target gradually loses the will to live. Simulated as a major disease with an Ease Factor of 9 that causes a Light Wound. Faerie Lore or Medicine may be used to treat the effects. Craft Magical Trinket: As per the Cursing Dance section, earlier. The favor the vila gives to her lover causes a fatal accident. Each vila has a single, repeated motif for the manner of death of her beau, such as his horse stumbling when at full gallop, or his boat being swamped by a rogue wave.''
''Huntress''
''Vila huntresses ride deer or horses, and kill with their arrows. They are particularly likely to slay those who break oaths to other humans. To the generic vila earlier, add:''
''Bow 5 (mortals) Ride 5 (horse or deer as appropriate) Virtues which increase Characteristics, Attack, Damage, or Defense scores. Soak of up to +6, for armor. Combat: Bow: Init –1, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +7 Shake the Earth: 3 points, Init –3, Terram: This power causes the ground for 100 paces to violently shake. Characters fall unless they make a Quickness – Encumbrance stress roll against an Ease Factor of 10, modified as follows: +2 standing still, +2 on solid stone, +0 moving slowly or on earth, –2 running, –6 on a narrow bridge. (As Earth Shock, in ArM5, page 56.) Note that the faerie is unaffected by her own power.''
''Temptress''
''A faerie who steals young men away into the depths of the woods or waters.''
''Allure: as per Enthralling Voice Section. Illusory Home, 4 points, Init –4, Imaginem: Makes a place look, sound, smell, and feel like a suitable place for the faerie’s role. Pine away: As described in the Cursed Lover section, earlier.''
''Water Maiden''
''Spirits of drowned maidens, or faeries pretending to be such, are common in this Tribunal’s folklore. Powers suiting this role include:''
''Illusory Home, as described in Temptress, earlier. Kiss of the Mermaid, 3 points, Init –3, Imaginem: Allows the recipient of the kiss to breathe water until he or she next steps on dry land.''
''Weaver Witch''
''Some vilas seem to create soldiers using their looms. This isn’t really a power; it just creates opportunities for other faeries to join the story. These vilas appear to create an infantryman when pushing the shuttle through their loom to the right, and a cavalryman if they push it to the left.''
''Woodland Maiden''
''Vilas as maidens of the woods seem similar to the nymphs of other areas of Mythic Europe. Additional powers suiting this role include:''
''Extend Glamor: 0 points, constant, Mentem: The faerie is aware of all activity in her place of power. The more powerful the faerie, the larger this area can be, and the more vis she can force it to produce each year, as per Realms of Power: Faerie page 61. This is a personal power. Guide: Described in the Enthralling Voice section earlier, but used to make people lose their way, or draw them toward the faerie. Manifestation (Focus power):, by Magnitude, Init –(Qik – 5): Allows the faerie to simulate any Creo Animal, Rego Animal, Creo Herbam or Rego Herbam spell of level 25 or less in the area of its glamor. Transform Victim Into (animal): 3 points, Init –3,''
''Animal: Turns a character who can hear the voice of the vila into a specified animal for Sun duration. Transform Victim into (object): 5 points, Init –5, as per object: Turns character who can hear the vila’s voice into the specified object for Sun Duration. Some vilas instead have a version of this power with Touch Range and Until Duration. This version has the same cost and Initiative as earlier. Note that a faerie with extended glamour has extended Touch.''
''Wise Woman''
''Vilas are also sometimes confused with folk witches. Those performing this role usually have the ability to foretell the future and heal.''
''Healing (Focus power): by Magnitude, Init – (Qik – 5): Allows the faerie to simulate''
''any Hermetic healing spell up to level 25. Prophecy: Faeries can’t really see the future. Some have Virtues which allow them to pretend to, while others use a mixture of obfuscation and spying to pass themselves off as oracles. Some vilas with this power need to keep their eyes propped open with iron bars weighing 300 pounds.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ecology of Transylvanian Faeries==


===Giants Have Daughters Who Are Vilas.===


===Vilas Have Daughters Who Are Human, Vilas, Or Witches===


===Witches Have Daughters Who Are Witches, Giants Or Dragons.===


|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
