
[|
''The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came in to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men that were of old, the men of renown.''
''— Genesis 6:4''
''In the days before the flood, beings of great power walked the earth, sharing wisdom with humanity and taking human women as their wives. The offspring of these unions were the gigantic Nephilim, who are described in detail in Realms of Power: The Divine. But who were the fathers of the Nephilim, and what became of their teachings?''
''Genesis describes these beings only as b’nai elohim, the sons of God. Prior to the fifth century, the Church’s interpretation was that these beings were angels. Indeed, b’nai elohim is only ever used in the Old Testament to refer to angels. This view caused problems for the Church, however. Celsus and Julian the Apostate both used it to attack the philosophical underpinnings of Christianity, arguing that the divine could never take on material form without being defiled. The Church also became concerned about the worship of angels, which St. Paul warned against in his letter to the Colossians. Finally, the idea that angels had fathered children was potentially at odds with Jesus’s words in the Gospel of Matthew, where he says, “For in the resurrection they''
''shall neither marry nor be married, but shall be as the angels of God in heaven.” As a result, a different interpretation arose, found first in the Chronicle of Julius Africanus. He argued that the “sons of God” to which Genesis referred were the descendants of Seth, the third son of Adam and Eve, who were righteous and godly, while the “daughters of men” were the descendants of Cain, the first murderer. This “Sethite interpretation” found favor with the Church, and in the 13th century it is the orthodox view.''
''And it came to pass when the children of men had multiplied that in those days were born''
''unto them beautiful and comely daughters. And the angels, the children of heaven, saw and lusted after them, and said to one another: ‘Come, let us choose us wives from among the children of men and beget us children.’''
''— I Enoch 6:1-3a''
''The belief that the fathers of the Nephilim were angels did not simply disappear. This view was supported by a number of texts cited by the early Church Fathers. Some factions, however, held that these noncanonical works were “contaminated by Jews and heretics,” and after the Council of Laodicea in 364 AD they were excluded from the Christian canon. (The Council also explicitly condemned the worship of angels as a form of idolatry.) The single passage in Genesis remained the Church’s only acknowledgment of the Nephilim, and even it was obscured, as the Greek and Latin versions of the Old Testament described them merely as “giants.” Other groups did preserve this knowledge in numerous texts, including the work that came to be known as the First Book of Enoch. Allegedly written by the grandfather of Noah, who ascended into Heaven and became the Archangel Metatron, I Enoch contains five separate sections dealing with different subjects. The first section, however, called the Book of the Watchers, provides considerably more detail about the fathers of the Nephilim than does Genesis. It is''

=Grigori Magic=


==But the Grigori Were Angels!==

''Despite the widespread acceptance of the Sethite interpretation in Mythic Europe, the fathers of the Nephilim were in fact angels. This does not mean, however, that orthodox clergy take kindly to magi suggesting that they were anything other than the descendants of Seth. It also means that most post-fifth century Church histories and commentaries do not contain useful information about the celestial nature of the Grigori, making the process of finding their legacy a more daunting task.''

|]
''explicit in describing them as angels, and it calls this rebellious group the Watchers or, to use the Greek term, the Grigori.''
''And all the others together with them took unto themselves wives, and each chose for himself one, and they began to go in unto them and to defile themselves with them, and they taught them charms and enchantments, and the cutting of roots, and made them acquainted with plants... And Azael taught men to make swords, and knives, and shields, and breastplates, and made known to them the metals of the earth and the art of working them, and bracelets, and ornaments, and the use of antimony, and the beautifying of the eyelids, and all kinds of costly stones, and all coloring tinctures. And there arose much godlessness, and they committed fornication, and they were led astray, and became corrupt in all their ways. Semyaza taught enchantments, and root-cuttings, Armaros the resolving of enchantments, Baraqijal taught astrology, Kokabel the constellations, Ezeqeel the knowledge of the clouds, Araqiel the signs of the earth, Shamsiel the signs of the sun, and Sariel the course of the moon. And as men perished, they cried, and their cry went up to heaven ...''
''— I Enoch 7:1–2, 8:1–3''
''In Enoch’s account, the Grigori did far more than father children. They taught their wives arts and sciences; these teachings then spread to the rest of humanity. The Watchers instructed the people in agriculture and astronomy, about stone cutting and blacksmithing, and with this knowledge, humanity thrived. Most importantly, the Watchers taught them the secrets of magic.''
''Many people were not ready for such power, however, and they used their magic for evil. The students of the Grigori grew powerful and built up great empires. They forgot the ways of God, and they used their powers for sinful and unrighteous pur''
''poses. It was also at this time that the gigantic Nephilim, with their insatiable appetites, began to lay waste to the earth. Enoch wrote that the whole world was filled with blood and unrighteousness and that the earth itself cried out because of what the Grigori had done.''
''These cries did not go unheeded, and the Watchers could not escape God’s punishment forever. God instructed Noah to build the ark in preparation for the flood. He stripped the Watchers of their place in Heaven and commanded the Heavenly Host to seize the leaders of the Grigori and bind them until the day of judgment. Some of the Watchers, including their leader Semyaza, rebelled and became demons. When Noah was prepared, God sent the flood to cleanse the earth of the wickedness that had been wrought by Watchers. In the deluge, the evil and unrighteousness spread by the Watchers’ students and offspring were washed away. None who knew the secrets of the Grigori survived, and only the pair of righteous Nephilim who stowed away on the Ark were saved. With their leaders bound and their students destroyed, the Grigori and their magic passed from the world of men.''

==The Secrets of the Grigori==

''The precise nature of the magic the Grigori taught to humanity is unknown, but strands of the tradition have influenced Hermetic magic. Indeed, the magic that the Grigori taught their students was not much different from what the Order of Hermes practices. It is this similarity that makes the secrets of the Grigori''
''so valuable to the Seekers. Each of the chiefs of the Watchers taught mastery over one Technique and two Forms. Those who learned from these leaders were able to blend these Arts together in way that is now lost.''
''Grigori Magic consists of a number different Supernatural Virtues called Secrets, each named for one of the Grigori who taught it. Araquiel’s Secret, for example, gives a magus mastery over the Arts of Creo, Corpus, and Terram. The angels and their students, however, made no distinction between these three Arts, using vis for each of them interchangeably. A magus who knew Araquiel’s Secret could use Terram vis as though it were Creo or Corpus vis, and vice versa. In addition, a magus casting a spell that used one of these Arts that included either of the other two Arts as requisites could ignore these requisites.''
''The drawback of Grigori Magic since the flood is that is it prone to both Divine and Infernal interference. Anyone who uses vis through any of the Secrets in either a Divine or Infernal aura must roll double the usual number of botch dice for the vis. Similarly, a botch for a spell that uses a Secret to ignore requisites also doubles its normal botch dice in these auras.''
''Grigori Magic may be intriguing to a magus, as it can form the basis of some intriguing original research, the end result of which might be on par with Bonisagus’s discovery of the Parma Magica. If Grigori Magic could be integrated with Hermetic theory, it could potentially break the Limit of Vis.''
''The first step toward integration is using the Insight gained from Grigori sources to create a non-Hermetic effect as described in the Introduction. This should be something that allows different Arts to be used interchangeably and is a Muto Vim effect. The''

[|
''following is an example of a spell that could be investigated with Insight into Grigori Magic.''

===Harnessing the Essential Power (Form)===

''MuVi Gen R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind You cast this spell as another spell of a level less than this one is cast. The targeted spell, which would normally use vis of any other type, may instead use vis of the specified Form. There are ten versions of Harnessing The Essential Power, one for each Hermetic Form. This spell never requires vis, even if its level would normally require it to be cast as a Ritual.''
''(Base effect, +1 Touch) A magus may also wish to transform a Grigori Secret from a Supernatural Virtue into a Hermetic Virtue, called a Legacy. This qualifies as a Major Breakthrough, requiring 45 breakthrough points. Again, the appropriate Arts are Muto and Vim. If the magus performing the research actually possesses any of the Secrets as Supernatural Virtues, he gains one extra breakthrough point per season.''
''Once the Major Breakthrough is reached, the magus may teach others the Virtue, which has had the taint of the Grigori removed from it.''
''If the magus wishes to break the Limit of Vis, it requires a Hermetic Breakthrough with 60 breakthrough points. Again, if the magus possesses any one of the Grigori Secret or Legacy Virtues, he gains an extra breakthrough point each season of research. If this Breakthrough succeeds, then vis of any Art may be used''
''for vis of any other Art. Hermetic magic will be forever changed.''

===Araquiel’s Secret===

''Minor, Supernatural (Divine) Some say that what the Grigori taught their students was the basis of Hermetic magic. Sadly, as there are no living practitioners of these arts, it is difficult to say with certainty. There are definitely links between the two, however, as this Virtue demonstrates. Araquiel’s Secret allows anyone who possesses it and who can use the Arts of Creo, Corpus, and Terram to use vis for any of these Arts interchangeably. When using vis in this way in either a Divine or Infernal aura, however, the wielder must roll double the usual number of botch dice. Araquiel’s Secret also allows the possessor to ignore Creo, Corpus, or Terram requisites for any spell that uses another of these three Arts.''

===Araquiel’s Legacy===

''Minor, Hermetic Any magus who possess this Virtue may used Creo, Corpus, and Herbam vis interchangeably. Araquiel’s Legacy also allows the possessor to ignore Creo, Corpus, or Terram requisites for any spell that uses another of these three Arts.''

==Finding the Magic of the Grigori==

''While much of what the Watchers brought to earth was washed away in the flood, several means to learn their secrets remain. A curious magus has several options for locating the heritage of the Grigori.''

==The Chiefs of Ten and their Secrets==

''The Book of the Watchers gives the names of the 19 Grigori “chiefs of ten.” Each of these leaders had stewardship over ten other Watchers and could impart one of the Secrets of Grigori Magic. The Book of the Watchers only describes the teachings of nine of these leaders. The Arts covered by each of these Watchers’ Secrets are as follows.''
''Araqiel: Creo, Terram, Corpus Armaros: Rego, Imaginem, Vim Azael: Perdo, Terram, Imaginem Baraqijal & Kokabel: Intellego,''
''Mentem, Imaginem Ezeqeel: Muto, Aquam, Auram Sariel: Perdo, Mentem, Ignem Semyaza: Creo, Corpus, Herbam Shamsiel: Rego, Ignem, Vim''
''The Secrets taught by the other ten leaders are uncertain. Their names, as given in the Book of Watchers, are Rameel, Tamlel, Ramlel, Danel, Batarel, Ananel, Zaqiel, Satarel, Turel, and Jomjael.''
''Each of the Grigori Supernatural Virtues and their associated Hermetic Virtues works the same way, substituting the single Technique and pair of Forms those Virtues cover. The Virtues based on the teachings of Araquiel are provided, below, as templates.''
''This chapter provides several suggestions of ways that magi might learn the some of the Secrets of the Watchers, but this list is by no means exhaustive. Storyguides are encouraged to invent alternative means of acquiring them, as well as to determine the fates of the “lost” Secrets.''

|]
''Ancient Magic The Lost Book of the Watchers''
''While the Church excluded I Enoch from its canon, this does not mean that it disappeared entirely. A number of Christian historians continued to consult non-canonical literature, especially in their attempts to document archaic history. Quotations from I Enoch, the Book of Jubilees, the Apocalypse of Moses, and the Life of Adam abound in the works of Julius Africanus, Eusebius, and Georgius Syncellus. Historians often saw these works as filling in the details left out by Genesis, and while they cautioned their readers not to read the works in their entirety, they felt no compunction about quoting them, albeit with a heavy dose of their own interpretation.''
''These histories provide the first step in unlocking the secrets of the Grigori. Although the Grigori are not mentioned by name in Genesis, as we have already seen, the Nephilim are. This passing reference may pique the curiosity of a magus, and although learning more about the fathers of the Nephilim may provide difficult, the Christian chroniclers can provide a starting point. The story of Nephilim is told in greater detail in I Enoch, but locating the full account proves difficult. Although commonly cited by early Christian writers, I Enoch was lost to Europe in the ninth century. Fragments of it do remain, preserved in the works of early Christian chroniclers. The largest set of quotations may be found in the Chronography of Georgius Syncellus, a ninth century Byzantine monk who compiled a history of the world from creation to the reign of Diocletian. Syncellus had access to a fragment of I Enoch commonly called the Book of the Watchers, and his work contains all of the quo''
''tations from I Enoch included in this chapter.''
''Many of these Alexandrine and Byzantine historians subscribed to Sethite interpretation of Genesis 6:4, and their discussions of the Watchers reflect this. A small group of historians, however, called the Logothete School, drew on a much older set of documents that explicitly discusses the angelic nature of the Grigori, and through the works of these authors, including Leo the Grammarian, the legends of the Watchers were kept alive. The Syriac chroniclers, unlike their Byzantine brethren, also did not cling to the Sethite view. The 12th century chronicle of Michael Syrus,''
''for example, explicitly affirms the angelic nature of the Watchers and discusses the kingdom they founded, based around Mount Hermon. Thus, despite the best efforts of the Church, the truth about the Grigori persists.''
''Perhaps the most useful source of information about the Grigori is The Enigma of the Sons of God, a work in two books written in the late tenth century by St. Nerius. (See Realms of Power: The Divine, page 91 for more on St. Nerius.) The first book contains extensive quotations from the Book of Watchers, as well as St. Nerius’s observations on the nature and history of the Grigori. Saint Nerius expresses some confusion at the prevalence of''

[|
''Tracking down the lost Book of the Watchers likely requires a substantial research. Storyguides can give characters a bonus to their Intelligence + Ability rolls to discover a particular fact according to the research rules presented on page 98 of Covenants. Troupes looking for a more in-depth treatment for extended fact-based research and library usage may use the following rules. They may be particularly appropriate for Ease Factors over 18.''
''Characters wishing to answer a single fact-based question may declare that they are spending a season on library consultation. During library consultation a magus can consult a number of books on the relevant ability up to his Intelligence + Artes Liberales per season, getting Quality experience points from each, but only for answering this question. A magus may consult either tractatus or summae. Summae level limits do not apply for the first season for each question. At the end of the season, the magus rolls Intelligence plus the''
''temporarily boosted Ability against the Ease Factor of the question. Failure indicates that the answer has not yet been found, and the magus may spend future seasons in library consultation, using either the same books or different ones. (Tractatus may be used multiple times.) A botch gives the character the wrong answer. There is no limit to the number of seasons a magus may spend consulting. The temporary experience points go away if the magus spends more than four seasons not consulting, and any other research of any type or lab work makes these experience points go away. A magus may avoid the loss in these two situations by spending a single season preparing a set of library notes. If these notes are reviewed when consultation resumes, the temporary experience points return. Only the magus who prepared them can use the library notes in this way; to everyone else, they are useless. A magus performing library consultation gains Exposure in either Artes Liberales or the Ability in question.''

==Library Consultation==

''the Sethite interpretation, pointing out the works of the Logothetes and questioning why, if the “sons of God” were merely the descendants of Seth, that their children should be monstrous. (St. Nerius suggested that the prevalence of the Sethite interpretation could be due to demonic influence as the fallen Grigori, now the Dukes of the Deluders, attempted to obscure their own origins.) His book, written in Latin, argues convincingly against the Sethite view and acts as a tractatus on Dominion Lore with Quality 8. Saint Nerius also makes references to a number of topics that he says he will address in the second half of his work. Copies of this first book are common among the libraries of the Order.''
''The second book contains the only known complete copy of the Book of the Watchers. Combined with St. Nerius’ marginalia and notes on the nature of Grigori magi, it functions as source of Insight for integrating Grigori Magic with Hermetic theory, as described in the Introduction. This volume also relates many of the legends about relics of the Watchers and their fate, as described in the following sections. This book is substantially harder to find than the first. Only three copies are known to have existed, and while the Great Library at Durenmar used to possess one, it disappeared sometime around the middle of the 12th century. The locations of all three copies are uncertain.''

==The Legacy of the Grigori==

''In the twenty-ninth jubilee, in the first week, in the beginning thereof Arpachshad took to himself a wife and her name was Rasu’eja, the daughter of Susan, the daughter of Elam, and she bare him a son in the third year in this''
''week, and he called his name Kainam. And the son grew, and his father taught him writing, and he went to seek for himself a place where he might seize for himself a city. And he found a writing which former generations had carved on the rock, and he read what was thereon, and he transcribed it and sinned owing to it; for it contained the teaching of the Watchers in accordance with which they used to observe the omens of the sun and moon and stars in all the signs of heaven.''
''— Jubilees 8:1–4''
''The Book of the Watchers is not the only artifact that remains as a testament to the Grigori’s teachings. Although their students perished in the flood, some of their works remain.''
''In the Hebrew Apocrypha, the Book of Jubilees describes how Kainam, father of the Chaldeans, found the Stelae of the Watchers, several stone obelisks that contained much of the lost wisdom of the Grigori. It is from''

|]
''these writings that much of the Book of the Watchers comes, and they contained far more about the nature of Grigori magic than do the fragments that have survived in Christian chronicles.''
''Saint Nerius’s second book gives a full account of this story as well as noting that several legends give the location of Kainam’s stelae as near Mount Hermon, north of the Sea of Galilee. Even today, he remarks, there are still carved stones to be found there.''
''Mount Hermon has been a holy site for millennia. The ancient Canaanites used the mountain for''
''their pagan rituals. The river Jordan has its source in the snow of its upper slopes. At the base of the mountain, near the town of Banias, which the Romans called Caesarea Phillipi, Jesus granted to St. Peter the “keys to the kingdom of Heaven.” And it was at Mount Hermon that the Watchers descended from Heaven to teach their secrets to the people.''
''The lower slopes of the mountain are devoid of any Grigori relics, as any that were here have long ago been taken or destroyed. The upper slopes, however, are covered by snow most of the year. It is near the summit that an ancient city of the Nephilim is found. Wishing to be near their fathers, the giants of legend built a great city from massive stones on the northern face of the mountain. Perhaps 700 Nephilim lived here before the flood, but since that time it has been abandoned. Anyone willing to make the treacherous ascent of the northern slope finds the city of the giants empty and foreboding. The city itself is built on a massive scale. The gates of the city stand 20 paces high, and within are stone houses built for giants, with doorways reaching almost three times the height of a man. There are few traces of the Nephilim to be found here, however. The only clue that remains as to its inhabitants lies at the heart of the deserted city. There stand three massive stone obelisks, carved in archaic Hebrew, and they tell the story of the coming of the Grigori and of their teachings.''
''The obelisks may be treated as a summa on Magic Theory with Level 8 and Quality 6. In addition, for the purposes of integrating any of the Secrets of the Grigori with Hermetic theory, a copy of the inscriptions functions as source of Insight, as described in the Introduction.''
''These stelae have a special connection to the descendants of the''
''original inhabitants. Anyone with the Blood of the Nephilim Virtue who spends a season studying the stones in situ gains the Baraqijal’s Secret Supernatural Virtue. Studying copies of the inscriptions does not have this effect, and this is obvious to anyone with Virtue. For more on the Nephilim, see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 16 and 66.''

==The Watchers Themselves==

''And again the Lord said to Raphael: ‘Bind Azael hand and foot, and cast him into the darkness: and make an opening in the desert, which is in Dudael, and cast him therein. And place upon him rough and jagged rocks, and cover him with darkness, and let him abide there forever, and cover his face that he may not see light...''
''— I Enoch 10:4–6''
''Ambitious magi might seek to cut the relics of the Grigori out of the picture entirely and instead seek their creators as a source of Insight. The Book of the Watchers describes how the Grigori were cursed by God and chained to the earth to suffer until the day of judgment. Their leader, Semyaza, was bound “into the valleys of the earth” by the archangel Michael, while one of their chiefs of ten, Azael, was cast into a great pit in the desert and covered with sharp rocks by Raphael. Many of the Grigori fell and became demons. (For more on the demonic Grigori, see Realms of Power: The Infernal.) Some, however, accepted their fate and remained Holy Watchers.''

===The Shamed Leader===

''St. Nerius records that the monks of the monastery of St. Jacob on the''

[|

==Finding the Grigori==

''Finding the locations of these relics and sites to help break the Limit of Vim may be their own adventures. If the troupe desires to focus on the acquisition and use of the knowledge rather than on the search for the relics’ locations, simple Ability rolls may suffice to learn where they may be found. The following are suggested Abilities and Ease Factors for use in that search.''
''Existence of The Engima of the Sons of God: Order of Hermes Lore, Ease Factor 12 Location of the second vol''
''ume of The Engima of the Sons''
''of God: Order of Hermes Lore, Ease Factor 24 Location of the capital of the''
''Nephilim: Dominion Lore, Ease Factor 15 Location of Shamsiel’s prison:''
''Dominion Lore, Ease Factor 21 Location of Azael’s prison:''
''Dominion Lore, Ease Factor 15''
''Storyguides may wish to use the optional library consultation rules to assist in the characters’ research.''
''slopes of Mount Ararat have a legend that when the flood waters subsided and the Ark came to rest on the mountain, Noah and his family were careful to avoid the northern face, for the Lord warned them away from it. He also writes that stones akin to those found on the slopes of Mount Hermon have been found near Mount Ararat as well. These legends are not without foundation.''
''When God brought the deluge to wash sin and wickedness from the earth, the students of the Grigori sought refuge from the waters of the flood. Some tried to use their magic to save themselves, but they were powerless in the face of the Divine. Some begged the Grigori to save them, but the Watchers could do nothing. Some took shelter in the city of the Nephilim on Mount Hermon, but as the waters rose, even that mighty peak could not save them. As their students drowned, the chiefs of the Grigori were imprisoned by the Heavenly Host. In desperation, Shamsiel led his followers to Mount Ararat. He hoped that this great mountain would serve them better than Mount Hermon had, but as the rains continued to fall, they retreated further and further up the slopes. Shamsiel could only watch as the people and the remains of the Watchers gave up hope. Finally, on the fortieth day of rain, the Archangel Michael appeared to imprison the remaining Grigori. Resigned to his fate, Shamsiel appealed to God for mercy. Shamsiel knew that he had sinned and that he must be punished, but he begged forgiveness for those who had not sinned as he had. Let those who only took human wives but did not teach them magic continue to serve the Lord, Shamsiel pleaded. God relented. Only those of the Grigori who had taught magic to humanity would be imprisoned. The rest would continue to serve Heaven,''
''but not as they were before. They were cast out of Heaven, but they did not fall. As the flood waters covered the mighty peak, the Watchers were transformed, Shamsiel was cast down into deep, and the Grigori passed into legend.''
''St. Jacob was the fourth century bishop of Nisibus who sought to climb Mount Ararat to find the remains of Noah’s Ark. He tried several times to climb the northern slope, but each time his efforts were thwarted by storms. Finally, a pair of angels appeared before him, commanding him to cease his efforts but bringing him a plank from the Ark. Giving thanks to God for this miracle, he founded the monastery that now bears his name.''
''Anyone who wishes to retrace St. Jacob’s steps had best be ready for the worst. The upper slopes of Mount Ararat are composed primarily''
''of loose rocks and ice, and slides are quite common. Thunderstorms also occur frequently, and climbers who find themselves caught in one may be in real danger of being hit by lightning if they are unprotected. It is as though the mountain itself conspires against those who seek reach its peak and unlock its secrets.''
''Near the peak of Mount Ararat, at the top of the northern ridge, stands a single tall stone. Carved into the face of it are the True Names of the leaders of the Holy Watchers, those Grigori who did not fall, headed by Shamsiel’s. Anyone who calls upon the True Name of Shamsiel within five paces of the obelisk is transported to the regio that contains the imprisoned Watcher.''
''The regio has a single level with a Divine aura strength of 5, and it covers the entire northern face of the mountain, all the way down to the''

|]
''village of Ahora. Shamsiel’s prison is a huge gorge almost two miles deep and more than a mile wide, and within this dark, rocky recess dwells one of the chiefs of the Watchers. Shamsiel is a mere shell of his former self, and although others may exit the regio with ease, Shamsiel is unable to leave at all.''
''Despite his imprisonment, Shamsiel bears no hatred toward the Lord or his servants. With the grace that only an angel can muster, he has accepted his punishment as the bitter fruit of his misguided labors. He believes that in the last days he will be cast into the lake of fire, but he knows that he deserves it for what he has done. As a result, the prideful Watcher has become an almost shameful creature. He is still a master of magic, however, and he is willing to teach his secrets to anyone who promises to use them for holy purposes. When he was cast down into the gorge, the Lord told him that one day the world would be ready for secrets of magic, and that any pious magus who sought out Shamsiel’s prison was worthy of his teachings. Any magus''

[|
''Divine Might: 30 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre''
''+3, Com +3, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: +3 Age: n/a (70) Confidence Score: 2 (10) Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Patient +3, Shameful +3 Reputations: Rebellious Angel 4''
''(among Christian and Jewish Theologians), Teacher of Secrets 3 (among Christian and Jewish Theologians) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack 0, Defense 0,''
''Damage 0 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–''
''16), –5 (17–24), Inc. (25–32) Abilities: Artes Liberales 6 (astron''
''omy), Concentration 8 (prayer), Divine Lore 7 (angels), Magic Lore 7 (traditions), Penetration 4 (humans) Philosophiae 8 (ceremonial magic), Teaching 8 (magic), Theology 6 (angels) Powers: Enfolding, 2 or 10 points, +10, Vim:''
''When the pious are in danger or torment, Shamsiel may grant them comfort, imparting a moment of peace and mercy. This power renders the target’s soul wholly safe and protected for a short time. While Enfolded, the target’s soul (and mind) may not be targeted by any supernatural power of any kind. This power only lasts for a few scant moments, but for the target it is timeless and can seem to stretch to a lifetime. Shamsiel may also Enfold a person’s body (costing 10 Might points), rendering him completely invulnerable to magic, pain, damage, fatigue,''
''wounds, or death, although this power only lasts for a very short period of time (no longer than one combat round). This power is most often used on a member of the faithful who is about to be martyred or suffer terribly. Holy Magic, 1 or more points, +0,''
''by effect: Shamsiel can duplicate any effect of Hermetic or holy magic, at a cost of 1 Might Point for every two magnitudes of the effect. There is no limit, other than his remaining Might Pool, on the number of points he can spend on a single effect. This includes Ritual effects, for which he needs neither vis nor long periods of time. Grant Secret, 4 points, +0, Mentem:''
''Shamsiel may use this power to grant the Virtue Shamsiel’s Secret. The target must remain with Shamsiel for a full year to receive the Virtue. Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: Six pawns of Vim in his skull. Appearance: Shamsiel appears as a''
''gigantic but frail old man, with a wizened face and a shaven head. He dresses in sackcloth and rarely raises his eyes to look at someone when he speaks to them. He is deeply shamed by the evil that has been wrought through his teachings, and he has resigned himself to the punishment he will receive on the day of judgment.''
''Despite his current state, Shamsiel is still an angel, with all the traits described on page 18 of Realms of Power: The Divine. As a Grigori, he has been locked permanently in his Mantle, and due to his imprisonment, he has lost his Envisioning Power.''

|]
''Shamsiel, Holy Watcher Timbers of the Ark''

[|
''Mount Ararat is the final resting place of Noah’s Ark, and relicseeking magi who reach the summit are not disappointed. The remains of the Ark are found just beyond the entrance to Shamsiel’s regio. A single timber is a relic containing 2 Faith Points. Although more than a of score of timbers are found in the area, if anyone tries to take more than one, the angel Nuriel, angel of hailstorms and a captain in the Heavenly Host, appears and forbids him from doing so. If he persists, Nuriel attempts to drive him off.''
''who spends a full year in the regio and convinces Shamsiel to teach him not only acquires Insight he may use to integrate Grigori Magic with Hermetic theory, he also gains the Supernatural Virtue Shamsiel’s Gift, as per Shamsiel’s Grant Secret Power. He also gains the Pious Minor Personality Flaw if he did not already have it.''

===The Fallen Watcher===

''Then he shall take the two goats, and set them before The Lord at the door of the tent of meeting; and Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats, one lot for The Lord and the other lot for Azael. And Aaron shall present the goat on which the lot fell for The Lord, and offer it as a sin offering; but the goat on which the lot fell for Azael shall be presented alive before The Lord to make atonement over it, that it may be sent away into the wilderness to Azael.''
''— Leviticus 16:7–10''
''Three miles to the southeast of Jerusalem, on the edge of the desert, lies Beth Hadudo, the rocky crag down which the Jews pushed the “goat for Azael” each year on the Day of Atonement, as Leviticus directed. As St. Nerius explains, the Hebrew word hadudo, meaning “rocky peak,” comes from the same root word as dudael, which means “rocky place of the Lord.” Here, on the edge of the desert, buried with sharp rocks under the mountain, lies Azael, bound until the day of judgment. Unlike Shamsiel and unknown to any mortal writers, he did not take his punishment lightly, nor did he accept his imprisonment as part of God’s plan. Azael, unlike Shamsiel, completed his fall, and now broods within his prison, seeking vengeance on the Lord and Creation.''
''The regio is centered on the southeastern edge of Beth Hadudo and has a single level with an Infernal''
''strength of 3. The simplest way to find it is to release a goat from the top of the peak and drive it into the desert. Azael is unable to resist such an offering, and he draws the goat into the regio to consume it. The entrance''
''to the regio then becomes apparent for several minutes. Once detected, the regio can be entered and exited at will. Azael, however, is entirely unable to leave, as he is held here by the will of God.''
''Order: Duke of Deluders (Watchers) Infernal Might: 40 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre''
''–1, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex +3, Qik +5 Size: +3 Age: n/a (35) Confidence Score: 4 (17) Virtues and Flaws: Good Teacher,''
''Puissant Guile Personality Traits: Hate of God +5,''
''Destructive +3, Credible +3, Sly +2 Reputations: Rebellious Angel 4''
''(among Christian and Jewish Theologians), Teacher of Secrets 2 (among Christian and Jewish Theologians) Combat: Broken Sword: Init +5, Attack +10,''
''Defense +10, Damage +5 (The sword was broken in his battle with Raphael, but Azael retains it anyway.) Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–''
''16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32) Abilities: Athletics 6 (endurance),''
''Awareness 5 (battle), Craft Weapon 7 (swords), Guile 7+2 (magi), Infernal Lore 6 (hierarchies), Magic Lore 4 (charms), Single Weapon 6 (sword), Teaching 5 (crafts), Theology 6 (angels) Weakness: Ordering Powers:''
''Grant Secret, 4 points, Init +0, Mentem:''
''Azael may use this Power to grant the Virtue Azael’s Secret. The target must remain with Azael for a full year to receive the Virtue. Any use of this Power includes the effects of Corrupted Knowledge as well. Unlike other Grigori Secrets, this is tied to the Infernal realm. The Wordless Conversation, 0 points,''
''Init 0, Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 6. Corrupted Knowledge, 2 points, Init –3,''
''Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 6. Coagulation, 4 points, Init –1, Corpus:''
''See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 4. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Arrogance. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 4. Delusion, 1 or 5 points, Init +3,''
''Imaginem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 4. Duplicate the Magi’s Destruction, variable''
''points, Init +1, variable Form: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, Chapter 4. Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: Eight pawns of Perdo in the''
''sword. Appearance: Like all the fallen''
''Grigori, Azael is solid black and taller than a giant. No details can be made out other than the hundreds of eyes that cover his featureless skin. He is eternally silent, communicating directly into the minds of his pupils.''

==Azael, Fallen Watcher==


|]
''The inside of the regio looks much the like the outside: a rocky crag; a dry, dusty atmosphere; and deep shadows that give little relief from the cruel sun. These unpleasant traits are amplified within the regio, and the landscape is even less welcoming. The bones of thousands of goats are strewn about, and everything is stained by the soot from Azael’s gigantic forge, which runs night and day. He labors endlessly at it, crafting weapons of every shape and description.''
''Azael is eager to teach any magus who penetrates this regio and spends a full year there the Supernatural Virtue Azael’s Secret, provided that the magus promises Azael that he will use it to spread sin and wickedness. The character also gains the Corrupted Abilities Supernatural Flaw (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 87).''

===The Remains of the Watchers===

''The locations of the other bound Holy Watchers are unknown, and the Book of the Watchers gives no clue as to''
''the places of their imprisonment. Not all are bound, however. As Realms of Power: The Divine describes on page 26, some of the Grigori still walk the earth, teaching holy wisdom, though''
''they are no longer part of the Heavenly Host. These are the Watchers saved by Shamsiel during the flood. They could never teach the Secrets of the Grigori, and they cannot do so now. They do know of the city of the Nephilim and of Shamsiel’s prison, and if they believe that a magus is worthy of this knowledge, they impart it to him. It was one of these Watchers that inspired St. Nerius to write his book, and more than one of them as been known to leave a copy of the first volume where a pious magus will find it. Although they have little to do with the world today, the Grigori are still watching.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
