''Galerius is a Quaesitor who sees it as his personal mission to punish magi who do anything that potentially endangers the Order of Hermes. His idea of what endangers the Order is extraordinarily broad, and he gets so personally invested in his cases that his judgment becomes clouded. He is the sort who believes it is better to risk punishing the innocent than let the guilty escape. When confronted with evidence of some minor offense, Galerius takes umbrage and quickly concludes that the suspects are mavericks who threaten the peace and rule of law. He makes it his mission to bring them to “justice,” and in the process, he loses sight of his duty to obey the Code and to respect the rights of magi. In truth, Galerius himself is a greater threat to the Order than are any of the magi he persecutes. Galerius is best used if the characters have done something questionable, or at least if they have something to hide. It is also possible to bring him into play by having the magi falsely accused, either in error or a frame-up. If there is really no reason to suspect the magi of a crime, Galerius isn’t a significant threat. In that case, he can be used as an ally in the short term. Do the magi notice his over-reaching methods, and if so, do they dare risk his ire by challenging them?''

==Background==

''Galerius is a respected member of House Guernicus in the Tribunal where the characters reside. His pater was the illustrious Paulinus, a now-deceased Quaesitor known for his erudite legal opinions, his''
''skill as a negotiator and peacemaker, and his decades of selfless service to the Order. A few years after Galerius passed his Wizard’s Gauntlet, Paulinus, while traveling alone, was murdered by an angry mob of peasants who mistook him for a witch. This was a great blow to Galerius. He had idolized his pater, and his loss filled his with anger and bitterness. At first, his acrimony was directed at mundanes, but he soon learned the circumstances of the riot that killed his pater. A rash magus had been casting spells in public, frightening the common folk and leading their bishop to deliver fiery sermons about witchcraft imperiling Christian''
''souls. Paulinus was simply unlucky enough to pass through the town during that troubled time. A peasant he passed on the street shouted an accusation of witchcraft. Quickly, a mob formed. Paulinus tried to disguise himself and slip away, but the mob was able to maintain pursuit in spite of his ever-changing appearance. Eventually, the mob seized him, dragged him to the town square, and hanged him. Galerius hunted down the careless magus, a Jerbiton named Holger Rosmer, and charged him with endangering the Order. After a short trial, Rosmer was convicted and punished with the death of his famil''

=Galerius of House Guernicus=

''iar. (Galerius had pressed for a Wizard’s March, but cooler heads prevailed.) Since Paulinus’ death over twenty years ago, Galerius has dedicated his career to prosecuting magi who he thinks endanger the Order. He is well-known for his tireless commitment to this work. Anyone who knows Galerius’ Reputation knows that to be investigated by him means real trouble.''

==Aims and Motivations==

''Galerius firmly believes that reckless behavior endangers the Order. He has a vivid imagination for how a seemingly minor''
''incident can escalate into a crisis. Galerius also has a cynical view of human nature, and presumes that magi are constantly scheming against one another and sidestepping the Code of Hermes. He believes that only vigorous enforcement of the Code prevents the Order from spiraling into chaos. In fact, much of Galerius’ austerity arises from unresolved feelings about his''

==Galerius the Quaesitor==

''Characteristics: Int +4, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str –2, Sta +1, Dex –1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 54 (47) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (5) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Flexible Formulaic Magic; Affinity with Intellego, Great Intelligence, Hermetic Prestige, Improved Characteristics, Skilled Parens; Driven (protect the Order of Hermes from internal threats, Major), Restriction (cannot cast under a cloudless sky); Ability Block (cannot learn Martial Abilities), Obsessed (finding evidence of criminality), Unimaginative Learner Personality Traits: Driven to Protect the Order +6, Loyal to Nightwing +3, Suspicious +3, Fastidious +1, Forgiving –2 Reputations: Aggressive Investigator 3 (Hermetic) Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Dagger: Init 0, Attack +2, Defense +1, Damage +1 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (logic), Awareness 3 (searching), Brawl 1 (dodging), Civil and Canon Law 2 (laws and customs of Lorraine), Code of Hermes 5 (mundane relations), Concentration 2 (spell concentration), Finesse 2 (fine control), Folk Ken 3 (mundanes), Guile 3 (imper''
''sonating mundanes), High German 5 (expansive vocabulary), Intrigue 3 (rumormongering), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Order of Hermes Lore 3 (politics), Magic Theory 6 (12) (Intellego), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 3 (Intellego),Teaching 1 (Magic Theory) Arts: Cr 7, In 13, Mu 5, Pe 6, Re 5; An 5, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 9, He 5, Ig 0, Im 7, Me 10, Te 0, Vi 10 Equipment: Opal ring talisman, wizardly robes, two-minute hourglass, dagger Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: The Inexorable Search (InCo 20/+23) Sight of the Molting Magus (InCo 25/+23) (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 72) Whispers Through the Black Gate (InCo(Me) 15/+23) The Whole from the Part (InCo 15/+22) Tangle of Wood and Thorns (ReHe 15/+11) The Ear for Distant Voices (InIm 20/+21) Summoning the Distant Image (InIm 25/+23*) Aura of Beguiling Presence (MuIm 10/+15*) (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 96) Disguise of the Transformed Image (MuIm 10/+15*) By His Works (CrMe 5/+21*) (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) Words of Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10/+18) The Good Witness (CrMe 25/+22*) (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20/+24) Posing the Silent Question (InMe 20/+26) Mastery 2 (quiet casting, still casting) Thoughts Within Babble (InMe 25/+24) Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20/+16) Trust Me (ReMe 20/+16) (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) Invisible Sling of Vilano (ReTe 10/+6) (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 38)''
''Bitter Taste of Betrayal (InVi 15/+24) (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 75) Sense of the Lingering Magic (InVi 30/+24) Maintaining the Demanding Spell (ReVi 20/+16) * 	 Includes attunement bonus of talisman Talisman Effects: Invisibility, PeIm 15, Pen 0, 3/day (Base 4, +1 Conc., +1 moving image, +5 levels because item maintains concentration) Posing the Silent Question, InMe 20, Pen 0, unlimited uses Loss of But a Moment’s Memory, PeMe 15, Pen 0, 6/day Talisman Attunements: Opal +2 images, Opal +4 memory, Jewelry +4 protect self Appearance: Galerius is a tall, thin, austere-looking man with an air of accustomed authority and a brusque demeanor. He commonly wears wizard’s robes of fine woolen cloth embroidered with gold thread. However, Galerius is rarely seen in his true form unless he wants to be; he makes frequent use of Disguise of the Transformed Image. His favorite disguises are inconspicuous: a beggar, a peasant laborer, a common peddler.''
''Galerius is a middle-ranked Quaesitor in the Tribunal where the characters reside. (His native language and his specialty in Civil and Canon Law should be modified to match the setting.) He is known to be especially dedicated to his work of maintaining law and order and rooting out wrongdoers. In fact, it is said that everyone he has investigated has been found guilty of something. He is also an acknowledged expert on mundane relations.''
''pater’s death. He greatly admired Paulinus while he was alive. He feels a fierce drive to carry on his legacy, yet he has elevated his teacher’s memory to the point where he can never live up to it. He has transferred his guilt over his pater’s death onto the Tribunal and his fellow Quaesitors, blaming their laxity for Paulinus’ fate. Galerius is highly intelligent but is blinded by his own preconceptions. He is very much concerned with harm that could arise from magi’s actions, rather than with harm that does arise from them. He sees it as his mission to punish magi who behave recklessly, so they will learn to live in peaceful isolation, as he thinks all magi should do. Although his judgment is clouded, Galerius’ motives are sincere. If he is made to realize that his over-reaching zeal has made a travesty of justice, he is devastated and tries to make amends as best he can.''

==First Encounter==

''Galerius is only interested in investigating cases that potentially endanger the Order or other magi. Since he imagines dire consequences arising from the most minor offenses, most Hermetic legal issues qualify.''
''Galerius’ investigation may begin in response to a complaint by one of the covenant’s Hermetic neighbors, but he can also undertake investigations on his own initiative. There must be some evidence of a crime to draw his attention — he doesn’t just wander into the area and start investigating pure speculation — but he willingly investigates weak or circumstantial evidence.''

==Galerius’ Initial Suspicions==

''The following are some suggestions for what attracted Galerius’ attention.''
''Plausible Basis''
''If the player magi have made a mistake in either not paying enough attention to the Code, or thinking they can get away with breaking it, Galerius is a good way to show that the Order does enforce its law. It may seem to the players that they’re facing an especially tough and dangerous Quaesitor, but in fact, Galerius’ over-reaching makes it easier to defend against his accusations. If they can expose his bias and his ethical lapses, they stand a good chance of having the charges reduced or dismissed.''
''Some actual transgressions that the characters may commit, or be reasonably accused of committing, include:''
''• Scrying: As pointed out on page 14 of ArM5, Tribunals tend to enforce this clause of the Code strictly, yet it’s easy to violate. Galerius himself enjoys limited immunity from charges of scrying while he is performing an investigation (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 62), and he tends to rely on that immunity very readily. He does not, however, extend any leniency to his fellow magi. • Dealing with Demons: Most Ars Magica Fifth Edition players don’t want their magi to knowingly dabble in the Infernal, though the rules in Realms of Power: The Infernal make it possible. Still, dealing with devils is another crime the Order takes extremely seriously. Even accidental or seemingly innocent acts can lead to charges, for example, against characters who unknowingly collect or use Infernally tainted vis. If a demon or diabolist is known to have frequented the area near the covenant, Galerius feels an investigation is necessary to determine who has been corrupted. Since demons are famous for their ability to deceive Hermetic magi, it is easy for him to imagine their pres''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Familiar: Nightwing, the Raven of Virtue==

''The Raven’s base statistics (before being bonded as a familiar) can be found in Realms of Power: Magic (page 62).''
''Magic Might: 9 Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre –2, Com 0, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik +5 Size: –4 Warping Score: 1 (8) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Friend; Essential Virtue (understand portents), Keen Vision, Unaffected by the Gift; Compulsion (steal shiny objects), Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Improved Abilities (x2), Improved Defense (x2), Minor Virtue: Premonitions, Minor Virtue: Second Sight;''
''Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Loyal to Galerius +3, Morbid +3, Nurturing +2, Raven +3, Understands Portents +3 Reputations: Bad Luck 2 (local) Combat: Dodge: Init +5, Attack n/a, Defense +12, Damage n/a Beak: Init +5, Attack +7, Defense +11, Damage –6 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 3 (shiny objects), Brawl 3 (dodging), German 5 (sarcastic remarks), Hunt 1 (voles), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage),''
''Magic Theory 1 (enchanting familiar), Premonitions 4 (homicide), Second Sight 4 (ghosts), Stealth 1 (hiding in treetops), Survival 3 (fields) Vis: 2 Intellego (1 in each eye) Gold Cord: 0, Silver Cord: 3, Bronze Cord: 0 Bond Powers: Mental Communication (complex), as per the Level 15 effect in ArM5, page 105. This effect works on both Galerius and Nightwing. Shared Senses, as per the Level 30 effect in ArM5, page 105. This effect allows Galerius to use Nightwing’s senses, but not the converse. Appearance: A raven whose eyes sparkle with unnatural intelligence.''

|}
''ence where none exist. The punishment for knowingly dealing with demons is always a Wizard’s March, so this option is potentially very dangerous for the players’ magi. The story should hinge on proving the characters either didn’t come into contact with demons at all, or didn’t recognize the evil at the time. The storyguide should take extra care to give the players enough clues and be sure they understand Hermetic law and procedure well enough, to give their characters a good chance of acquittal. • Deprivation of Magical Power: Simply collecting vis from a disputed source is enough to trigger a charge of this crime. If the characters are attacked by a magical beast within several miles of another covenant and slay it, that covenant may make a claim that the vis rightfully belonged to them. Disputes over possible familiars or apprentices also fall into this category. If the covenant gets dragged into more than one or two disputes over magical resources, Galerius decides they are habitual troublemakers who need to be taught a lesson. • Mundane Interference: Exactly what constitutes mundane interference varies from saga to saga and Tribunal to Tribunal. The Normandy Tribunal interprets the Code’s clause about mundanes very loosely: for a crime to have occurred, it must be proved that the magus’ dealing with mundanes actually “[brought] ruin upon” another magus. (See The Lion and the Lily, page 25). There is latitude in the definition of “ruin.” Is financial harm enough, or loss of goodwill and reputation? In other Tribunals, the Peripheral Code is less forgiving, and actual harm need not always be proved. Activities that seem likely to harm another magus (or the Order as a whole) may qualify as low crimes. Actually serving a mundane as a court wizard is always a serious crime, even in the Normandy Tribunal. • Reckless Behavior: It is not against the Code of Hermes to do something stupid, but Galerius thinks it should be. His pater was murdered by a mob stirred up by a careless magus who cast spells in public. Any action that provokes a lot of anger from the Order’s neighbors — mundanes, faeries, the Church, even hedge wizards in some Tribunals — is a''
''crisis in Galerius’ mind. In Holger Rosmer’s case, the reckless behavior indirectly resulted in the death of a magus, so it was easy for the Tribunal to see things Galerius’ way. In the player characters’ case, the potential harm their actions might hypothetically cause can easily become more important, in Galerius’ mind, than the actual repercussions of those actions. Any reasonable Tribunal is reluctant to set the precedent of issuing harsh punishments for what might have happened, so Galerius is very likely to lose the case unless he can prove real harm was done. His emotions get in the way of his judgment and he can easily become impassioned about a case that has no real merit. This makes him into a paper tiger, but it can still make for a good story. Consider this approach if your troupe has little experience with legal stories. Galerius’ fearsome reputation and his aggressive pursuit of the case make the threat seem serious, but the actual danger to the magi is much less than it appears. Experienced troupes might see the weakness in Galerius’ case early on, but there remains the risk of the magi losing Reputation and respect if convicted, which should be enough to motivate them to mount a good defense.''
''Mistaken and Fabricated Accusations''
''The characters need not have actually committed any infraction at all. The magi might simply have been in the wrong place at the wrong time. If some Hermetic crime is committed near the covenant, the player characters are natural suspects, even if the actual perpetrator was a neighbor or passer-by. It’s also possible that the magi were framed. These kinds of accusations make good stories because the characters have a clear path to proving their innocence: solve the crime themselves and present their evidence, either to Galerius or in a dramatic courtroom revelation.''
''•	 A wandering magus or redcap whom the covenant dislikes has disappeared and was last seen nearby. In reality, anything could have happened: the victim''
''might have been kidnapped or murdered by outlaws, fallen into a river and drowned, or been abducted by faeries. •	 The sanctum of a magus at a neighboring covenant has been burgled. Something very valuable, such as an invested device or high-Quality book, was stolen. The rightful owner’s Arcane Connections to the stolen items have prematurely expired due to Perdo Vim magic. The theft was an inside job; a member of the victim’s own covenant is to blame. •	 A hedge wizard in the area has turned to diabolism. He shares some mutual enemies with the covenant, and attacks those enemies with his Infernal powers. •	 A magus from another Tribunal has been selling enchanted items surreptitiously to evade the normal rules restricting the power and number of items that may be sold. Nobles, clergymen, and rich merchants throughout the region all vie with one another to collect the most impressive items.''
''There are many other story seeds throughout various Ars Magica Fifth Edition sourcebooks where the player characters are accused of Hermetic crimes. Any of those would be a way to introduce Galerius as an adversary.''

==Meeting Galerius==

''Galerius’ reputation should precede him. Since he belongs to the same Tribunal as the player characters, the characters know his reputation if they succeed in a stress roll of Galerius’ Reputation against an Ease Factor of 6 (ArM5, page 19). His Reputation as an “aggressive investigator” means that he is known both for prosecuting minor offenses that other Quaesitors might be inclined to overlook, and for seeking the harshest penalty allowed by law. In the first encounter, Galerius announces that he’s conducting an investigation in the area and asks the magi some preliminary questions: what they know about the incident, exactly which magi live at the covenant, whether there have been outside magi visiting the area, and so on. He refers to this as an “interview” rather than an interrogation. The initial in''
''terview is cordial enough. Galerius seems brusque but that could be attributed to efficiency. He does not badger or intimidate the witnesses — yet. It is not customary for this kind of questioning to take place under magical verification, such as Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, and if the magi volunteer for such magic at this point, Galerius demurs, saying it would be premature. He does remember the offer and asks the magi to honor it later, once he has decided they’re a threat to the Order. He tells the magi in matter-of-fact terms what specific incident he’s investigating. His modus operandi is to find out first what happened, then jump to a conclusion about how that endangers the Order, and then keep digging for evidence until he can convict the culprit. Galerius pretends to leave the area after the interview, but in fact, he stays around in disguise to investigate. The first thing he does is verify the characters’ answers to his initial questions.''

==Methods==

''Galerius uses his powers as a Quaesitor to investigate whatever crime or offense the magi are suspected of. In fact, he goes quite a bit beyond what his legal authority actually allows. He quickly turns his investigation into a fishing expedition, continuing to search for evidence until he has something with which to charge the player characters. After the initial interview, he avoids directly confronting the suspects until he feels he has gathered all the evidence he can. Then he either goes back to his home covenant and waits to file formal charges at Tribunal or, if the player characters offered to submit to magical questioning, he returns to them and asks them to honor that offer.''

==Disguise==

''Galerius makes extensive use of the spell, Disguise of the Transformed Image. He uses disguise primarily to search for clues and to question mundanes (see Question''
''ing Mundanes, later in this chapter). If he is working alongside another magus (see Bodyguard, later), he casts a magical disguise over his colleague as well. There are a number of standard disguises Galerius uses. He prefers the guise of a male, but will adopt a female persona when it serves his purpose. Most of his disguises are from the lower social classes so they attract less notice. Some of his disguises include:''
''•	 A beggar. •	 A destitute leper. •	 A penitent pilgrim. •	 A street urchin. •	 A young (mundane) apprentice on an errand for his master. •	 Any local villager he has seen heading the other way; impersonating a local helps him avoid notice in small communities.''
''Galerius’ Wizard’s Sigil is the color grey, so all of his disguises include an article of grey clothing or grey hair. This can become a clue once the characters start keeping a watch for him.''
''Galerius changes disguises often, as much as several times per day, choosing the guise that best fits the place he’s investigating or the people he wants to question. His Gift causes distrust in the mundanes he passes near, so he prefers to keep moving. It seems to the mundane population that several suspicious-looking strangers have converged on their village. In larger towns, there are usually a lot of strangers, so he stands out less. Using a magical disguise to gather information about a magus counts as scrying under the Peripheral Code. Using a spell such as Discerning the Images of Truth and Falsehood would also count as scrying, but under the principle of forfeit immunity, it is not a crime to magically expose another magus who is doing something illegal. Things are a bit tricky because Galerius doesn’t believe he is doing anything illegal, but he probably is. If unmasked through magic, he threatens charges but later drops them because he knows they’re weak. Discerning the Images of Truth and Falsehood must penetrate Galerius’ Magic Resistance.''
''Invisibility''
''Galerius’ Talisman has the power to make him invisible. Since it can only be used a few times a day, he usually reserves it for getting out of a tight spot, such as slipping away when he thinks he’s being shadowed. If a tempting opportunity arises, such as the chance to follow a major suspect, he might give in to that temptation. Simply walking around while invisible is widely considered a form of scrying, though some Tribunals are less strict about it than others. Using invisibility to knowingly follow a magus is indisputably scrying.''

==Familiar==

''Galerius’ familiar is a raven named Nightwing. It has a bond power that allows him to see and hear through its senses. He uses the familiar to keep watch over important places (such as the scene of the crime, once he’s found it) and to scout areas where he doesn’t want to travel on foot. If he becomes aware that the characters are following his movements, he uses the raven as a lookout to avoid trackers. This counts as scrying in any Tribunal.''

==The Investigation Begins==

''Galerius’ investigative style combines deep background work among the mundanes closest to the magus who draws his attention, and magical scrying techniques that flirt with the boundaries of interdicted behavior among magi.''

==Questioning Mundanes==

''One of the keys to Galerius’ success as investigator is his excellent use of mundane witnesses. Not everyone in the Order or the Tribunal respects these methods: mundanes can be considered unreliable because their senses and their memories are so easily deceived by magic. Nonetheless, Galerius has refined the art of using mundane witnesses to guide his investigations. Regardless of how they view the magi living near them (whether with curiosity, awe, or dread), mundanes rarely ignore the affairs of wizards. They tend to know a good deal about magi’s habits and associations, and it’s usually easy to get them to tell stories about the magi. For example, if''
''the magi have been paying a lot of visits to the local lord (or vice versa), the peasants at the lord’s manor know about it. They also tend to report eagerly  other supernatural happenings, such as faerie sightings. Galerius’ usual approach is to use Disguise of the Transformed Image to walk among mundanes incognito. He eavesdrops on conversations and tries to identify potential witnesses. Then he uses his talisman’s Posing the Silent Question power (or casts the spell without using words or gestures) to confirm that the witness actually saw something. Next, he tries to catch the witness unaware, so he can cast Trust Me (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) and initiate a conversation. This spell buys the caster time to have a sensible conversation, despite The Gift. If that fails, he falls back on bribery. He prefers to ask questions verbally, rather than through magic, because his subjects are more likely to volunteer information. He feels he can learn more from watching their eyes and faces than he can from magically gathering the bare answers from their minds. The entire process is time-consuming: Galerius can spend days in a village or town questioning witnesses. Most mundanes deeply distrust magi because of The Gift. Galerius himself suffers from this problem, which is why he relies on magic to aid him in questioning mundanes. He has become so accustomed''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Powers of a Quaesitor==

''The lawful powers of a Quaesitor are discussed in detail in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 61–66. Although that material is too lengthy to reproduce here, Galerius’ relevant powers and responsibilities as a Quaesitor can be summarized as follows:''
''•	 A Quaesitor must carry a letter of authority signed by the Primus of House Guernicus. If a Quaesitor abuses his powers, he can be stripped of his authority and expelled from the House. •	 A Quaesitor has a duty to investigate complaints of serious violations of the Code. He can’t refuse to investigate a serious incident, but he has some latitude in determining which complaints are serious. He can also undertake in''
''vestigations on his own initiative. •	 A Quaesitor can demand that magi provide reasonable cooperation with an active investigation. Cooperation does not require magi to submit to magical interrogation or give up other rights. •	 Quaesitors (or any magi) are entitled to use magic to investigate crimes. If, during the investigation, a Quaesitor inadvertently discovers other information about a magus unrelated to the crime, this is itself a crime. Quaesitors enjoy some immunity from prosecution for scrying in the course of their official duties; Galerius overrelies on that immunity, as explained under “Investigation Immunity.”''
''•	 In extreme cases, a Quaesitor may call a Wizard’s March without first presenting the case to a Tribunal. This would only be done if the Hermetic criminal were an immediate and serious threat to one or more Hermetic magi. Most Marches that occur are called this way. The March must later be ratified by a meeting of the Tribunal. •	 Quaesitors do not have the authority to arrest and detain magi, though there are some magi who advocate that they be given that power. Neither do they have the power to order a magus or a magus’ servants to submit to mind-reading or truth-detection spells, though magi can voluntarily agree to such methods if they wish.''

|}
''to relying on mundane witnesses that their bias against magi tends to infect him as well. After gathering mundane testimony, he tends to conclude the subjects of his investigation are deceitful rogues. He looks hard for evidence of their bad behavior, and uses it to attack the magi’s character at trial. When questioning a mundane witness, Galerius tries to be vague about his own identity. He is not afraid to lie, impersonating a pilgrim, traveling minstrel, or even a royal officer. He has a number of aliases and disguises worked out in advance. If the mundane in question has already witnessed another wizard blatantly using magic, he may admit that he is a magus and that he’s on the trail of “outlaw wizards” as he puts it. It is impossible to question a lot of mundanes without attracting attention to oneself. Soon, the area is abuzz with talk of mysterious strangers and their strange questions about wizards and magic. Wild rumors begin to circulate about the possible answers to these questions. This can create excitement, wonder, or paranoia. Galerius usually leaves the area before he has a chance to see what a stir his questioning creates. This strategy assumes that the covenant is not taking extraordinary steps to remain hidden from mundanes, or to maintain a false cover story. However, unless the covenant’s hidden nature or cover story are an established part of the saga, the local mundanes are aware of it and tell stories about its inhabitants. If the magi are more discreet, more of the stories are made up.''

==Investigation Immunity==

''The Code of Hermes states: “I will not use magic to scry upon members of the Order of Hermes, nor shall I use it to peer into their affairs.” Galerius’ methods — using magical disguises and Mentem spells to question mundanes; using his familiar as a lookout and scout; the wealth of Intellego spells at his command — certainly count as using magic to “peer into [magi’s] affairs.” His status as a Quaesitor gives him some immunity to charges when he uses magic as part of an official investigation. In practice, Galerius often bends, and sometimes breaks, the limits of his proper authority to scry on magi. Investigations are possible because of''
''the principle of forfeit immunity: that a magus who breaks the Code of Hermes forfeits the protection of the Code with respect to that breach. Thus, criminal activities are not protected by the Code, and it is legal for a Quaesitor (or, indeed, any magus) to use magic to pry into criminal activity. However, this exception applies only to evidence of criminal activity, and it is still illegal to magically gather, even inadvertently, information about the magus’ innocent affairs. This makes it difficult to use magic in an investigation for fear of learning too much, so the Peripheral Code grants Quaesitors a privilege called investigation immunity. By tradition, Quaesitors have some protection against charges of scrying if they are investigating a reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing. Investigation immunity means that the Quaesitor can only be prosecuted if, by discovering information about the magus’ innocent activities, she causes actual harm to the magus (for further detail, see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 62). A Quaesitor is expected to exercise good judgment and restrain the scope of his magical investigations. For example, it is perfectly acceptable to use magic to search a crime scene for clues, or to try to trace a piece of evidence back to its point of origin, but simply to use magic to gather background information about a magus''
''and his habits would be unacceptable. Yet this is, essentially, Galerius’ standard operating procedure. If the player-magi can prove that he has done it, they will be able to file charges against him at Tribunal. Galerius considers himself an upstanding Quaesitor. He believes the broad investigative net he casts is perfectly justified, and he comes up with a rationale for every step. For example, he rationalizes that using magic to interrogate villagers about a magus’ routine associations is justified because he needs to know whether the suspect is in regular contact with suspicious characters. Galerius, therefore, stops short of breaking hard and fast rules, such as the wellestablished rule that magi or their servants cannot be subjected to Intellego Mentem spells without the magi’s permission.''
''Broadening the Investigation''
''It is quite possible that Galerius will discover evidence of suspicious activity that is unrelated to his official case during his investigations. He can’t resist the urge to follow up on any signs of wrongdoing that might endanger the Order. Galerius can jump from suspicion to suspicion for quite a while. He believes everybody is guilty of something.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Interrogating Mundanes with Magic==

''Galerius, as the character is written, is designed with a fatal weakness: his practice of using spells to question mundanes. This is to give the player characters a better chance to make a counter-claim against him. If you want to make Galerius more formidable, let''
''him use a grog to do his leg work instead. Galerius gets much the same information, but since he does it without magic, the Code’s prohibition against scrying does not apply. This greatly reduces the player characters’ opportunities to discredit him.''

==Testimony of Mundanes==

''As pointed out in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages (page 58), mundanes are sometimes called to present evidence at Tribunal. They are permitted to testify in person, but more often, they provide written testimony. Some kind of magic is generally used during the testimony''
''to ensure the mundanes are speaking freely, without magical coercion. Frequently, Quaesitors don’t bother trying to present a mundane’s testimony at Tribunal. They may instead use mundane witnesses simply to guide the investigation and help them find physical evidence.''

|}

==Bodyguard==

''Galerius is a skilled investigator, but he is not well-equipped to defend himself. He frequently works with a young Tremere maga named Ingrid who serves as a bodyguard. Ingrid’s superiors have assigned her to help the Quaesitores when they ask. In a sense, Ingrid is like a very junior Hoplite, though she would not use that word to describe herself. Galerius calls on Ingrid when he feels a need for protection and assistance, but doesn’t want to call on a full-fledged Hoplite. The two magi have worked together several times before. Ingrid is weak in investigative skills and spells, so she usually doesn’t contribute directly to the investigation. In combat, Ingrid usually tries The Crystal Dart first, but if she runs into trouble penetrating Magic Resistance, she falls back on indirect spells such as Invisible Sling of Vilano and Pit of the Gaping Earth. Her spell mastery of Wizard’s Leap lets her teleport as a fastcast defense to avoid magical or mundane attacks. If Ingrid can obtain both an Arcane Connection and a sympathetic connection to her opponent, she can get a high enough Penetration Total to try her favorite attack spells: Invocation of Weariness and Grip of the Choking Hand. She likes these spells because they’re non-lethal, meaning she’s unlikely to be charged with a high crime, even if she attacks with insufficient cause. Exactly when and how often Ingrid accompanies Galerius is for the storyguide to decide. Ingrid is useful for deterring the player characters from attacking or harassing Galerius. On the other hand, if the players make a bad decision and find their characters in a fight, Ingrid is not as deadly as an actual Hoplite.''

==Requesting Cooperation==

''According to the Peripheral Code, magi are required to give reasonable assistance to a Quaesitor in an investigation. Galerius invokes that authority under certain circumstances: when he feels he must, or when the player magi confront him. Galerius is reluctant to ask for assistance from a stranger because he doesn’t trust any''

==Ingrid of House Tremere==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 36 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (1) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Flawless Magic; Affinity with Penetration, Minor Magical Focus (certamen), Skilled Parens, StrongWilled; Favors (to House Guernicus); Deficient Form (Mentem), Difficult Spontaneous Magic, Oversensitive (to magi flaunting their power) Personality Traits: Ambitious +2, Brave +2, Stubborn +1 Combat: Dagger: Init +1, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +3 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (astronomy), Athletics 3 (acrobatics), Awareness 2 (bodyguarding), Brawl 2 (dagger), Code of Hermes 1 (Tribunal procedure), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Finesse 3 (targeting), High German 5 (storytelling), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 1 (in combat), Magic Theory 4 (Rego), Parma Magica 4 (Ignem), Penetration 5 (Rego) Arts: Cr 5, In 0, Mu 5, Pe 10, Re 9; An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 10, He 0, Ig 0, Im 0, Me 0, Te 9, Vi 0 Equipment: Unassuming dress, Ash Wand talisman, dagger Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Bind Wound (CrCo 10/+18) Mastery 1 (penetration) Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude (MuCo 25/+18) Mastery 1 (still casting) Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo 25/+27*) Mastery 3 (penetration, imperturbable casting, multicasting) Invocation of Weariness (PeCo 20/+25*) Mastery 1 (penetration) Endurance of the Berserkers (variant with Duration: Diameter instead of Concentration) (ReCo 15/+22) Mastery 1''
''(imperturbable casting) Wizard’s Leap (ReCo 15/+22) Mastery 1 (fast casting) (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 36) The Crystal Dart (Mu(Re)Te 10/+17) Mastery 1 (penetration) Pit of the Gaping Earth (PeTe 15/+26*) Mastery 1 (precise casting) Stone to Falling Dust (PeTe 20/+26*) Mastery 1 (penetration) Invisible Sling of Vilano (ReTe 10/+21) Mastery 1 (precise casting) (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 38) Ominous Levitation of the Weighty Stone (ReTe 15/+21) Mastery 1 (precise casting) (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 38) Trackless Step (ReTe 10/+21) Mastery 1 (quiet casting) The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10/+21) Mastery 1 (multicasting) * 	 Includes attunement bonus of talisman Talisman Effects: The Wound that Weeps, PeCo 15, Pen 0, 12/day Repel the Wooden Shafts, ReHe 10, Pen 0, 6/day, Fast Trigger (+3 to Initiative) Talisman Attunements: Ash +2 harm people, Wand +4 destroy things at a distance Appearance: When working with Galerius, Ingrid poses as his wife or daughter, and tries to blend into the background, keeping her eyes open and her mouth shut. She wears finely made but unassuming dress with a minimum of jewelry. A closer look reveals that she’s not a typical mundane woman: her wiry, athletic build would be out of place for almost any social class. She keeps her talisman concealed in the sleeve of her dress and has a habit of fingering it.''
''Ingrid is a junior maga of House Tremere who does not yet possess her voting sigil. She often accompanies Galerius as a bodyguard when Galerius must travel through dangerous areas or investigate violent crimes. Ingrid remains by Galerius’ side; if there is a need for someone to perform an errand, Galerius sends his familiar or a mundane servant. Ingrid tries to keep a low profile, but her Gift sometimes makes this difficult. Ingrid uses her Christian name because it can’t be used as a sympathetic connection to her.''
''one (except, to a limited extent, Ingrid). He never asks the player characters to accompany him on his investigation, unless they have brought him strong evidence that points toward a different suspect. He requests hospitality, but only for a night or two, so as to give the impression that when he leaves the covenant, he has also left the area. If Galerius suspects the magi are trying to tamper with evidence or otherwise obstruct his investigation, he approaches them and explains that the investigation is a delicate matter. He requests the magi go back to their covenant and stay there for a day or two on some pretext, so he’ll know where to find them for further assistance, or so they don’t “accidentally” damage any physical evidence. Failure to cooperate with a Quaesitor’s investigation is a low crime. If Galerius sees the magi do anything that he thinks hinders his investigation, he files charges against them, using his own eyewitness testimony as evidence.''
''CounterIntelligence''
''Investigation is the key to defeating Galerius’ charges against the magi. It is important for story purposes that Galerius not reveal his own findings before the Tribunal. The magi have to figure out what he suspects and why.''

==Discovering Galerius==

''People living near the covenant become aware of mysterious, suspicious-looking strangers who ask odd questions and snoop around places the magi frequent. Sooner or later, word reaches the magi or their servants. Because Galerius uses several different disguises, it is not obvious at first that all those disguises are the same person. Under the principle of forfeit immunity, a magus who breaks the Code loses the ability to claim its protection. If the magi don’t realize the mysterious stranger''
''is Galerius the Quaesitor, they are probably justified in using magic to track his activities until they find out the stranger’s identity. It is also possible (and perfectly legal) to find out what Galerius is up to by mundane means. His Wizard’s Sigil makes it possible to recognize his disguises. Galerius’ raven familiar is also a clue. Several grogs and companions covering the area can probably track his movements, with difficulty. This can lead to some amusing scenes as mistaken identity leads grogs to shadow innocent peddlers or follow street urchins on a merry chase. There can also be suspenseful scenes where ominous figures seem to close in on the magi from all sides. The bigger the town or village, the harder it is to keep up with this slippery magus. If the characters are able to follow Galerius’ movements, make it possible for them to piece together the nature of his investigation. They can use the same methods he uses — questioning a variety of mundanes to gather a complete picture. This is an opportunity for grogs and companions to shine, as they can question mundanes without The Gift getting in their way. If confronted, Galerius gets angry and strongly hints that the magi have illegally scried on him, even if they tracked him down by mundane means. He then demands they “cooperate” by staying out of his way. In reality, he knows a charge of scrying isn’t strong enough to stick; he is only using it to scare them off.''

==Galerius’ Record and Reputation==

''If the characters have attended Tribunal before, they may have seen Galerius prosecute someone else and witnessed his aggressive style first-hand. If not, it is easy to find magi who were present for his trials. Galerius both investigated and prosecuted all the cases, which is unusual, but senior magi attribute that to personal ambition. In all of the cases, Galerius argued well and pressed for harsh penalties. Several of the magi whom Galerius convicted still reside in the Tribunal, but are reluctant to speak with anyone who is currently the target of Galerius’ investigation. They fear guilt by association.''
''The Tribunal records give details of his cases, though full transcripts are not kept. Galerius has won cases in at least three meetings of the local Tribunal (not necessarily consecutive). Every magus Galerius has charged with a crime has been convicted, though in at least one case, the successful charge was unrelated to the offense that triggered his investigation. Characters who closely examine these records (which are available for inspection, given a season’s advance notice) can easily tell that Galerius is a very thorough prosecutor. They should make an Int + Code of Hermes stress roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Success tells the character that Galerius tends to win his cases by impugning the character of his opponents, often including anecdotes that cast the defendant in a bad light, but may be only weakly connected to the actual case. Three of Galerius’ past cases foreshadow some of his actions in his current investigation.''
''•	 Kraxia of Criamon was originally accused of molesting the fae, but Galerius found that she had been framed by a neighbor, Jürgen of Trier (of House Ex Miscellanea), to cover his own crime. Kraxia was never charged with the original crime, but during the course of his investigation, Galerius uncovered evidence that she had interfered in mundane affairs by helping a local bandit escape mundane authorities. The bandit went on to rob Jürgen’s covenant, so Kraxia was convicted of mundane interference. Both magi were given stiff penalties, amounting to several seasons of service. •	 Iana of Merinita was accused of reneging on the outcome of a certamen she lost to Claudius of Verditius. Both principals voluntarily submitted to questioning under Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, but there were no independent witnesses. Each claimed they had won the certamen, and both appeared to be telling the truth. Galerius found that Iana had used a spell specifically designed to defeat truthdetecting spells (similar to Clear Breath of the Consummate Liar, Guardians of the Forests, page 73), which she could cast without voice and gestures. The spell''
''was of Momentary duration, just long enough for her to tell a short lie, so it was not detected when the Quaesitor checked her for active magical effects at the start of her testimony. Iana was convicted of the low crimes of failing to honor the outcome of the certamen, and of obstructing a Quaesitor’s investigation. Due to the egregious nature of the latter offense, she was banished from the Tribunal. The Tribunal also seized and destroyed the lab text of the offending spell. •	 There had been repeated complaints of Tranio of Jerbiton stealing vis. A different Quaesitor had investigated him once before, without formal charges being brought. Galerius was able to get a conviction by setting up a trap. He simply waited, invisible, at one of the vis sources from which Tranio had been stealing and caught him in the act. Tribunal records mention that he used mundanes as lookouts to know when to set his trap, but the mundanes are not named and were never called to testify.''
''The storyguide should feel free to invent other cases as desired. Galerius’ methods have not yet been called into serious question. Once or twice, magi have challenged his practice of charging them with crimes outside the scope of the original complaint, but none of these challenges has been upheld by the Tribunal. Most of his cases were decided at a private hearing, and were never debated in public before the full Tribunal. Other magi in the Tribunal have mixed opinions about Galerius. They widely acknowledge that he is good at solving difficult cases that other Quaesitors can’t unravel. His methods are considered unorthodox by some, but all acknowledge that they are very effective. Galerius is unafraid to investigate the political elite of the Tribunal as vigorously as he does the youngest magus from a spring covenant. He has no known friends except Ingrid, and perhaps the members of his home covenant. Secretly, many members of the Tribunal fear him, but publicly they applaud his success at rooting out trouble-makers. The story of his pater’s death is well''
''known and provides an important clue as to his motivations.''

==Preparing the Defense==

''It is useful to investigate exactly what Quaesitors are and are not allowed to do. Most of the rules regarding Quaesitors’ conduct are unwritten traditions within House Guernicus, and active Quaesitors do not like to talk about possible misconduct by one of their own. Finding reliable information may require consulting experts outside the Tribunal who are less interested in preserving Galerius’ reputation, or travel to distant libraries. Magi accused of Hermetic crimes are entitled to call character witnesses. Assembling witnesses is a good way to counter Galerius’ penchant for character assassination. Resist the urge to make the characters work too hard to get witnesses to testify; a non-player character who demands favors for testimony is probably not well-regarded enough herself to be influential as a character witness. Any magus the characters have significantly helped in the past should be willing to put in a good word for them now. Likewise, if the magi have lived for years without serious disputes with their neighbors, those neighbors should want to say so. Even the testimony of mundanes is admissible, though it carries much less weight than that of magi, so nearby nobles, clergy, and merchants who are on good terms with them can provide testimony. As the magi contact their prospective character witnesses, story opportunities often arise. Re-connecting with old friends and allies provides an opportunity for them to ask for help with new challenges. Another possibility is that, once reminded of their gratitude toward the magi, those friends and allies express belated appreciation by offering some interesting information that leads to a side story. They might also be able to offer help and advice in the magi’s current legal defense.''

==Solving the Real Crime==

''If someone else committed the crime of which the magi are suspected, try to make it easy for the players to discover the general''
''outline of the crime. The story lies in uncovering the particulars and obtaining evidence that Galerius or the Tribunal will believe. While they investigate the real crime, the magi have to avoid Galerius, who would accuse them of interfering with his investigation or tampering with evidence. If he notices the characters are on the lookout for him, he varies his disguises to make things more difficult for them. Nightwing, Galerius’ familiar, can be a clue to his approach. Mundane ravens can also appear from time to time to add tension.''

==Resolution==

''Galerius is only really satisfied when he brings someone to trial. Barring remarkable circumstances, he brings formal charges against one or more characters at the next Tribunal meeting. If those characters were not planning to attend the Tribunal, they receive an official summons, bearing the seal of the presiding Quaesitor of the Tribunal.''

==Pleading Innocence==

''Quaesitors, including Galerius, possess spells that make it easy to prove someone’s innocence. If the player characters are indeed completely guiltless, they could end the case in a few minutes simply by volunteering to submit to questioning under Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie. Magi are never obligated to submit to magical interrogation, and Galerius is sure to that point out before the questioning begins. There are good reasons not to agree to magical verification in the first place, particularly when facing Galerius, as he has a history of prosecuting magi for information he gathered that was unrelated to the original investigation. One can always refuse to answer questions that are off-topic, but doing so immediately arouses Galerius’ suspicions. Although Galerius insists on multiple precautions to prevent magi circumventing Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, there are no reciprocal assurances that he’s actually casting the spell he claims, rather than, for example, one that makes a person’s breath frosty whenever the caster wishes. Similar''
''ly, it is hard to verify that he isn’t surreptitiously using additional magic while he’s interrogating them, such as his talisman’s Posing the Silent Question effect. He would not do such a thing, but it’s understandable for the magi to distrust him. Galerius suspects tricks. He has past experience with a maga who knew how to fool simple Intellego spells. For this reason, he requires his subjects to also submit to Sense of the Lingering Magic before and after the interrogation. He forbids magi from casting spells or using items of their own while being questioned; if he catches any of them doing this, he assumes they were attempting perjury. He insists on questioning the subjects one at a time and in private, keeping those who have already been questioned separate from those who are yet to testify. He insists that Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie be cast by a Quaesitor: probably himself, but a neutral Quaesitor can be brought in if necessary, though this delays the interrogation, of course. Galerius uses Maintaining the Demanding Spell to carry on the interrogation while maintaining the spell. (Ordinarily, maintaining concentration through a conversation is very difficult: see page 82 of ArM5.) He carries a two-minute hourglass to let him know when he needs to pause the interrogation and re-cast. Galerius carefully phrases his questions to make them difficult to evade. For instance, he doesn’t ask if they “know something,” as a character could then truthfully answer “no” if he merely suspected but didn’t know for sure. He prefers phrases such as, “do you have reason to believe” or “are you aware of,” or even speculative questions such as “is it possible that....” Some of his questions sound paranoid: “Did you discuss this case with anyone else before coming to me?” Unless, in your saga, you have made a specific ruling to the contrary, magi do not have the right to refuse self-incriminating questions. Galerius tries to entrap the suspect. He saves his best entrapping question for last: “Are you aware of any other possible Hermetic crime, high or low, that may not have been reported?” Of course, a character can refuse to answer this or any of Galerius’ questions, but refusal to answer is, in his mind, an indication of guilt. He tries to guess what crime the character may be covering up, and diligently searches until he finds one.''
''Once the characters consent to magical interrogation, Galerius keeps questioning them until he’s satisfied. Galerius believes that refusal to answer any of his questions is the low crime of failing to cooperate with an investigation, but his superiors (and the Tribunal) know that a magus has the right to refuse any question that is irrelevant to the formal cause of the investigation. Galerius threatens, but does not actually prosecute, a magus for refusing to answer his questions. He believes, after all, that he is rooting out threats to the Order. Such a weak charge is not worth pursuing for its own sake. Even if the characters pass Galerius’ scrutiny and proclaim their innocence, he has some lingering suspicions. He’s seen magi try to fool truth-detection spells before. He tries to independently confirm the characters’ testimony before he accepts their innocence. If he doesn’t find any incriminating evidence (of the original charge or any other), he concludes the investigation and never files charges.''

==Finding the Real Culprit==

''If the characters are actually innocent, it is possible to convince Galerius of their innocence before the case ever reaches the Tribunal. This is difficult because the players need to overcome his preconceptions. It requires both sound detective work and delicate diplomacy. The only thing that really dispels Galerius’ suspicions is evidence implicating another culprit. He suspects the evidence might be fake. He’s stubborn, but not blind: if the lead looks credible, he follows it, and he eventually draws the correct conclusion, despite all his attempts to support his original position. Putting Galerius on the trail of the real perpetrator earns his gratitude. He is too self-righteous to feel much guilt over wrongly accusing an innocent magus, but he is aware that to formally accuse the wrong suspect would have been a major blow to his status and credibility. Galerius expresses his gratitude in an unorthodox way: by asking the characters for help in future investigations. He has, understandably, few other friends to whom he can turn. Helping Galerius earns the characters''
''experience points in a positive Hermetic Reputation, such as Reliable or Upstanding, along with the usual rewards of adventures. In time, this former adversary can become a valuable if somewhat prickly friend.''

==Trial==

''Galerius does his best to bring the case against the magi to trial. Because Tribunal meetings are typically held every seven years, it could be years before the characters’ actual trial. The procedure by which Tribunals hear cases is described in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 56–59.''
''Choosing the Principals''
''The Tribunal must first determine who will argue the case. The defense principal is the accused. The prosecuting principal is''
''usually the magus who filed the initial complaint. If the accuser declines to argue the case, the duty falls to a Quaesitor. If there is an accuser, Galerius arranges for him to choose not to present the case so he can prosecute the characters personally. If Galerius investigated the case on his own initiative, he acts as the prosecutor by tradition.''
''Private Hearing''
''A Hermetic trial begins with a private hearing between the defendant, his or her accuser, and the presiding Quaesitor of the Tribunal. The hearing serves two functions: to determine whether the charges have any merit, and to vet the evidence. Unlike a modern trial, all the facts of the case are decided at this private hearing, before the public trial takes place. The dramatic climax of the story will most likely occur during this scene. In this scene, it should become clear that''
''Galerius’ personal feelings are heavily invested in the case. It is important for story purposes that Galerius present all his evidence first. He starts by trying to discredit the accused with any general muck he has been able to rake up regarding the characters’ pasts, their parentes, and their associates. He proceeds to circumstantial evidence, which he takes quite seriously. He concludes with his hard evidence, such as physical clues or eyewitness testimony, presenting it with a triumphant glare at the defendants. In Mythic Europe, the concept of a “conflict of interest” is much less important than it is to modern people. For instance, it is common for a king to judge legal cases in which the crown stands to collect a hefty fine if the defendant is found guilty. Galerius’ personal involvement in the case is bad form for a Quaesitor, but it’s nothing extraordinary. The Tribunal routinely hears cases argued by magi who are bitter enemies. The characters have a full opportunity to dispute Galerius’ evidence with contrary evidence of their own. However, if they try to have Galerius’ evidence thrown out on a variety of grounds (such as irrelevancy), the presiding Quaesitor points out that the purpose of the hearing is to determine the facts only. The relevancy of the evidence is a legal argument that will be heard later in the public phase of the trial. Until now, Galerius has been lucky enough to get away with his highly questionable tactics. He is good at justifying them, and tries to defend them if challenged. He aims to discredit the accused, and is good at doing so. Most of his past cases were decided at the private hearing, so his methods were not exposed to scrutiny by the whole Tribunal. Finally, the fact that all his past opponents were truly guilty of something prevented the Tribunal from taking their counter-claims seriously. Only now, in this trial, is there a chance to shed light on how off-balance Galerius has become. It is permissible for the defendants to question Galerius’ evidence. They can also demand to know how he obtained it. The more deeply they delve into Galerius’ conduct in the case, the more agitated Galerius becomes. He insists that all his rumor-mongering and spying were justified. Clearly, the defendants were a threat to the Order, he says, so he had to pursue all the evidence he uncovered. He insists''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Friend in Need==

''One of the risks of using Galerius as an adversary is that players may come to feel that Hermetic law is unfair, or worse, that the entire Order is made up of scheming, self-serving villains. It is perfectly fine to portray the Order as a political snake pit, if that’s what the players enjoy. You might prefer, though, to populate the Order with a variety of non-player characters, both likable and despicable. This helps make the setting more credible, and it reduces the sense that the players and the storyguide are adversaries. Players are more likely to take an interest in Hermetic law and politics if they feel they have a chance of success in those arenas. While he is generally well-respected, Galerius is not universally well-liked. He has overzealously prosecuted other magi in the past: magi who still reside in the Tribunal, nursing wounded pride and bruised reputations. During vigorous debate at Tribunal, it may become clear to some onlookers that Galerius is overstepping the bounds of propriety. Enduring public persecution from Galerius may win the characters sympathy''
''from some new friends. If, as you roleplay through the Tribunal proceedings, the characters seem ill-prepared or the case is going poorly for them, a sympathetic non-player character can step up during a recess to offer legal and political advice. This is an especially good option if the players are new to Hermetic intrigue and need some guidance. Their new advisers only help them come up with ideas; it is up to the players to execute those ideas. For instance, a friendly magus might point out before the private hearing that a participant in a case has the right to challenge the other side’s evidence, including demanding to know its sources. New allies may also approach the player magi after the Tribunal, regardless of the verdict. They commiserate with the player magi about what a vindictive wretch Galerius is. It should become clear from these conversations that Galerius was just as hard on his other victims as he was on the player magi. The recent case is settled, but these new well-wishers could be useful if the player magi draw Galerius’ ire again.''

|}
''his methods were justified, given the seriousness of their crimes. The presiding Quaesitor gets progressively angrier at Galerius as the sordid details of his tactics unfold before him. Eventually, he begins questioning Galerius directly. If the characters are completely innocent, this fact comes out during the evidence hearing. If the characters have not already provided testimony as to their own innocence, the presiding Quaesitor requests they do so under his magical inspection. The defendants have the right to refuse to submit to magical interrogation, and may wish to refuse even if they have nothing to hide. It is important to retain the moral high ground if they want the Tribunal to sanction Galerius for his overzealous methods, and submitting to magical interrogation weakens the impact of any complaint that Galerius has violated their privacy. If the characters decline to submit to spells, the presiding Quaesitor questions them without magical verification. After all the evidence has been presented and argued, the presiding Quaesitor can recommend that the case not proceed. If the characters are really innocent, even Galerius can see the truth, and he agrees, rather than face the disgrace of having his whole investigation discredited in public.''
''Counter-Claim and Settlement''
''If the private hearing went as expected, the characters have grounds for a countercharge of scrying against Galerius. They may have prepared and published that counter-charge ahead of time, in which case they proceed to a separate private hearing for their claim. If they haven’t filed a complaint against Galerius yet, for procedural reasons they must wait for the following Tribunal. Both parties now have a chance to agree to a settlement. Unless the players have missed the opportunity to call Galerius’ tactics into question, the presiding Quaesitor presses both sides to settle. In exchange for reduction or dismissal of charges against the player characters, he asks them to agree to drop their counter-claims against Galerius. Galerius is ordered to turn over his letter of authority to the presiding Quaesitor, suspending him from duty. He is then sent to Magvillus for several seasons of “study”''
''before his authority is reinstated. He may be permanently transferred to a different Tribunal. Galerius also has to compensate the defendants for their expenses and lost seasons. A nominal fee of three pawns of vis per magus per season should be acceptable. This he pays within one season. The blow to Galerius’ prestige also costs him the support and friendship of Ingrid. Whatever her personal feelings about the trial, House Tremere strongly discourages her from associating with a Quaesitor who has fallen into disfavor.''
''Arguments and Penalty''
''If, after the evidence hearing, Galerius still has his credibility intact and some facts on his side, the case proceeds to the public hearing, where the principals debate how the Peripheral Code should be applied, given the facts of the case. The facts are written into the Tribunal’s official records at the start of this phase of the trial. In the legal argument phase, Galerius has all the advantages. At least some of the facts are on his side, and he has his notoriety to lend weight to his arguments. He feels vindicated and presses for harsh penalties. This should be a frightening time for the player characters.''
''In the end, cooler heads prevail. The Tribunal fails to see the player magi as the looming threat to the Order that Galerius thinks they are. It hands down a minor penalty, such as a fine of vis or a couple of seasons’ compulsory service. However, the defendants have had their misconduct displayed before the entire Tribunal. This earns them a new or increased bad Hermetic Reputation (see ArM5, page 167).''

==Future Charges==

''If Galerius wins his case against the magi, he is not satisfied. Whatever penalty the Tribunal imposed, he is convinced it was too light. He makes a point to keep apprised of any mischief in the characters’ region of the Tribunal, and shows up promptly to investigate. At some point — not necessarily the very next Tribunal — there will be a courtroom rematch. Galerius may bring new charges against the characters, or they may bring charges against him for investigating them unlawfully. If there is a second accusation against the magi, strive to make it decisive. It’s more fun to have a dramatic final confrontation with this adversary than to live in constant dread of yet another trial.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Staging Tips for the Private Hearing==

''The evidence hearing is where the player characters have the chance to bring Galerius’ world crashing down on him. Or they may see it as the chance to clear their names. Either way, it promises to be a dramatic scene. Consider designating a “second” to play the presiding Quaesitor at the hearing. This should be a player whose magus is not on trial. It’s a good way to involve a player who would otherwise be a bystander throughout the hearing. More importantly, it means you won’t have to talk to yourself while roleplaying through what is probably the climactic scene of Galerius’ story. Coach your second ahead of time about how important the Code’s provision against scrying is. Emphasize that Quaesitors are allowed to use magic in''
''their investigations, but they are expected to limit their investigation to relevant facts. Quaesitors who abuse their powers are judged harshly by House Guernicus. The presiding Quaesitor at first is sympathetic to Galerius because of his prestige, but gradually sours on him as he learns how his methods have become corrupt and his judgment clouded. There are several ways to bring the scene to an end. Galerius may lose his composure and devolve into shouting incoherent accusations until the presiding Quaesitor silences him. He may argue with the presiding Quaesitor over the propriety of his tactics, which he loses. Or the player characters may make him realize he overstepped his authority, in which case he is first thunderstruck, then humiliated and contrite to the point of tears.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
