''Creating characters younger than adults is similar to creating adult characters: a player starts with a concept and then selects game specific attributes to define the character in play. Example childhoods are provided for those desiring assistance. Because children interact with the game world differently from adult characters, many of these attributes — Characteristics, Virtues & Flaws, Abilities, etc. — need adjusting when applied to young characters. Like an adult character, a younger character is detailed as he exists at the moment he begins play. For example, if you are creating a 10-year-old character, that character is mechanically defined as he exists at 10, not as you would like to see him as an adult. It is fine to think that the knight’s son you are creating will eventually become a knight, but the character you are playing is not a knight at the time you are creating him. This is important. All characters change, a natural consequence of interacting with other players’ characters and the troupe’s Mythic Europe. Because he is growing, a child character initially changes more than an adult, and Apprentices will help you manage those expected changes. It is natural, although not nec''
''essary, to foresee a desired end for a child character’s growth. While I might be creating a knight’s son as my character, I ultimately envision the character as a knight when he comes of age. Players who enjoy such forecasting can influence a character’s future development by guaranteeing predetermined Virtues and Flaws (see Inherited Virtues and Flaws later in this chapter). Discuss with your troupe how you see these Virtues and Flaws developing, and ask their assistance in steering the character along this path. Besides predetermined Virtues and Flaws, there are methods that allow your young character to change as he grows into an adult. There are also set stages that allow you to change your character if he has not developed to your liking, changing the character so he more accurately reflects your vision of him.''

==General Characteristics==

''Child characters are most obviously distinguished from adult characters by factors derived from their age and size. To be sure, some of these factors are disadvantages''
''to adventuring in Mythic Europe, but even the greatest weakness can be the source of drama for your troupe.''

==Age==

''One of the most important decisions when creating a young character is selecting his starting age. Choose the life stage that you would most like your character to explore: infancy, childhood, or adolescence. Any age is allowable, but some will be more challenging than''

=Creating Young Characters=


[|

==Aging Chart==

''In the chart below, apply the Characteristic Modifier to all of the character’s Characteristics.''
''Age	 Characteristic Size  Modifier Modifier <1 yr –10 –3 1 yr –9 –3 2 yrs –8 –3 3 yrs –7 –2 4 yrs –6 –2 5 yrs –5 –2 6–7 yrs –4 –2 8–9 yrs –3 –2 10–11 yrs –2 –2 12–13 yrs –1 –1 14+ yrs 0 0''

|]
''others. Characters younger than 14 have penalties applied to Characteristics and Size, and these penalties can make play difficult. Infant''
''characters, those age 7 and younger, receive the harshest penalties. A high negative Characteristic modifier and smaller Size makes almost any violent encounter lethal. Child characters, those age 8 through 14, receive a smaller penalty. Such characters also have more choice in their actions, as 8 is the standard age at which most children embark upon their career path. A character’s starting age also determines the number of starting experience points, as detailed later.''

==Characteristics and Size==

''Like adult characters, younger characters have 7 points allocated toward Characteristics, with Virtues and Flaws adding or subtracting points from that total. A score of 0 represents an average Characteristic for the character’s age group. Once determined, Char''

[|

==Example Childhoods==

''The following Ability packages describe how to spend the 45 experience points a character has accumulated by age 5, to speed up character creation. Most of them come from Ars Magica Fifth Edition, though there are some additions.''
''Athletic Childhood: Athletics 2, Brawl 2, Native Language 5, Swim 2 Border Childhood: Area Lore: Area A 1, Area Lore: Area B 1, Folk Ken 1, Living Language 3, Native Language 5''
''Covenant Bred Childhood: Athletics 1, Area Lore: Covenant 2, Folk Ken 1, Latin 2, Native Language 5, Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 Exploring Childhood: Area Lore 2, Athletics 1, Awareness 1, Native Language 5, Stealth 1, Survival 2 Feral Childhood: Animal Handling 1, Area Lore 2, Athletics 2, Awareness 2, Brawl 2, Hunt 2, Stealth 1, Survival 3, Swim 1 Fighting Childhood: Awareness 1, Athletics 1, Brawl 3, Guile 1, Native Language 5''
''Mischievous Childhood: Brawl 2, Guile 2, Native Language 5, Stealth 2 Shy Childhood: Awareness 2, Native Language 5, Stealth 3 Social Childhood: Charm 2, Folk Ken 2, Guile 2, Native Language 5 Traveling Childhood: Area Lore: Area A 1, Area Lore: Area B 1, Folk Ken 2, Living Language 1, Native Language 5, Survival 2 Wilderness Childhood: Athletics 1, Awareness 1, Native Language 5, Survival 3, Swim 1''

|]
''acteristics for young characters are negatively adjusted because of age. Use the accompanying Age Chart to determine a character’s Characteristic Modifier and Size Modifier. The character will eventually outgrow both penalties as he ages.''

==Virtues & Flaws==

''A character’s age has no bearing on the number of Virtues and Flaws allowed. Like their adult counterparts, younger characters have a number of Virtues and Flaws determined by the type of character. Young grogs can have up to three points of Virtues and Flaws, and young companions and apprentices can have up to ten. Many existing Virtues and Flaws are appropriate for younger characters, although some need to be modified to better suit them. At character generation, the number of Virtues must equal the number of Flaws. The exception is an apprentice character who has been studying long enough with his parens to have acquired the Free House Virtue (see Chapter Four: Pueritia). The Virtues and Flaws Rules and Guidelines insert must also be followed (ArM5, page 37).''
''Virtues and Flaws must balance''
''at child character generation''
''Characters do not have to have the maximum number of Virtues''
''and Flaws allowed by charactertype, and you may always choose fewer Virtues and Flaws than your character is allowed.''

==Social Status Virtues & Flaws==

''Every character needs a Social Status Virtue or Flaw. In most cases, a child follows the vocation of his father, a long standing tradition developed from the legal practices of the old Roman Empire. When a child’s parent is socially recognized, the child character has the same Social Status Virtue or Flaw. Designate the Social Status Virtue or Flaw as, “Son of (Social Status)” or “Daughter of (Social Status).” The child has similar privileges and opportunities to the parent, and the same social limitations. The child of covenfolk would have the Free Social Status Virtue: Son of Covenfolk. If the parent is not socially recognized, pick one of the following Social Status Virtues and Flaw. There are many reasons why a''
''person might deny being a child’s parent, some honorable and some less so. Regardless of the situation, children without parents are either bastards or orphans.''

==Apprentice==

''Free Virtue, Social Status The character is an apprentice to an Hermetic magus.''
''Bastard''
''Minor Flaw, Social Status The character is an illegitimate child. The father may be known, by many or a few, but does not recognize the child as his.''
''Orphan''
''Free Virtue, Social Status The child’s parents are unknown or deceased. Someone else serves as the child’s caretaker, either a relative, a kindly cleric, or an institution. If the character starts play as an apprentice, he has the Free Social Status Virtue: Apprentice.''

[|

==Changing Social Status==

''Social Status Virtues and Flaws are likely to change during the course of play. Since a child usually follows her parent’s vocation, most of these changes are minor. Son of Peasant becomes Peasant when the character comes of age. Sometimes, the change is more dramatic and requires a completely different Social Status Virtue or Flaw than was previously''
''possessed. For example, a young squire (Minor Virtue: Son of Knight) kills a priest and becomes an outlaw (Major Flaw: Outlaw). In such cases, simply change the Social Status Virtue or Flaw. You do not need to change other Virtues and Flaws, nor do you need to re-balance the character’s total allotment of Virtues and Flaws to account for the change.''

|]

==Apprentices Virtues That Grant Experience Points==

''Some Virtues, like Warrior and Educated, give characters additional experience points by indicating that the character had a past that warrants such a boon. A younger character’s past is not extensive enough to account for these experiences and such Virtues are prohibited for characters created younger than 14. Both the Skilled Parens Virtue and the Weak Parens Flaw make assumptions about the parens of the character who selects them. Something about the magus is especially strong or uncharacteristically weak. If you are following a standard apprenticeship for the young character (see later), a Skilled Parens must generate a Teaching Source Quality of 18, or have a combined Communication + Teaching of 9, and needs a highest applicable Lab Total of 50. A Weak Parens can only generate a Teaching Source Quality of 8, meaning his combined Communication + Teaching must be –1, and his highest applicable Lab Total can only be 30. The Skilled Parens Virtue and Weak Parens Flaw are prohibited if the apprentice character’s sources of instruction, including parens, covenant, and library, have stats. If the parens is not detailed, perhaps an NPC without stats, then the Virtue or Flaw may be selected. A Skilled Parens has a Teaching Source Quality of 19, and teaches an apprentice Abilities and Arts 12 times (1 season for 12 years). He also has a highest applicable Lab''
''Total of 50 and teaches the apprentice spells three times (one season for three years). A Weak Parens has a Teaching Source Quality of 8 and a highest applicable Lab Total of 30 for teaching spells.''

==Virtues & Flaws That Affect Size==

''All human babies are born Size –3. A normal baby grows to Size 0 by age 14, but not everyone is normal in Mythic Europe. Some characters are smaller or larger than their peers. During the first year, a baby who will become larger or smaller than normal grows differently from other babies, and by the end of that year is noticeably different. A character with a Virtue that increases her Size applies the adjustment after 1 year, so that by her first birthday she is Size –2 (if Large) or Size –1 (if Giant-Blooded). Continue to adjust the character’s Size throughout her childhood. Characters who are smaller than normal remain stunted, and while her playmates grow in size, she does not. Continually adjust a smaller character’s Size downward, keeping in mind that a human baby cannot be smaller than Size –3. This means that smaller characters remain smaller during their childhood. A character with the Flaw Small Frame, for example, will stay Size –3 until he is 12, when he changes to Size –2. A Dwarf stays Size –3 until he is 14, when he becomes Size –2.''

==Inherited Virtues & Flaws==

''In a general sense, Virtues and Flaws denote a character’s strengths and weaknesses. A child character may not have developed such strengths and weaknesses at the point in life at which the player creates him. That is, the player wants the character to develop in a certain way, but wants to play the character before those developments manifest. Inherited Virtues and Flaws allow the player to create that situation. Only magus and companion characters can start play with Inherited Virtues and Flaws. An Inherited Virtue or Flaw is one that hasn’t yet manifested, but will under certain conditions. For example, Bill wants his character, Rufus, to hit a growth spurt at age 10 and sprout up in size, acquiring the Minor General Virtue: Large. At character generation, Bill selects Inherited Virtue: Large. When Rufus turns 10, or thereabout, he undergoes some dramatic change that increases his Size. Until that time, however, Rufus is not bigger than average. The character does not receive a benefit from an Inherited Virtue until it materializes, and the same is true for an Inherited Flaw. An Inherited Virtue or Flaw has the same value, Minor or Major, as the normal Virtue or Flaw, and counts against the total number of Virtues and Flaws assigned during character generation. Use your common sense when selecting which Virtues and Flaws can be Inherited. It need not be a biologi''
''cal event that triggers the Virtue or Flaw manifesting. “Inherited” merely means the potential for the Virtue or Flaw exists within the character or his environment and hasn’t yet materialized. All Inherited Virtues and Flaws must materialize by adulthood (age 21). They can manifest at any age, either through player decision — “I want this to happen when Rufus is 10” — or in response to a gaming session — “That was a very fun encounter and would explain Rufus’ growth spurt; let’s do it!”''

==Child Virtues & Flaws==

''Characters age 20 and younger can select Child Virtues and Flaws, a new type of Virtue and Flaw that reflects childhood boons and banes that are outgrown by adulthood. If you select a Child Virtue or Flaw for your character, you must exchange the Child Virtue or Flaw for another Virtue or Flaw of like value (Minor for Minor, Major for Major) during one of the Transitions of Maturation (see later). Other than the value of the Virtue or Flaw, there is no set pattern for how these things change. Grows Quickly could become Large, Light Touch, Sharp Ears, or Tough. It is up to you and your troupe. A character may have both Child and Inherited Virtues and Flaws. Child Virtues and Flaws must change during one of the Transitions of Maturation, and Inherited Virtues and Flaws must manifest before the character turns age 21.''
''Boundless Energy''
''Minor Virtue, Child Youthful vigor surges through the character, giving him a +3 bonus to Fatigue rolls.''
''Bully''
''Minor Flaw, Child, Personality The character feels compelled to pick on others who are smaller, weaker, or generally less confident. He is likely physically intimidating and relatively unpopular with his peer group because of this. The character has a Personality Trait: Bully +3.''
''Deft Characteristic''
''Minor Virtue, Child The character has a natural affinity for a specific Characteristic and only suffers half the normal Characteristic Modifier penalty (rounded down) due to his age.''
''Dependence''
''Minor Flaw, Child, Personality The character does not feel comfortable without a mentor or someone he trusts watching over him, and is extremely shy of strangers. When completely alone, he suffers a –3 penalty to everything he tries to do, and feels intensely abandoned and fearful.''
''Grows Quickly''
''Minor Virtue, Child The character grows much more quickly than other children. Treat''
''her as if she were one age category higher on the Aging Chart when determining her Size.''
''Inconspicuous''
''Minor Virtue, Child Due to demeanor, disposition, or supernatural meddling, the character is easily overlooked and unnoticed. She gains a +3 bonus on rolls that help her hide and avoid attention.''
''Infatuation''
''Major or Minor Flaw, Child, Story The character is romantically attracted to someone (not a player character) with whom he has no chance of a relationship, whether because it would be inappropriate or simply because it is unrequited. As a Minor Flaw, the character is infatuated with someone who likes him, just not in that way, and is willing to assist him on occasion. As a Major Flaw, the character is infatuated with someone who doesn’t like him, and who uses this emotional advantage to order the character around.''
''Know-It-All''
''Major or Minor Flaw, Child, Personality The character has a deep-seated need to show off her experience and knowledge to others. She cannot resist demonstrating her superiority, and often fails to impress or convince because of her self-centered attitude.''
''Late Bloomer''
''Minor Flaw, Child The character is slow to mature. Treat him as if he were one age category lower on the Aging Chart. For example, a child of 12 would have a Characteristics penalty of –2 and a of Size –2.''
''Protection from Diseases''
''Major Virtue, Child, Supernatural Some supernatural agent — Divine, Infernal, Faerie, or Magic — has granted the character immunity from all diseases. The character can still suffer wounds and other damage, but diseases do not affect him. The reason for such protection''
''could be benevolent, malicious, or accidental, depending on the creature bestowing the protection and its future plans.''
''Turbulence Prone''
''Major Flaw, Child This Flaw is only available for Gifted characters. Whenever you roll a potential botch on a magical activity, whether or not you actually botch, you must also check for turbulence (explained in the next chapter). The character cannot attempt to control this turbulence, as he focuses on preventing the potential calamity represented by the botch dice. The effects of turbulence are always bad.''

==New Flaws==

''These Flaws are appropriate for both children and adult characters.''
''Abandoned Apprentice''
''Major Flaw, Story The character was abandoned by his master midway through his Hermetic training. He knows Hermetic magic and can cast spells and enchant items like other magi. He is not a member of the Order of Hermes, however. Some Tribunals rule that an apprentice has a year to find another parens before he is hunted down and slain like a Marched magus. Most Tribunals rule that abandoning an apprentice is a low crime, and if the character makes his situation known his parens may face legal action. Decide at what age the character was abandoned. Create the character as a regular apprentice up until that age, and then give him experience points based on his age and other Virtues for his life past being abandoned. If the character knows the Parma Magica, he must join the Order or be slain. Even if the character joins the Order, his background continues to cause problems for him.''
''Frail''
''Minor Flaw, General The character is weak of build and easily hurt when undertaking physical activities. He has a –3 penalty to his Soak score.''
''Low Tolerance''
''Minor Flaw, General The character cannot easily withstand pain and fatigue. Increase the penalties for reduced Fatigue levels by one point, and increase the total penalty from wounds the character has received by one point. You also suffer a –3 penalty on rolls for the character to resist pain.''
''Short of Breath''
''Minor Flaw, General The character cannot last as long as others when exerting himself and quickly tires during extended physical activity. He receives a – 3 penalty to all Stamina rolls to avoid fatigue, including rolls to maintain Concentration.''
''Slow Reflexes''
''Minor Flaw, General The character does not react well to surprises. He receives a –3 to his Initiative total in situations warranting a quick response.''
''Suppressed Gift''
''Major Flaw, Hermetic, Story The character has The Gift but cannot access its power, having temporarily lost his magical ability through mishap or some other misfortune. While the Gift is suppressed, the character cannot perform Hermetic magic, improve his Arts, or perform the Parma Magica. His Arts do provide him''
''with Magic Resistance and he continues to suffer the negative social penalties of The Gift. Such a character may still use Supernatural Virtues and Abilities. He may be a member of the Order of Hermes, depending on when his Gift was suppressed. How The Gift returns should be decided by the storyguide. Examples are surviving a laboratory disaster while assisting another magus (perhaps that was how Suppressed Gift was gained), comprehending a Temporary Twilight while in a powerful regio, visiting the Magic Realm and succeeding in some task, or undergoing a year’s instruction from an elder dragon. The troupe should consider carefully how the character will fit into the saga. If he replaces a player’s magus, he has a very serious Flaw. If he replaces a companion, he will become much more powerful when the Story Flaw is resolved. Either approach can work, with care.''

==Abilities==

''Each character gains a number of experience points for Abilities depending on the character’s starting age. After 5 years of age, the character gains 15 experience points a year. Those with the Wealthy Virtue receives 20 experience points per year, and a character with the Poor Flaw receives 10. These can be spent on any Ability the character currently has, General Abilities logical for such a character to have, and Abilities allowed him by his selected Virtues. If the child character has a Supernatural Ability, the player may spend experience points to increase its score. A Gifted character may possess a Supernatural Ability without the corresponding Supernatural Virtue. The player simply selects a Supernatural Ability for the character. This is an option, not a requirement; many Gifted children''

[|

==Optional Rule: Abilities for Infants==

''Most characters will begin play after five years of age, the player having selected an example childhood or created an equal childhood. For players who want to make a character who is five years old or younger, use this optional rule to determine how many experience points he receives. For each of the first five years of a character’s early childhood, he receives 24 experience points per year. 15 of these yearly experi''
''ence points must be spent on a Living Language, typically the child’s parent’s native language, but situations could exist where a second or third Living Language receives experience points. The remaining 9 experience points must be spent in Area Lore, Athletics, Awareness, Brawl, Charm, Folk Ken, Guile, Stealth, Survival, Swim, or any Supernatural Ability the character may have due to a Supernatural Virtue or The Gift.''

|]
''have a Supernatural Ability, but not all. If a Gifted character with a Supernatural Ability becomes an Hermetic apprentice, the Supernatural Ability is usually converted into an Hermetic Virtue (see Chapter 4: Pueritia). Vocationally, children normally follow their same-sex parent. A character between 6 and 14 years old may put experience points in Abilities that his father or her mother uses to make a living. For many characters, this will be either a Craft (Type) or Profession (Type), but exceptions exist. A knight’s son, for example, can put experience points in Ride and Single Weapon. Your storyguide will decide which Abilities are allowed based on the character’s childhood. The child character’s score is limited to half the parent’s vocational Ability score during these years. After 14, the only cap on Ability scores is determined by the character’s age at character generation (ArM5, page 31).''
''If you are making an apprentice character midway in his career, use the standard apprenticeship model. The character receives 19 experience points per year of apprenticeship for the first 12 years, which he should spend on Abilities and Arts. For each of the 3 remaining years, the apprentice gains 40 experience points to spend on spells, with each experience point buying 1 spell level, and 6 experience points to spend on Arts and Abilities. You may deviate slightly from the standard model. In particular, you may want to spend experience points gained during the first 12 years on spells, gaining 1 level of spell for each experience point transferred. Also, the experience points gained during the later 3 years that are earmarked for spells, could be spent on Arts and Abilities. The number of experience points per year is more important than how it is spent: 19 experience points are gained each year during the first 12 years of apprenticeship, and 46 experience points are gained''
''during each of the final 3 years. The allowable level of spells bought at character generation is the same for apprentices as it is for magi (ArM5, page 32). A character’s Ability scores are limited by his age; young characters have a maximum Ability score of 5 (ArM5, page 31). Hermetic Arts are not limited by age.''

==Transitions of Maturation==

''There are three liminal stages that every young character goes through, during which the controlling player may change Virtues and Flaws. These stages appear between the ages of man, when a person steps from one age into the next. The first transitional stage is between ages 7 and 8, when a character stops being an infant and becomes a child, the second between ages 14 and''

[|

==More Powerful than Normal==

''It is conceivable, and even probable, that creating a young Gifted character and advancing him season by season using the rules in this supplement will result in a character more powerful than a magus created using only the main rules found in Ars Magica Fifth Edition. This need not be the case, and that decision lies with your troupe and how far they want to deviate from the standard apprenticeship. The standard apprenticeship''
''model is a useful approximation, explaining how magi characters receive 240 experience points and 120 spell levels for apprenticeship (ArM5, page 29). Characters made using the optional rule Extremely Complex Character Generation, (ArM5, page 33) will probably start play with more experience points. Character made using the rules in this supplement will be different from both those methods, and will generally have more experience''
''points and possibly more Virtues and Flaws. If you want characters at the end of apprenticeship to be of equal power to “stock” magi — those made using the regular rules — limit them to the standard study model. If they are too young to work in the lab, assign them other duties. The maid could always use an assistant, and nothing teaches humility like doing laundry. Not every lesson in life is learned from academia.''

|]
''15, when the child becomes an adolescent, and the last at age 21, when the adolescent becomes a young adult. Similar to other transitions that allow characters to gain and change Virtues and Flaws (see Grogs, chapter 5), natural aging allows characters to change through transitions of maturation. When a character passes through one of these stages, the player may change the character’s Virtues and Flaws. Both must be exchanged for Virtues and Flaws of equal value: Minor replaced with Minor and Major replaced with Major. Childhood Virtues and Flaws change during transitions of maturation. They may be retained through the first two transitional stages, infant to child and child to adolescent, but must be changed by the final transition of Maturation, from adolescent to adult. Inherited Virtues and Flaws may changed during transitions, but can also change at any time before the character turns age 21. Virtues and Flaws that mechanically affect experience points cannot be replaced but can be gained. For example, a child with Affinity in Single Weapon must keep the Virtue throughout his life, but need not necessarily have had it since birth; he may have acquired it on his 14th birthday. Puissant Ability and Art can be replaced, since both Virtues affect an Ability or Art score rather than the experience points used to generate the score. Virtues and Flaws that mechanically affect Characteristic build points can be gained and replaced. A child could replace Increased Characteristics with another Virtue on his 21st''
''birthday. Characteristics must immediately be correctly recalculated, according to lost or gained Virtues and Flaws. Virtues and Flaws that affect Size may be gained or replaced, as long as the character’s Size increases or stays the same, and does not decrease. Thus, a 21-year-old could suddenly become Large, but not Small Framed. A 14-yearold could gain Small Frame, however, since his Size is supposed to increase from –1 to 0 on his 14th birthday, but if he suddenly developed Small Frame, his Size would stay at –1. Virtues and Flaws that reflect a character’s background are only allowed if the character experienced the suggested background in play. For example, a character can only take Enemies if an appropriate enemy has already surfaced in play. Virtues that award experience points are still prohibited for characters younger than 21. On paper, these changes are instantaneous and the character is immediately recalculated if necessary.''
''Make the change during the first season of the year of the age of man that the character is entering: 8, 15, and 21. While not as immediate as on paper, in game this change still happens quickly. A sudden growth spurt or unnatural knack with a particular skill set is fairly natural, especially for children in Mythic Europe. It takes roughly a season for the change to occur, and others will notice that the child is going through a dramatic, but not unnatural, change.''

==A Standard Apprenticeship==

''Most Gifted, Hermetic characters are created as magi, starting play after their apprenticeship. Apprentices allows players to create younger characters, who begin play during or even before apprenticeship. Because this process is dynamic, allowing a multiplicity of starting points, Apprentices offers a model for a standard apprenticeship that can''
''be used as a benchmark. According to Hermetic Law, a student undergoes apprenticeship for 15 years, during which he must be taught one season a year. The other three seasons are at the parens’ discretion. In game terms, the player receives 240 experience points to spend on Abilities and Arts, and 120 levels of spells. What does this look like year by year? One convention that has become standard throughout the Order is to have the apprentice assist the parens when not being instructed. In long-term advancement terms this means one season of Teaching experience points and''
''three seasons of Exposure experience points. The standard apprenticeship model assumes that the parens has a combined Communication + Teaching of 4 and can generate a Teaching Source Quality of 13. Added to 6 experience points gained from three seasons of Exposure, an apprentice gains 19 experience points a year for eleven years of the apprenticeship. In the first year, the parens Opens the Arts, so the apprentice gains Exposure experience in every season, for 8 experience points. During the final three years, the parens teaches the apprentice spells. To teach 120 levels of spells in three''
''years the apprentice’s parens needs a highest applicable Lab Total of 40. Thus, each year the apprentice gains 40 experience points to spend on spells. As learning spells is a Laboratory Activity, the apprentice gains 2 experience points from exposure in every season, for a total of 8 over the year. At the end of the final three years, the apprentice has gained 120 spell levels and 24 experience points. The grand total of 15 years of apprenticeship using this model is 241 experience points and 120 spell levels.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
