''The empirici say that all things are discovered by experimentation (empirica), but we say that some are found by experience (experimentum) and some by reason (ratio)''
''— Galen''
''Philosophy in Mythic Europe is very much an exercise for the rational mind, particularly for those who follow Aristotle. A common opinion is that truth and knowledge cannot be learned from sense data or subjective experience. Truth exists prior to individual experience, so knowledge should come from an objective and unchanging source — reason and theory — rather than from a subjective and changeable phenomenon. Those who indulge in experiments, or empiricae, are often not considered true philosophers at all. Indeed, the medical community refers to a physician who has no formal learning as an empiric (empiricus), since he came by his knowledge through empiricae (experimentation) rather than through reason. Experimental philosophers are the scientists of Mythic Europe. They conduct experiments in the natural sciences to produce practical results, as well as advancing their knowledge of their respective fields. They argue that by interacting with the world, direct experience can be manipulated, and''
''that to ignore the subjectivity of experimentation is a crime against the truth. Experimental philosophy is fundamentally no different from smithing, and its products are no more magical than swords or horseshoes, deriving as they do from the natural principles of God’s creation. An even closer analogy is the regimen of the physicus. While education and knowledge are necessary to design both a regimen and a product of experimental philosophy, neither result is in any way supernatural. The efforts of philosophers are thus unaffected by supernatural auras and do not need to penetrate Magic Resistance to have an effect, nor do they cause Warping, again''
''like medical regimens. No aspect of supernatural magic can enhance the operation of experimental philosophy: vis has no use to the philosopher (unless he also happens to be a hedge wizard or magus); and spells and powers cannot enhance empiricae, although they can duplicate them. However, experimental philosophy and magic are not mutually exclusive; quite the opposite, in fact. Throughout history, right up to its culmination in the theory of Bonisagus, wizards have employed philosophical aspects in their magic. For example, the natural principles expounded by philosophy account for the Shape and Material Bonuses of objects: a bloodstone resonates with wounds through the natural principle of Sympathy, whereas an amethyst grants its bonus through Occult Virtues. Ceremonial casting of Spontaneous spells combines astrological correspondences and material components that are not themselves magical, but which make the supernatural magic more effective. The principles of Arcane Connections and Sympathetic Connections are wholly due to the principles of natural philosophy. In all of these cases — and many more — the subject studied by the empiricus is an adjunct to Hermetic magic, acting to enhance or channel its power to maximum effect.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Experimental Philosophy or Natural Magic?==

''In the thirteenth century the term “natural magic” was used where here we use “experimental philosophy”’ and “empirica,” and where today we would use “science” (albeit in a very different form to modern science). However, in a game like Ars Magica Fifth Edition where the focus is so strongly on supernatural magic, the term “natural magic” is unhelpful since it invokes other connotations in the mind of the reader. If''
''you wish, you may refer to the subject matter of this chapter as natural magic, like the real-world counterparts of your characters would have. Just remember that natural magic is not supernatural magic, and draws its power from the natural world, not from any supernatural realm, even though the laws of the natural world in Mythic Europe act differently to those in the world with which we are familiar.''

==The Lyceum and Experimentation==

''Members of the Hermetic Societas of the Lyceum are true rationalists, believing that the changeable nature of the world makes it impossible to derive conclusions from experimentation, and they do not generally indulge in empiricae. Similarly, they eschew Hermetic experimentation in the laboratory, and do not often pursue original research. Those members who''
''are followers of Bonisagus are more commonly of the lineage of Trianoma. However, their thirst for knowledge makes them excellent theorists, and they often posit scenarios where Hermetic theory is lacking thanks to their superior knowledge of both philosophy and magic. It is left to lesser magi to actually pursue the breakthroughs.''

|}
''Art & Academe Natural Principles''
''Whether or not they consciously recognize them or not, all who employ empiricae are working from a set of rules. Primitive magicians often consider these things to be magic, whereas the cultured philosopher knows them to be merely the principles through which God has ordained the world to act. This section reveals some of the most important of these principles identified by philosophers.''

===Prime Qualities===

''All things have a prime quality that is derived from the matter from which it is made and its essential form. The substance of an object imbues it with its relative amounts of hot, cold, moisture, and dryness depending upon the mixture of the elements within it. (see Chapter Three: Philosophiae, the section on Form, Matter, and Substance, for more details). Prime qualities are any property of a thing that can be readily discerned with the five senses, and include color, weight, flexibility, hardness, and so forth.''

===Contagion===

''As well as prime qualities, substances can acquire second qualities by contagion, or association. Thus, the clothing of a person can take on the qualities of the person wearing it, and the strongest connections of all are between those pieces that were once part of another thing but are now separate objects in their own right. Expressed as pars pro toto, the “‘part for the whole,” the thing that acquires these second qualities can be used to affect the thing that possesses the prime qualities. Magi know the products of this principle as Arcane Connections;, however, not all contagious relationships are Arcane Connections. A wife is a woman with the second quality of her husband, just as the husband is primarily a man and secondarily a husband through contagion. However, most Hermetic magi cannot exploit such weak contagious relationships as Arcane Connections.''

===Affinity===

''Substances can take on third qualities, so that rather than simply acquiring qualities through contact, the secondary qualities of the person are transferred to the object. Thus''
''the crown of a king becomes connected to the king through contagion, and then acquires the regality inherent in the king through affinity, and can be used to demand respect from people. Many Shape and Material bonuses utilized by magi are derived from the principle of affinity; a sword can be used to harm people magically through affinity with its mundane usage. One facet of affinity is sometimes expressed as the principle of antipathy: affinity can repel things with opposite qualities just as it attracts things with the same qualities. Thus, a drum made of wolf skin will frighten sheep, because the drum takes on the qualities of wolf skin by affinity, and wolf skin has the sheepscaring quality of wolves by contagion.''

===Similarity===

''Simply put, similia similibus, or “like to like”, this principle states that an effect resembles its cause. There is an affinity between those things that share similar qualities of virtues, so that a plant or gemstone that is red is likely to have an effect on the blood, one that is hot to the taste is likely to affect choler (which is the hottest humor), plants that are moist grow near water, and a flower that looks like an eye will heal eyesight. Apothecaries often refer to this principle as the doctrine of signatures, acknowledging that God has made some properties of things obvious to the senses. These are the manifest (i.e. obvious) qualities of the things, rather than the prime qualities or the hidden virtues. Similarity imbues many objects with their Shape and Material bonuses. Affinity and similarity together are sometimes combined into a single principle of sympathy, although they are clearly different. However, Sympathetic Connections used by magi draw upon both similarity and affinity, so perhaps the category has merit.''

===Hidden Virtues===

''Not all properties of an object are determined by qualities, contagion, affinity, or sympathy. Objects also have virtutes occultes — hidden virtues — that cannot be explained by their substance. These hidden qualities are granted by virtue of astral influences. For example, herbs ruled by Venus are good for the kidneys and reproductive organs, which are both ruled by Venus, but these virtues are not always broadcast to man through sympathy. All sapphires resonate with wisdom because they are born under Jupiter’s influence, and''
''rubies are literally Martial in nature. While aligned to the principle of astrology (see below), this principle is different; the hidden virtues of an object are determined by its resonance ordained by God, not the astral circumstances at its formation. Hidden virtues are fixed; they do not vary as the stars vary.''

===Astrology===

''All qualities of a thing are determined by the celestial figure — that is, the position of the planets with reference to the fixed stars at the time of its creation. Thus, the natal horoscope of a person can reveal the complexion and temperament of a person, although the exercise of free will prevents a human’s life from being determined by a star. The natal horoscope of an animal can be predict its destiny, as can the inception horoscope of a venture, although the free will of humans can interfere with these fates as well. Under this principle, a herb planted when a hot star such as Mars is in ascendance is hotter in temperament than the same herb grown under the influence of a different planet. Magi employ the principle of astrology in the ceremonial casting of spontaneous spells, and also in the ordering of laboratory work. The schedule of a magus must conform to the rising and falling of the right stars, else the season is wasted (ArM5, page 103).''

==Ligatures==

''A ligature is a small charm consisting of a small sack containing parchment, stones, or herbs typically worn around the neck. All ligatures also contain either an Arcane or a Sympathetic Connection to whomever they are designed to affect. They employ the natural principles to assist a specific action, which usually encompasses a single die roll. For example, a medical ligature might employ the resonance of bloodstone to assist in the healing of a specific wound, or a philosophical ligature might employ basil to exert superiority over a snake. Ligatures cannot benefit seasonal activities such as study or Lab Totals. Any character who knows one of the philosophical arts (Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, or Medicine) can make a ligature; it requires no special knowledge other than that gained from the study of these sciences. However, each ligature is tied to a specific Ability, and a character cannot make, for example, a liga''
''ture of Medicine unless he possesses a score of at least 1 in Medicine, even if he is capable of making a ligature linked to Philosophiae or Artes Liberales. Each ligature takes a few hours to assemble, during which time the character performs the appropriate astrological calculations, locates objects with the correct occult properties, and inscribes the right prayers on parchment. Each ligature requires one Labor Point from an apothecary (see The Practice of Apothecary, Pharmacy). Without access to an apothecary’s stores (or if you are not using these rules), the scholar must find or purchase the required ingredient (as detiled in the Pharmacy section), whic may be difficult or even impossible depending on his circumstances. When creating a ligature, the character must have a clear goal for it in mind, including a specific range of time in which it will act, and the person who will be affected. Many ligatures are made for immediate use, but they may be made up to a year in advance. However, a ligature only operates within a six-hour window on the designated day. Thus, a Philosophiae ligature might be designed to help Carolus of Tytalus ceremonially cast an Intellego Animal spell this morning; this cannot assist Tillitus to cast the same spell, nor will it help Carolus to cast an Intellego Terram spell instead, nor even an Intellego Animal spell tomorrow. After assembling the ligature, the player should roll a stress die and add the character’s Intelligence and appropriate Academic Ability.''

===Creating a Ligature: Int + Academic Ability + Stress Die===

''A botched roll indicates that the components assembled work directly contrary to the action attempted; not only does that action receive a –2 penalty, but it also receives two extra botch dice. The character does not know that a ligature is botched. If the result is nine or greater, then some benefit is gained; compare the total rolled to the Ligature Bonus Table to see what bonus the character receives to the action for which the ligature was made. A ligature has only one use; once the bonus has been granted to one roll, then the particular conjunction of events that the charm affected has passed. However, the components of the ligature are not consumed, so a gem can be reused in another ligature or returned to the jewelry from which it came. An individual can only have one ligature granting him a bonus at any time (even botched ones), because the principles of each interfere with the other.''

==Formulae==

''The most powerful expressions of the empiricus’ study are created through the use of formulae. A philosopher may encounter these formulae during his studies of the Academic Abilities, or else he may develop them himself through practical experimentation with the theoretical knowledge he has gained. A formula is a recipe, similar to a Laboratory Text, which describes how to make one of three products: astrological inceptions (which are learned as part of Artes Liberales), alchemical reagents (which are learned as part of Philosophiae), and pharmaceutical theriacs (which form part of the corpus of Medicine). Creating one of these products is a twostage process. The philosopher must first research the formula — either learning or inventing the formula by accumulating experience points. Second, the philosopher spends one or more seasons in his laboratory''
''concocting the product described by his formula. A formula is described in a manner similar to a Hermetic spell or enchantment, but it is important to note that a formula is not a magical effect, and the parallels with supernatural magic are merely a matter of convenience. Like other empiricae, The Gift is not required to concoct a formula, and Supernatural effects cannot assist in its creation. The process of concocting a formula is very much like Hermetic lab work, and this is no coincidence, for the foundations of Hermetic enchantment lie within the realm of natural philosophy.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ligature Bonus Table==

''Ease Factor  Achieved Bonus  9 +1  15 +2  24 +3 (max)''

==Example Ligatures==

''Ligatures can only affect those things under the purview of the Academic Abilities, but they need not actually affect a roll involving an Academic Ability. For example a Philosophiae ligature can assist on a roll to reveal a fact about a magical animal (which is an Intelligence + Magic Lore roll), and a Medicine ligature can help surgery rolls (which is a Dexterity + Chirurgy roll). The examples below are just that; other effects may be possible for other Academic Abilities. Spells assisted by ligatures must be cast at an approximate time specified when the ligature is made. A ligature cannot assist with the crafting of a ligature.''

===Artes Liberales Possible Ligature Bonuses===

''Grammar: interpreting or translating a text; Logic: figuring out a specific problem or puzzle; Rhetoric: convincing others to a particular course of action, casting a Mentem spell; Arithmetic: a complex calculation; Geometry: architectural rolls to design a building, casting a spell on a place; Astronomy: calculating a horoscope, casting an Intellego spell; Music: performing music, composing music.''

===Philosophiae Possible Ligature Bonuses===

''Natural Philosophy: understanding a specific facet of the natural world, rolls to affect the behavior of a specific animal, casting a spell on an animal or plant; Moral Philosophy: arguing a specific political or ethical issue; Metaphysics: uncovering a specific fact about a supernatural thing using (Realm) Lore, casting a spell on a supernatural target or an inanimate/elemental object; aiming rolls for projectiles (whether magical or mundane).''

===Medicine Possible Ligature Bonuses===

''Wounds: surgical intervention rolls, surgery rolls, casting a healing spell; Diseases: avoiding contraction of a specific disease, prognosis total to combat a disease, casting a healing spell; Poisons: bonus to resisting the effects of a specific poison.''
''Medical ligatures cannot affect either Wound Recovery rolls or Disease Recovery rolls.''

|}
''Art & Academe Researching Formulae''
''A formula has to be researched before it can be used, and researching requires the acquisition of experience points. When a character acquires experience points in Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, or Medicine, any or all of the experience points gained can be placed into learning a formula for that Ability instead. Once the formula has accumulated 5 experience points, it has been learned and can be used to create an empirica. Since those who learn these practical applications of their studies are distracted from the “pure” subjects of academic pursuit, those who know many formulae are often denigrated by other scholars for their dilettante behavior. A storyguide might choose to limit which formulae can be learned from a book based on its subject matter — a summa about healing wounds is unlikely to contain details for creating the formula for a poison, for example. As well as learning formulae inscribed into summae and tractatus of the academic sciences, it is also possible to practice an Academic Ability in a season to learn a formula. In this season of practice, the academic attempts different combinations of the natural principles to produce the effect he desires. No useful product results from this season of experimentation, but the philosopher earns 5 experience points towards the formula (rather''
''than the usual 4 experience points for a season of Practice; ArM5, page 164), thus learning it in a single season. A philosopher can learn a formula that he is unable to create.''

==Concocting a Formula==

''To concoct a formula, the philosopher requires a laboratory. This is similar to a Hermetic laboratory, and the equipment found there would not be out of place in a magus’ sanctum. The philosopher requires at least 500 square feet of floor area and a''
''ceiling at least ten feet high. It must be well protected from the elements. The only difference is that the laboratory of a magus is usually situated in a Magic aura, whereas that of a philosopher may be found anywhere, for the strength of a supernatural aura has no effect on his science. The outfittings of the laboratory depend very much on the specialty of the philosopher; an astrologer will have an astrolabe, armillary sphere, and copious astrological charts; an alchemist will have glass, metal, and earthenware containers and tubes, and jars filled with mysterious substances; and a physician will have herbs and spices drying in the rafters. Philosophers who practice more than one type of formula will have components of each.''

===The Lab Total===

''A philosopher generates a Lab Total that is used for all formulae:''

===Lab Total: Intelligence + Academic Ability + Philosophic Bonuses===

''The Ability used is either Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, or Medicine depending upon which type of formula is being created (Inceptions, Reagents, and Theriacs respectively). The Philosophic Bonuses that add to the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Replicating Formulae with Hermetic Magic==

''Rego Craft magic (see Covenants, page 49) can make any change a mundane craftsman can effect, even when the magus is limited by lack of tools, time, or skill. This magic rearranges the raw ingredients into the formula in an instant. The spell required to duplicate an alchemical reagent or pharmaceutical theriac uses the Rego (Form) guideline that controls the appropriate Form in a natural manner, with the following design considerations:''
''•	 A different spell is required for duplicating each formula guideline. Assembling an alchemical reagent is a Rego Terram spell of base level 3 with Animal and Herbam requisites. Recreating a pharmaceutical theriac is a Rego Herbam spell of base level 3 with Animal and Terram requisites. These requisites do not incur additional magnitudes. •	 The magus must have the formula (written or learned) for the reagent or theriac he wishes to make.''
''•	 When cast, the magus must make a Finesse roll to control the rearrangement of materials. The Ease Factor of this Finesse roll is the level of the formula + 9 (which is +3 for using Rego Craft Magic, +6 for completing an entire season’s work in an instant).''
''A Creo spell can both create the components and assemble them into the correct formula, but is subject to the same design restrictions, including the Finesse roll. The appropriate guideline is either Creo Herbam level 3 with Animal and Terram requisites, or Creo Terram level 3 with Animal and Herbam requisites. Additionally, the spell must be a ritual spell. The base Individual for creating a formula produces a single dose. Craft magic cannot duplicate astrological inceptions, as they do not involve the combination of raw ingredients but the''
''calculation of stellar positions. Since this computation must include the horoscope of the inception itself (see Astrological Inceptions, below), magic cannot duplicate a pre-existing inception either.''

===Brew the Healing Tonic===

''Rego Herbam 4 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind Req: Animal, Terram The raw ingredients for a restorative that gives a +3 to Wound Recovery rolls are combined into a theriac, providing that the caster has access to an appropriate formula. The Ease Factor of the Finesse roll will vary according to the Potency of the theriac; to duplicate the formula for the Mustard Plaster (Level 5, see below) requires an Ease Factor of 16. (Level 3, +1 Touch)''

|}
''Lab Total can never exceed the Ability used in the formula. These bonuses are gained from three sources:''
''•	 Shape and Material Bonuses. Philosophers can benefit from the same Shape and Material Bonuses as Hermetic Magic (ArM5, page 110, as well as any listed in other sources for Ars Magica Fifth Edition). Items employed in this manner are destroyed during the creation of the formula. •	 Risk Modifiers. A philosopher can choose to Experiment just like a magus (see ArM5, pages 107–109). Do not add a simple die roll to the Lab Total, just the Risk Modifier. You will have to interpret the results of the Experimentation, taking care to exclude all supernatural elements. For example, Warping cannot normally result from a disaster in a philosopher’s laboratory. •	 Laboratory Bonuses.''
''Distractions from lab work affect philosophers in exactly the same manner as they do Hermetic magi (ArM5, page 103). The Lab Total is compared against the level of the formula. Each formula has a base level, which is then increased in magnitudes by the formula’s guidelines given below. The final level of a formula is calculated in exactly the same manner as a Hermetic spell; except that a formula has a single parameter (either Detail, Alteration, or Potency depending upon whether it is an Inception, Reagent, or Theriac, respectively), rather than the Range, Duration, and Target of a Hermetic spell. It takes at least a season to concoct a formula. If the Lab Total equals or exceeds the level of the effect, then the philosopher is capable of reproducing the formula; for every season of working on the effect, the philosopher accumulates 1 point for each point by which his Lab Total exceeds the formula’s level. When points have been accumulated equal to the effect’s level, the formula is complete. Thus, if the magician’s Lab Total is twice the level of effect (or more), then it can be completed in a single season. A philosopher need not work continuously on a formula that takes more than one season to complete, but can spread the work over as much time as he desires. Note that some formulae are exceptionally hard — one must study all one’s life and align all philosophic factors to achieve them. Such formulae are famous among philosophers, and many search for Laboratory Texts to speed the route to such legendary concoctions. On occasion such quests lead the character away from the philosophical arts and towards magic.''

===Laboratory Texts===

''When a philosopher successfully completes a formula for the first time, he creates a Laboratory Text detailing precisely what he did, which will assist him in duplicating the formula in subsequent laboratory activities. When using a Laboratory Text to recreate a formula, if the level of effect is greater than the Lab Total of a philosopher, then he cannot reproduce that formula even with the assistance of a Laboratory Text. Otherwise, he creates one copy (or dose) of the work for every five levels (or fraction) of his Lab Total. Doses of Formulae using Laboratory Text: (Lab Total) / 5 (round up)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Converting Characters==

''If you have a pre-existing character with Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, and/or Medicine, you can elect to reduce his score in an Ability in return for formulae. Every 5 experience points removed from a character’s total grants one formula of the appropriate type.''

==The Laboratories of Philosophers==

''Despite their similarities, magi and philosophers cannot automatically use each other’s laboratories; it takes a season of rearranging components to suit themselves. However, a Hermetic magus who also practices empirica (this is unusual, but not impossible) can set his laboratory up to be suitable for both practices. If you are using the Covenants rules, then you can simply treat the philosopher’s working space as an extra laboratory with an Upkeep score of –3. Such a laboratory does not tax the Labor Points (see Chapter Four: Medicine, Pharmacy) of the covenant’s apothecary (if any), since the ingredients are being bought from the covenant’s finances. Laboratory Virtues and Flaws that affect Upkeep can also apply to the stores of an apothecary. If the covenant adopts cost-saving measures or''
''refuses to pay for the apothecary’s ingredients, the character might need to keep track of his stores explicitly again. Many of the other characteristics (including Virtues and Flaws) of a magus’ laboratory can also apply to that of a philosopher, because most of these bonuses and penalties are derived from the natural principles such as Sympathy and Similarity. Many of the bonuses to specific activities can also apply to philosophers at the discretion of the storyguide, so a feature that gives a Creo or Herbam bonus to a magus might give the same bonus to a physician. These bonuses are included in the Philosophic Bonuses of the Lab Total, and are limited by the character’s appropriate Ability. The only difference is that a philosopher cannot receive any benefit from a Supernatural Virtue or Flaw, but he can still suffer the downsides.''

==Extended Example of a Philosopher at Work==

''Martin the Alchemist has learned a Philosophiae formula for creating cement (see below), which is a Level 5 Reagent. Martin has an Intelligence of +2, a Philosophiae of 5 specialized in Reagents, and a philosophic bonus of +4. His lab total is thus 12, sufficient to create this reagent in a single season. He sets to work, and a season later he has completed the formula. He has also created a Laboratory Text for the process, so when he takes another season to make the reagent, this time he gets three doses. Martin spends a season writing out several of his Laboratory Texts, and gives a copy of the text for the cement to Berenger, a fellow alchemist. Martin has also written a trac''
''tatus on Philosophiae explaining how earth can be altered to be as hard as rock, which has a Quality of 6 (his Communication is 0). Berenger spends a season studying the tractatus, for which he gains 6 experience points in Philosophiae. He puts five of these points into learning the formula, and the remaining point into his Philosophiae Ability. Berenger can now attempt to recreate the reagent using Martin’s Laboratory Text. However, Berenger is a less-skilled alchemist than Martin, and his Lab Total is only 8, which is still sufficient to create two doses of the preservative. Without the Laboratory Text he would have accumulated 3 (8 – 5) points per season, and thus taken two seasons instead.''

|}
''Philosophers jealously guard the formulae that they have invented themselves, but even more jealously guard their precious Laboratory Texts. On rare occasions a philosopher can be persuaded to copy out his Laboratory Texts for others to use. This is exactly the same procedure as for a Hermetic Laboratory Text (ArM5, page 102). Before a formula can be reproduced from a Laboratory Text not written by the philosopher himself, he must first learn the formula (see Learning a Formula, above). It is thus common practice for a philosopher persuaded to write a Laboratory Text to also scribe a tractatus on the requisite Ability in the same volume, and as long as the Quality of this tractatus is at least 5, the reader can learn the appropriate formula after a season of study. Laboratory Texts for formulae are very rare, and cost a number of covenant Build Points equal to half their level.''

==Astrological Inceptions==

''An astrological formula is known as an inception, and is learned as part of Artes Liberales. An inception is an astrological chart designed to answer a specific question about a person, object, or future event. These charts take one or more season of observations of the stars and lengthy calculations to create, but once drawn up, it is a relatively easy task to use them. The astrologer completes the table with the horoscope of the person, object, or event that is the target of the inception, performs the last few calculations, and the answer is revealed to him. Thus each formula is generic in nature when created, and is made specific when used. Example: Francis has drawn up two inceptions that address the question “Is N in good health?”, which took a season to create. He can use one with Grim’s horoscope to discover whether the soldier is still alive (“Is Grim in good health?”), and the other to ask the same question about his comrade Branoic (“Is Branoic in good health?”). Alternatively, he can save the second and use it later on behalf of one of his clients. Using the inception requires the nativity horoscope of the inception’s target, which means the astrologer must know the place and date of birth (or making, for an object; or initiation, for an event) of the target. It takes a day to calculate a nativity horoscope, but this only ever needs to be calculated once for each target. Some inceptions can involve two targets — and thus two horoscopes. For example, “Is Amelie inclined to love Francis?” would need the nativities for both Amelie and Francis. No more than two targets can be combined in this fashion.''

===Calculating a Nativity Horoscope: Int + Artes Liberales + Die Roll, Against Ease Factor 9===

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==When’s My Birthday?==

''Characters who grew up in a privileged household are likely to know their birth anniversary, as such things are recorded and celebrated among the gentry and nobility. Regardless of social status, many individuals in Mythic Europe derive their common or baptismal name from the saint’s day upon which they are born, and since every day of the year is assigned to a saint, this vital date can be divined easily. Other than that, a close approximation of a birth date can often be made due to the proximity of the birth to an important festival or event. Place of birth is even more commonly known than birth date. It is up to the storyguide as to how widespread the knowledge of one’s birthdate is in the saga, and how important it is to have the exact date (and location) for an inception. As a guide, if the date can only be narrowed down to a week, or the place narrowed down to a ten-mile approximation, then the inception should be treated as one Detail category less. Thus, a Brief inception only reveals Basic information. The opinion on inceptions within the Order of Hermes is mixed. On one hand, most Tribunals do not consider an inception as''
''scrying, since it involves no use of magic. On the other hand, the requirement for a nativity tends to limit their use. Most magi know the precise date of their birth, and those that do not can resort to magic to determine it. However, this information is usually kept well hidden since a horoscope forms a sympathetic connection to the magus. Some magi even alter records or otherwise falsify evidence to trap those who seek to use this personal information against them. A magus who also studies astrology might use the following spell to divine a target’s natal information.''

===The Genethlialogical Investigation===

''Intellego Corpus 15 R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind The caster learns the target’s place and time of birth. Casting this spell on a magus is tantamount to declaring Wizard’s War, since there is no honest reason for needing this information without the consent of the target. Genethlialogy is the study of days of birth. (base 5, +2 Voice)''

==Inception Guidelines==

''An Inception shares characteristics with Magical Sense spells, in that the information gleaned is imparted directly to the philosopher through the medium of his calculations. Inceptions have a single parameter called Detail, which describes the quality of information imparted:''
''Binary: A one-word answer between two choices (+0 magnitudes) Basic: Provides the equivalent of a threeword answer (+1 magnitude) Brief: Provides a single sentence of information (+2 magnitudes) Thorough: Reveals all relevant information associated with the target of the inception (+3 magnitudes)''
''An inception that inquires about events in the distant future (more than an astrological month away) adds 1 magnitude, as do questions about the past. Queries about the''
''near future (within an astrological month) add 2 magnitudes. Predicted future events are subject to the actions of beings with free will, and may not come to pass. Queries about the present add no magnitudes.''
''Level 2: Learn one visible property of a person or object (e.g. location). Level 3: Sense one mundane property of a person or object, which can be determined from close examination (state of consciousness, age). Level 4: Sense a specific piece of information about a person or object, which cannot normally be determined without an appropriate Ability (an emotion, the maker of an object). Level 5: Sense complex information about a person or object, which would normally require extended use of an Ability (the truth of a statement, all properties of an object).''

|}
''Note that it is impossible to calculate a nativity horoscope if the date and location of the birth of the target are unknown (see When’s My Birthday? for the ease of obtaining this information). Once the horoscope is known, then it takes one minute per level of the inception to complete the calculation and reveal the answers sought. The astrologer must have access to writing materials to use an inception. Even though they are simple products of parchment and ink, astrological inceptions cannot be simply copied, they must be duplicated using the Laboratory Text in the usual fashion. This is because an inception has its own horoscope, based on the day on which it was completed. When using an inception, the calculated relationship between the inception’s own horoscope and the horoscope of the target(s) is the source of the sought-after answer. An inception that is simply copied — rather than recreated with the Laboratory Text — has a different astrological figure than the original inception (it is copied at a different time than the original, and perhaps in a different location as well), and this invalidates the calculations. Copied inceptions cannot therefore provide correct answers except through chance.''

===Example Inceptions===

''In all these inceptions, the placeholders “N” and “NA” stand for the Latin nomen (“name”) and nomen alter (“other name”), indicating the persons, objects, or events represented by the horoscopes used to complete the inception. Frequently “NA” is the horoscope of the astrologer.''
''Is N in good health? Inception Level 3 Detail: Binary By consulting the relative positions of Saturn (the planet of death) and the Sun (the planet of life) in the horoscope, this inception reveals which planet’s influence is strongest in the chart of the named person. (base 3)''
''Is N inclined to love NA? Inception Level 4 Detail: Binary This requires two horoscopes, one for each target. The astrological houses occupied by Venus in each horoscope are either compatible or inauspicious. It does not reveal the feelings of the targets, only whether they have compatible astrological charts. (base 4)''
''Has N told the truth? Inception Level 5 Detail: Binary The attitude of Mercury to Scorpio in the horoscope of the target determines whether he is the sort of person who is prone to deception, and whether today (that is, the last 12 hours) is negatively aspected against truth. Together, these pieces of information reveal whether truth or falsehood is dominant. (base 5)''

===What Will the Weather Be Like===

''tomorrow at N? Inception Level 5 Detail: Basic The angle between the Moon and Mercury, and which stars they bisect in the horoscope of an event occurring on the morrow (such as a fair), reveals the likely weather in that location on the coming day. (base 2, +1 Basic, +2 near future)''
''Will N wage war? Inception Level 10 Detail: Binary This inception requires the horoscope of a person likely to initiate a war. The aspect of Mars in the horoscope indicates whether war should be expected or not. This is an open-ended inception, and it is often more informative if it is restricted to the near future since much can change in the intervening time. (base 5, +1 distant future)''
''What are the real feelings of N? Inception Level 10 Detail: Basic Venus is the planet of feelings and emotions in general, and its attitude to the other moveable stars reveals the dominant emotion of the target in his horoscope, as determined by his complexion. (base 5, +1 Basic)''
''How are the people of N reacting to NA? Inception Level 10 Detail: Brief Given the horoscope of a group of people (such as a town), this inception interrogates Mercury and Virgo — stars most closely related to the community and news — to reveal a brief summary of how they are likely to react as a group to the event or person represented by the second horoscope. It does not reveal what people think about the target, just what they are doing. (base 4, +2 Brief)  Where is the person N? Inception Level 10 Detail: Brief This inception reveals the current location of the named person, within a region of about 30 miles across, and in relation to a particular feature; for example “In the County of Hainault, next to still water” or “north of here, in a building connected to religion in some way.” A different inception is required to discover the location of an object. (base 4, +2 Brief)''
''How fares the battle N? Inception Level 10 Detail: Thorough By charting the motion of Mars, the astrologer can track the vicissitudes of a battle for which he has the horoscope of the day it starts. The inception reveals the state of the combatants at the moment of inquiry in terms of relative numbers of casualties. (base 3, +3 Thorough)''
''Who is the maker of the object N? Inception Level 15 Detail: Thorough The North node of the Moon is the significator of beginnings, and Mercury represents craft. The position of these two in the horoscope of an object will reveal identifying information about its maker — his complexion (and thus his approximate appearance), occupation, interests, and present location. This is not a question about the past, since the maker is a present property of the object interrogated. (Base 4, +3 Thorough)''
''Who was the cause of the death of N? Inception Level 20 Detail: Brief From the horoscope of a dead man, the astrologer can determine a single characteristics of the person most closely associated with the cause of death, such as his complexion (and thus give a good clue to physical appearance) or approximate location relative to his position at the time of the murder. The nature of the information is determined at the time of using the inception, and while it pertains to a person other than the target, that person’s information is still present in the celestial figure of the deceased. The inception is never infallible. For example, the maker of a poison may be more intimately connected with the death than the poisoner, and the perpetrator of a weakened saddle strap that leads to a fatal fall might be miles away from the site of death. If no murder actually occurred, then the answer can be misleading; a spurned lover who committed suicide did so on account of his lover, but she did not willingly cause his death. (base 5, +2 Brief, +1 Past)''

==Alchemical Reagents==

''Alchemical Formulae or Reagents are discovered during researches into Philosophiae. A Reagent is a natural substance made in the laboratory through the combination of minerals, botanicals, and animal components. The substance created may have unusual properties, but not unnatural ones. Thus an alchemical preparation can corrode metal or turn water to ice, but these alterations are simply speeded-up natural processes; a reagent could not turn water into metal, for example. Because the changes caused by Reagents are natural, they have the equivalent of a Momentary Duration, after which time the substance reacts normally according to its type: ice will melt back into water, but compacted dirt remains hard until it is weathered by the elements. Alchemy works directly on the prime qualities of its ingredients. It cannot create new matter, but it can cause alteration (see Chapter Three: Philosophiae, Change in Quality) by increasing the amounts of hot, cold, dry, or moist particles in an object, and thus changing the natural properties. It can enhance a property of a substance (e.g. make a fire hotter, or an acidic liquid more corrosive), or it can rid a substance of that property (extract pure metal from an alloy, or separate sea water into salt crystals and clear water). Alchemists recognize two types of matter. The first they call simple matter, elemental material in its most basic form. Simple matter contains only small admixtures of other types of matter, but the vast majority of its particles are of the same type. Examples include soil and rock, air, water, or a flame. The second type of matter is complex matter, which has significant portions of other types of atoms in its elemental mix, resulting in glass, metal, wood, smoke, clouds, oil, vinegar, lightning, and so forth. Alchemy cannot transform the base substance into another sort, nor can it cause an increase or decrease in the amount of matter. Soil that is made unbreakable is still soil; it has not become rock. Although there are rumors of alchemists who have succeeded in turning lead into gold, the true philosopher scoffs at such tales as impossible through philosophy alone. To concoct a formula, an alchemist requires a well-stocked laboratory. The raw ingredients for his Reagents come from the daily trade of an apothecary; either the character himself or a contact. The requirements for an alchemist are different from those of a physician, for an alchemist often focuses on the mineral stores of the apothecary rather''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Guidance on Using Astrological Inceptions==

''Inceptions have the potential to be disruptive, particularly in mystery-style adventures, although since they take a season or more to create, a storyguide should plan the existence of inceptions into his plot and perhaps even make them part of the solution. To minimize any problems with these divinations, one must be careful that when the formula is designed it does not ask too broad a question. Take into account the following points when designing an inception: A horoscope reveals properties and characteristics, not motivations. Inceptions cannot read minds, but they can reveal if a person is the sort that might fall in love with another, or has a deceitful streak. The stars hold the answers to indirect questions only. For example, there''
''isn’t a planetary configuration that indicates murder, but there are celestial figures related to death. Because of this, a person might be connected to the death of another without actually being a murderer. The stars do not determine destiny. The stars do not guide the fates of the inhabitants of Mythic Europe, they simply reveal it. All humans retain their free will, and knowing one’s destiny is often enough to change it. The stars do not represent absolutes. Even a binary answer is not necessarily “yes” or “no,” but simply reveals whether the horoscope is closer to one celestial figure or another. So, you can’t find out if someone is dead or alive, but you can discover whether someone is closer to death or to life.''

|}

==Reagent Guidelines==

''A Reagent is an alchemical preparation that is the product of a season’s work. When used, it is consumed — each dose has a single use. Once concocted, Reagents have an indefinite shelf-life, but many must be stored carefully due to their potentially volatile nature. Reagents are described by one parameter, Alteration, which determines the magnitude of natural change that the Reagent imposes on the matter. Thus, altering dirt to be as hard as granite (a very hard rock) is more difficult than making it as hard as chalk (which is a soft rock, but still harder than dirt). The parameter of Alteration has one of the following values:''
''Slight: The matter undergoes a subtle change in appearance or property, within the usual range for examples of the matter. E.g. a yellow or orange flame, as salty as seawater. A Slight change cannot affect the amount of damage caused by the matter (+0 magnitudes). Minor: The matter undergoes a noticeable change in appearance or property. The change must be commonly found in nature, and of a general sort. E.g. as hard as rock (but not a specific type of rock), as acidic as vinegar, as cold as ice. A Minor change can add or subtract 5 to or from the damage caused by the matter (+1 magnitude). Substantial: The matter undergoes a significant change in appearance or property. The change is to a degree uncommon in nature. E.g. as hard as marble, as hot as a volcanic spring, as shiny as silver. A Substantial change can add or subtract 10 to or from the damage caused by the matter (+2 magnitudes).''
''Major: The matter undergoes a total change in appearance or property. The change must be no more than the extremes found in nature. E.g. as bright as the sun, as dry as the desert, as pure as possible. A Major change can add or subtract 15 to or from the damage caused by the matter (+3 magnitudes).''
''A Reagent can affect one cubic pace of simple matter, or else fifty cubic inches of complex matter. It can, however, be designed with a size modifier. Each additional magnitude multiplies the base amount of matter by ten.''
''Magnitude Volume of Volume of  Simple Complex  Matter Matter +0 1 pace3 50 inches3''
''+1 10 paces3 500 inches3''
''+2 100 paces3 3 feet3''
''+3 1000 paces3 1 pace3''
''Properties of matter can be changed without apparently changing the object; these include primary qualities such as hot, cold, dry, or moist, as well as secondary qualities such as acidity, density, weight and color.''
''Level 3: Enhance or diminish secondary quality of simple matter  Purify simple matter Level 4: Enhance or diminish principle quality of simple matter Level 5: Enhance or diminish secondary quality of complex matter  Purify complex matter Level 10: Enhance or diminish principle quality of complex matter''
''than on the botanics required by the medical practitioner; nevertheless, the ingredients are the same, and it is merely the quantity that differs. Each alchemical Reagent costs an apothecary’s business 1 Labor Point per 5 points (or fraction) of the level (see Chapter Four: Medicine, The Practice of the Apothecary). If multiple doses are created, then multiply the level of the Reagent by the number of doses before dividing by 5 to get the number of Labor Points worth of materials.''

===Example Reagents===

''Chromatic Flames Reagent Level 4 Alteration: Minor When sprinkled over flames or mixed with fuel, this Reagent causes the flames to burn a different hue, a minor alteration of the color of simple fire. The color is determined by the alchemist when he concocts the formula. One dose of the Reagent is enough to change the color of a medium-sized fire (such as a camp fire), and the flames remain colored until the fire is extinguished. (base 3, +1 Minor)''
''Tinderdry Reagent Level 5 Alteration: Slight When this wool-like substance is rubbed over damp wood, the wood dries sufficiently to be easily lit with flint and steel. Each application is sufficient only to dry a handful of twigs, but this is sufficient to start a fire. (base 5)''
''Cement Reagent Level 5 Alteration: Substantial When sprinkled over loose earth or sand, this dry powder enhances the hardness and cohesiveness of the matter, causing it to bind together and become as solid as granite. Each dose of cement can cover an area about three paces in diameter to a depth of about six inches. (base 3, +2 Substantial)''
''Preservative Reagent Level 10 Alteration: Slight When painted onto wood, this tarry Reagent proofs it against rot and mold, and makes it unpalatable to pests. About two gallons of preservative are made, enough to coat a small hut or boat. (base 5, + 1 Size)''
''Refrigerant Salt Reagent Level 10 Alteration: Minor When the salt-like crystals of this Reagent are scattered onto the surface of water, that water freezes. Up to six-paces diameter of ice can be created at a thickness of about six inches (strong enough to stand on), although unless anchored on one shore, the sheet of ice is unstable. This reagent is ineffective on moving water, where the ice is just washed away. The ice melts normally, according to the weather conditions. (base 4, +1 Minor, +1 Size)''
''Calorific Stone Reagent Level 10 Alteration: Substantial When dropped into water, this pebble''
''like Reagent causes the water to digest into hot particles, and come to a boil in a matter of seconds. A single dose can affect a bathtub full of water. (base 4, +2 Substantial)''
''Fire Damp Reagent Level 10 Alteration: Substantial This Reagent must be kept within a stoppered flask. When opened, a gas is released that will dampen the intensity of flames. The flames will lose 10 points of damage due to the cooling effect of the gas; if reduced to 0 damage they are extinguished. The gas is heavy and remains low to the ground, and in an open area can spread out to cover a 15-foot diameter to the height of two feet. (base 3, +2 Substantial, +1 Size)''
''Smoke Oil Reagent Level 10 Alteration: Minor This Reagent must be kept in a sealed container, for when opened the oily liquid evaporates into a thick gray fog. When fully evaporated, the fog fills about a hundred cubic paces, the size of a large room. In still air this fog is impenetrably dark, but its effect is lessened by wind. (base 3, +1 Minor, +2 Size)''
''Greek Fire Reagent Level 15 Alteration: Substantial This Reagent is typically placed into a clay ball with two compartments to contain each of the two parts of the formula. When mixed (such as when the clay is broken by an impact), these components combust into a eight-foot-diameter sphere of very hot fire that inflicts +15 damage should it hit someone (such fire would normally inflict +5 damage). This fire cannot be extinguished with water, but must be beaten out. (base 4, +2 Substantial, +1 Size)''
''Vitriol Reagent Level 15 Alteration: Substantial This formula creates two pints of strong acid from a weaker acid such as vinegar, and a number of mineral components. This acid is enough to cover an arm-sized object. If it is poured on a single person, it will inflict +10 damage. This acid will also dissolve stone and base metal, and rot wood in an instant; an object the size of a wand, lock, or small bottle can be affected. The acid will dissolve precious metal in about two minutes. The only substance proof against the acid is glass. (base 5, +2 Substantial)''
''Alchemical Steel Reagent Level 20 Alteration: Substantial This metal is a purified form of iron created in the alchemist’s laboratory. It can then be forged by any smith capable of working steel. Objects made of this steel are harder and more resilient to damage without affecting its weight. A blade of alchemical steel need not be sharpened so frequently and has a +2 to damage. Metal armor gains a +2 to its Protection. The formula creates enough Reagent to make a dagger; three doses would make a sword, and six doses would make a suit of partial armor. (base 10, +2 Substantial)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Alchemical Purification’s Shape & Material Bonuses==

''Purification of substances with alchemy can enhance Shape & Material bonuses that derive from the material rather than the shape. For example, silver’s bonus to harm lycanthropes can be enhanced, but not a wand’s bonus to repel things. A Minor Alteration can add a +1 to the bonus, a Substantial Alteration adds +2, and a Major Alteration adds +3. An alchemist preparing a difficult formula might spend time to enhance the ingredients he intends to employ. For example, by improving the purification bonus of sulfur before attempting the Lapis Minor. Members''
''of the Lyceum have also discovered this effect, and employed it in Hermetic Enchantments. Some new Shape & Material bonuses are given below; these can be employed by philosophers and magi alike:''
''Mercury: +2 alter complex matter White Arsenic: +1 enhance primary or secondary quality Sal Ammoniac: +1 diminish primary or secondary quality Sulfur: +2 purify matter Green Vitriol: +1 alter simple matter''

==Volume Conversion Guide==

''Each increase in size on this chart indicates approximately a ten-fold increase in volume.''
''50 cubic inches = 2 pints, 4-inch-diameter sphere, five base Individuals of Aquam (poison), a Small object on the Material and Size table (ArM5, page 97). 500 cubic inches = 2 gallons, 1-foot-diameter sphere, three base Individuals of Terram (precious metal), a Medium object on the Material and Size table. 3 cubic feet = 20 gallons, 2-foot-diameter sphere, three base Individuals of Terram (base metal), five base Individuals of Aquam (corrosive), a Large object on the Material and Size table''
''1 cubic pace = 200 gallons, 4-foot-diameter sphere, base Individual of Ignem, base Individual of Terram (stone), five base Individuals of Aquam (processed liquid), a Huge object on the Material and Size table. 10 cubic paces = 2, 000 gallons, 8-footdiameter sphere, base Individual of Terram (dirt), five base Individuals of Aquam (natural liquid). 100 cubic paces = 6-pace-diameter sphere, five base Individuals of Aquam (water). 1000 cubic paces = 12-pace-diameter sphere, cylinder 20 paces high and half as wide, cylinder 8 paces high and twice as wide, pool 16 paces in diameter and half as deep.''

|}
''Lapis Minor Reagent Level 20 Alteration: Major This formula creates a reddish stone, waxy in texture, the touch of which purifies a precious metal from its alloy. For example, gold that has been adulterated with brass separates into pure gold, pure copper, and pure tin. Only a small object can be altered; no larger than a dagger. This is called the “Lesser Stone;” alchemists have long sought the Greater Stone (Lapis Maior) which will convert pure base metals into gold. In the meantime, they can extract the tiny amounts of gold that are often present in other metals. (base 5, +3 Major)''

==Pharmaceutical Theriacs==

''The term “theriac” is used by commoners and ill-trained medici alike to refer to a cureall; a sovereign remedy to all diseases, wounds, and poisons. Charlatans claim to have found, or alternatively made, the theriac, which they sell to their trusting victims. These ignoramuses are simply confounding the products of numerous medicinal formulae that have apparently miraculous healing ability. In reality, God’s hand is only involved in granting various herbs and stones the ability to heal, and in granting man the knowledge to unlock these hidden properties for therapeutic use. Formulae for Theriacs are learned as part of the Medicine Ability. Recipes can be found in many text books and instruction manuals on the healing arts. Despite the fact that Medicine is not used in the healing of wounds, formulae for Theriacs exist that can cure (or even cause) wounds. Each Theriac requires rare and expensive ingredients that must be supplied by an apothecary (or come from the character’s own stores, if he has Profession: Apothecary himself). Each Theriac costs an apothecary’s business 1 Labor Point per 5 points (or fraction) of the level (see Medicine: The Practice of the Apothecary). If multiple doses are created, then multiply the level for each dose by the number of doses before dividing by 5 to get the number of Labor Points worth of materials required.''

===Example Theriacs===


===Tonic of Gold===

''Theriac Level 5 Potency: Weak''
''This tonic, made with minute quantities of gold, restores a Winded character to a non-fatigued state. It cannot affect a character who has lost more than one Fatigue level. (base 5)''
''Troche of Colocynth Theriac Level 5 Potency: Weak''
''This hard pill of compressed powder mixed with gum will cause immediate and violent evacuations of the bowel if the target fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9. A patient suffering from a melancholic disease who is affected by this theriac is purged of retained humors, and can reroll a failed Disease Recovery roll, but a successful second roll can only have a Stable result, not an Improvement. (base 5)''

==Theriac Guidelines==

''Theriacs can affect the human body, the humors and the faculties, although they cannot directly affect any of the inner wits, just the sensitive faculty as a whole. A Theriac can also be invented that affects animals rather than humans, but a Theriac designed for a human will not work on an animal, and vice versa. Once concocted Theriacs have an indefinite shelf-life, but they are easily ruined if stored in the damp, or where vermin can get to them. Theriacs must either be applied externally or be consumed by the patient. Different formulae are needed to affect Wound Recovery and Disease Recovery rolls. If affecting Disease Recovery rolls, then each Theriac is specific to a humor but not a disease, and is ineffectual against diseases of the wrong humor. The strength of a Theriac is governed by a parameter called Potency, which describes the seriousness of a wound or ailment it can help or hinder.''
''Weak: Affect pain or other symptoms of injury or disease, or Winded Fatigue level (+0 magnitudes). Mild: Affect a Light Wound, a Minor Disease, or Weary Fatigue level (+1 magnitude). Moderate: Affect a Medium Wound, a Serious Disease, or Tired Fatigue level (+2 magnitudes). Strong: Affect a Heavy Wound, a Major Disease, or Dazed Fatigue level (+3 magnitudes). Mighty: Affect an Incapacitating Wound, a Critical Disease, or Unconscious Fatigue level (+4 magnitudes).''
''A Theriac that grants a bonus to a Recovery roll can only affect those wounds indicated by the Potency. Thus, a character with two Light Wounds and one Medium Wound needs a Theriac with Potency: Moderate to grant the recovery bonus to''
''all three of these wounds; if the Potency is only Mild, then only the Light Wounds receive the bonus. Weak Theriacs have a therapeutic effect; by mimicking a symptom they can purge a humor, granting the patient a chance to reroll a failed Disease Recovery roll, although the patient cannot Improve as a result of this second roll.''
''Level 2: Grant a +1 to the patient’s next Wound Recovery roll.  Grant a +1 to the patient’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor. Level 3: Relieve pain. The patient loses Fatigue levels equivalent to the Potency, but the Fatigue penalty induced reduces the Wound and Disease penalties.  Grant a +3 to the patient’s next Wound Recovery roll.  Grant a +3 to the patient’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor.  Reduce the potency of a poison by one step. Level 4: Grant a +6 to the patient’s next Wound Recovery roll.  Grant a +6 to the patient’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor.  Cause a wound if a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is failed. Level 5: Cause a wound if a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9 is failed.  Cure a specific disease, in a time equal to the interval parameter of the disease.  Restore fatigue. Level 10:	Cause a wound if a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 12 is failed.  Cure a wound from a specific source (e.g. poison, crushing damage, piercing damage). The wound entirely heals over the course of a normal interval for the wound.''
''Cataplasm of Mandrake Theriac Level 5 Potency: Moderate This thick paste, or cataplasm, is a secret of the School of Salerno, employing chiefly mandrake and hyoscyamus. When applied to a body part it causes the character to become Tired (loss of three Fatigue levels), but reduces any Wound and Disease Penalty by 3. The body part remains numb until the lost Fatigue levels are recovered. (base 3, +2 Moderate)''
''Mustard Plaster Theriac Level 5 Potency: Moderate When applied to a wound, this linen cloth smeared with ointment containing ground mustard seeds (among other things) grants a +3 to the patient’s next Wound Recovery rolls for all Medium and Light Wounds by drawing out accumulated choler, which causes inflammation. (base 3, +2 Moderate)''
''Tincture of Parsley Theriac Level 10 Potency: Strong This concentrated herbal infusion is an antidote to the bite of any serpent. If consumed immediately following the bite, then the wound (which must be a Heavy wound or less) inflicted by the venom is treated as one category lower. Thus if bitten by an adder (ArM5, page 180), no wound is suffered. (base 3, +3 Strong)''

===Compress of Mallow===

''Theriac Level 15 Potency: Mild This cool bandage made of mallow and cucumber soothes burn wounds, and will heal any Light Wound caused by fire over the course of a week. (base 10, +1 Mild)''
''Concoction of Litharge and Henbane Theriac Level 15 Potency: Strong Combining litharge and henbane with many other unpleasant ingredients such as cinnabar and a mouse stung to death by vipers, this poison inflicts a Heavy Wound on its imbiber, unless he succeeds in a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6. (base 4, +3 Strong)''
''Soporific Sponge Theriac Level 15 Potency: Mighty This Theriac is one of the most precious secrets of the School of Salerno. It combines opium, mandrake, hemlock and hyoscyamus (all horrible poisons if used wrongly) into a hypnotic aid that is soaked into a sponge. This, when held against the mouth and nose for a few minutes, causes deep slumber. The patient is reduced to the Unconscious Fatigue Level, and will remain that way for two hours. When the patient comes around, the Fatigue Penalty he suffers is subtracted from any Wound or Disease Penalty. A surgeon who operates on a patient who has been stupefied with this theriac has a +2 to his surgery roll and rolls 2 fewer botch dice (this can reduce botch dice to zero). (base 3, +4 Mighty)''

===Ointment for Congealing Blood===

''Theriac Level 20 Potency: Moderate This compress of tormentil and comfrey stays the flow of blood and causes flesh to knit back together; it cures a Medium Wound caused by a slashing weapon over the course of a month. (base 10, +2 Moderate)''
''Lochoch of Fox Lungs Theriac Level 20 Potency: Strong This lochoch — a thick syrupy medicine made from boiled honey — will cure phthisis, a Major phlegmatic disease, over the course of a month. (base 5, +3 Strong)''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
