''All four of the supernatural realms have an important presence in Mythic Africa, and they create many stories.''

==The Magic==

''The Imazighen have a rich tradition of magic thanks to a late — and incomplete — penetration of Islam into Berber communities. In Arab folktales, the archetypal “evil wizard” is usually a Berber; ironically the most common stereotype in such tales is a Berber marabout or holy man (see later). Berber wonder-workers also include tattooists who use traditional symbols to invoke luck and health, and a witch-cult that serves a goddess with an ambivalent attitude towards mankind.''

==The Winds of the Desert==

''The old tribes of the Maghreb worshipped nature and the various spirits which resided in the many sacred sites. Most of these spirits have faded away with the coming of Islam and the Divine, but one sort of Magical spirit has persisted, thanks to their wandering nature and their freedom from connection to any one unspoiled locale. These Magical spirits of the desert winds comprise a collection of eclectic and capricious entities who consider the region their home and demense, no matter what beliefs the men there espouse. Seven genii loci and Daimon spirits make up the Council of Winds: the Chergui, the Gregale, the Haboob, the Harmattan, the Khamsin, the Simoon, and the Sirocco.''
''THE Chergui is the east wind, hot and dry, and often manifests as an Arab traveler with a quick temper and a wry sense of humor. The Gregale is a strong, cool wind most often experienced south of Malta. It often manifests as a taciturn and muscular Arab or Greek sailor and seems detached from most of the events in Africa, though it insists on attending any gathering of the spirits. The Haboob represents the howling dust storms, and often manifests as a pack of wild painted dogs which take turns speaking with the same voice, even within the same sentence. It is renowned for having torn apart the lost army of Cambyses II near Siwa in antiquity. The Harmattan is the western trade wind, dry and dusty; it blows out of the south across the Western Desert. It manifests as an apathetic Berber caravaner, often leading a tired and''
''thirsty camel. The Khamsin is a hot, dusty, dry wind which usually blows out of the south for ﬁfty days, beginning after Easter and ending with Pentecost. It manifests as a vindictive and belligerent Egyptian warrior who ages rapidly over the course of the ﬁfty days it rages across the northern coast of Africa. The wind carries a great amount of both dust and sand, as well as terrible plagues, which it takes great joy in spreading. The Simoon is the desert cyclone, ex''
''tremely hot and dry, and locals call it “the poison wind.” The Simoon manifests as a barely veiled woman who loves to dance; she is passionate, capricious, and casually cruel. Finally, the Sirocco is the hot, dustbearing wind that comes from the southeast and often reaches hurricane speeds. In Africa, it prefers to use its Arabic name, the Ghibli, but bitterly acknowledges that Europeans recognize “Sirocco” better. It manifests often as a veiled Tuareg raider, but always as some kind of''
''warrior with a biting falchion and a harsh temper. Sand swirls around its every step. All of these winds roam, visiting the Levant or the Mythic East, occasionally conferring with peers in Iberia, Provence, or the distant North, learning the events of the world. When they gather to discuss matters of Africa, it is in the Kaf Ajnoun, the Hall of Spirits in the Fezzan, near the Tasili n Ajjer. Rising out of the sands, this high rocky mountain, with its citadel-like silhouette, is shunned by the locals for its high temperatures, lack of nearby wadis,''

==Sirocco, the Howling Thirst of the Maghreb==

''At ﬁrst, I thought him just another Tuareg warrior sharing the oasis. Then he looked up at us. Never before had I observed a glance of such ferocious intensity; the air grew noticeably warmer, our guide cried out and stammered about tending to the camels. Even my veteran turb ﬂinched, and this alone was enough to tell me the signiﬁcance of the creature before me.''
''Magic Might: 35 (Auram) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +0, Pre +1, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Season: Winter Conﬁdence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Magical Master, Ways of the Desert; Homing Instinct (Kaf Ajnoun), Improved Characteristics (x2), Piercing Gaze, Second Sight, Self-Conﬁdent, Wilderness Sense; Hunger for Auram Magic, Magical Air, Proud (major), Wanderlust; Anchored to the Desert Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power: Auram x2, Greater Power (Donning the Corporeal Veil, Eidolon, Presence), Major Virtue (Magical Master); Improved Abilities x4, Improved Might x5, Improved Powers (Focus Power, Master of Thirst), Lesser Power (Master of Thirst) Personality Traits: Proud +6*, Unyielding +3, Fierce +3, Wind +3* Reputations: Awesome Force of Nature (local) 5 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack —, Defense +9, Damage — Falchion: Init +3, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +5''
''Fist: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: None. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Ken 3 (detecting fear), Area Lore: Maghreb 6 (caves), Area Lore: Great Desert 6 (ergs), Athletics 4 (charging), Awareness 4 (travelers), Bargain 3 (setting terms), Brawl 6 (dodge), Concentration 3 (Auram effects), Dead Language: Latin 5 (conversation), Dead Language: Punic 5 (conversation), Etiquette 4 (jinn), Folk Ken 4 (ﬁrst impressions), Guile 5 (misleading), Living Language: Arabic 5 (warnings), Living Language: Berber 5 (warnings), Living Language: French 3 (warnings), Living Language: Italian 3 (bargaining), Living Language: Catalan 3 (bargaining), Organization Lore: Berber Tribes 5 (travel routes), Penetration 2 (Auram effects), Second Sight 4 (invisible things), Single Weapon 5 (falchion), Stealth 5 (stalking), Wilderness Sense 4 (ﬁnding oases) Powers: Presence, 0 points, Constant, Imaginem. R: Arc, D: Sun, T: Ind. By concentrating for a few moments, Sirocco may learn anything that happens within the boundaries of the Great Desert. InIm 35 (Base 2, +4 Arc, +2 Sun +1 Constant Effect, +1 non-Hermetic effects): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost; –1 Might cost from Improved Powers)''
''Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init +1, Corpus: Sirocco can assume material form. Cr(Re)Co 25 (Base 5 +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite): Greater Power (25 levels, –3 Might cost, +2 Init) Eidolon, 0 points, Init +2, Imaginem. R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind. Creates an illusionary form that is visible and audible to material beings. The image can move and speak as directed by the spirit and lasts until the spirit has no use for it. CrIm 15 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Conc, +2 Move on command, +1 intricacy): Greater Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost, +2 Init; 15 levels surplus) Master of Sandstorms, up to 7 points, Init 0, Auram. Sirocco may create non-ritual Creo/Muto/Rego Auram effects (with either Terram or Ignem prerequisites) up to 7th magnitude. (Focus power x2; 3 Mastery points spent on Initiative): Improved Powers (1ptIgnem prerequisites, 1ptTerram prerequisites, 2pts+2 Init) Master of Thirst 0 points, Init –8, Aquam. R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part. Removes most of the water from any object. PeAq(Co) 25 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +1 Requisite): Lesser Power (25 levels): Improved Powers (–5 Might cost) Vis: There are seven pawns of Auram vis in the dust on the Sirocco’s clothes or in its cyclone. Appearance: A Tuareg warrior in robes and veil, with sand swirling about his footsteps. There is a falchion at his side. Alternatively, Sirocco appears as a swirling cyclone of dust and sand.''
''and treacherous slopes. It has a Magic aura of 7, and a regio on its summit contains a sumptuous palace where the Wind Spirits are attended by smaller zephyr spirits. In its halls, they discuss the state of the desert and the peoples, and what role, if any, they may choose to take in current or impending events. Most recently, they have discussed the Crusade in Damietta, and how they should respond if the conﬂict spreads west. Other debated topics have included the pirates of the Maghreb, the Romans and Garamantians, and the numerous caravans crossing the Great Desert. They favor actions and individuals that they believe keep the Great Desert a dangerous and wild place. Jinn come here to meet with the Winds, to trade slaves, trinkets, and vis. The Tuareg say the lights and drums of their celebrations can be seen and heard for leagues.''

==Cult of the Sun and Moon==

''In antiquity, the widespread worship of the Sun and Moon resulted in many small shrines being established throughout the Tell. Although the shrines were modest, this devotion was fanatical, recorded time and again by historians as an essential part of Ancient Libyan culture across the northern coast. Animal sacriﬁce was common. In some places, this Sun god was Sol Invictus, but in most, it was the goddess Tafuyt and the Moon was the god Ayyur. These beliefs persisted into the Christian era, with St. Augustine and Samuel the Confessor both reporting attempts by devoted local pagans to force them to sacriﬁce to the Sun Goddess. As part of the legacy of this, any non-Divine supernatural powers are commonly associated with the sun if practiced by a man, or the moon if by a woman. Berber magicians very often have the Cyclic Magic Virtue and/ or Flaw associated with the appropriate planetary body. Sun magicians are known to Berbers under the general name of imhergi (singular amherg), apart from sahirs (see The Cradle and the Crescent, Chapter 3) and elementalists (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 2), who are known under the generic name of asehhar (the Tamazight''
''version of “sahir”). The sun is not a nurturing force to the Berbers, but instead a harsh mistress, the instrument of hardship and woe. Sun magic was taught, so it is believed, by Awettuf the Ant to protect against the world’s evil. The practice of sun magic is academic and impersonal, a means to deﬂect harm and exploit natural forces for the good of humanity. Healing, creation, and summoning are also the sun’s purview, and asehharen are considered sun magicians even if female. Many aspects of Hermetic magic would be considered sun magic by Berbers. Female magicians amongst the Berbers are called settuten (singular settut) regardless of the magic they employ. The settuten are priestesses of the First Mother of the World, who created the world, but also all the evil that plagues mankind. Their magic was taught them by Ayyur, god of the moon and of sacriﬁces. Moon Magic is visceral and passionate; it is often destructive, or uses destructive powers for constructive purposes.''

==The Cult of the Dead==

''For the Berbers, ancestors remain an active aspect of their culture, even in death. They maintain a cult of interaction and communication with their predecessors, calling on them to help guide the present by seeing the future from beyond the grave.''
''ANCESTOR SPIRITS''
''Berber elders and marabouts use dreams to communicate with their honored dead, essentially creating a cult dedicated to the preservation of tombs and the interpretation of dreams sent by spirits. While not strictly necessary, the best place to communicate with an ancestor is within that ancestor’s tomb. The dead maintain the scope of inﬂuence they possessed in life, and dead rulers are considered to watch over the whole of their people. The tomb of the former king of Mauretania, Juba II, is still visited by dream interpreters. To better receive the ancestor spirits’ dream guidance, Berbers constructed special niches within their pyramid''
''tomb complexes in which to sleep and receive their advice. Called “dream houses,” these niches are surrounded by a courtyard, square except for an extension in the middle of the side facing east. In the larger dream houses, the extension contains a small building modeled after the main pyramid tomb. Those who use such a structure gain a +3 bonus to Dream Interpretation checks made to understand dreams received while sleeping there. (See Realms of Power: Divine, page 137 for the Dream Interpretation ability) The largest complex of these tombs sits atop two hills in Mauretania, where''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Tomb of Tin Hinan==

''Set into the mountainside in Tilﬁlalt, the tomb is ten days south of Fes. The Ahaggar Mountains surrounding the tomb have spiritual signiﬁcance to the settuten, since they are the center of the Great Desert, and may be the haunt of Lazz, “the Great Hunger.” The Tuareg tribes take turns enjoying the honor of guarding the tomb and fanatically defend it from outsiders, although they do not halt settuten, regardless of their origin. Tin Hinan’s tomb is the only remnant of her former palace at Abalessa, a multi-chambered structure built on top of a hill. The tomb and the immediate area have a Magic aura of 5. The queen lies in state on a leathercovered bed, wearing seven gold bracelets on her right arm and eight silver bracelets on her left. She is still consulted, via the Divination Ability, for assistance and advice. If a character can understand the Libyan script and language, the inscriptions on her tomb can be studied as summae on all of the settut Supernatural Abilities plus Divination. The Level and Quality vary from 6 to 12 depending on the subject. Anyone resting in the entryway of the tomb with a token of Corpus or Creo vis often beneﬁts from a magical healing sleep. Few realize their good fortune comes from the ghost of Tin Hinan herself.''

|}
''a collection of Berber kings, high priests, and renowned ancestors rest. It is located south of Tahert, and the Imazighen regularly send their best dream interpreters there to divine potential threats to the region and the Berber people. Many other ghosts also haunt the area, and it has a Magic Aura of 3. The one of the most famous tombs is Abalessa, the resting place of Tin Hinan, Queen of the Berber, Progenitor of the Tuareg, and a powerful settut. Tin Hinan originated in the Atlas Mountains, but was driven by a prophetic dream to travel across the desert. She rode on a white camel laden with millet and dates, and was accompanied by her servant Takama. Finding the land empty of inhabitants, she established herself at Abalessa in the Ahaggar Mountains, where she gave birth to three daughters Tinhert (“antelope”), Temerwelt (“hare”), and Tahenkot (“gazelle”) who founded the royal tribes of the Imazighen and Tuareg. Takama was the progenitor of the servile caste. Tin Hinan was unable to abandon her people even at her death, and her shade is bound to the desert. She answers petitions from the Brides of Ayyur and shares what information she can with them. Her overwhelming goal is to aid and protect the Imazighen, and so she remains until the tribes no longer seek her out.''

==Tattoo Magicians==

''Most imhergi are drawn from a variety of learned magicians similar to Cunning Folk (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 101). Among Berber women are the ngagef (singular neggafa), cosmeticians who specialize in this type of sun magic despite being women. Rather than verbal charms, imhergi and ngagef draw temporary tattoos called tawzayt, or else mark similar symbols into the ground or chalked onto buildings. An amherg character should take the Slow Caster Hermetic Flaw to represent this requirement. Instead of chartae and amulets, an amherg creates''

==Tin Hinan the Shade==

''Magic Might: 35 (Me) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +5, Com +2, Str –2, Sta +2, Dex –3, Qik 0 Size: 0 Season: Autumn Conﬁdence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Magic Master; Desert Regio Network, Extractor of Corpus Vis, Great Presence x2, Intuition, Voice of the Desert, Wise One; Crippled, Driven (Protect & Perpetuate the Tuareg), Magical Air; Ability Block (Martial), Anchored to the Desert, Baneful Circumstances (day), Visions Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Intellego) x2, Focus Power (Destruction) x2, Ritual Power x2, Vis Mastery; Improved Abilities, Improved Might x5, Improved Power, Lesser Power x2 Personality Traits: Driven +3, Reclusive +3, Nurturing +2 Reputations: Great and Powerful leader 5 (local), Potent Sorceress 3 (Maghreb) Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense –3, Damage –2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: None. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 2 (the living), Area Lore: Western Sahara 4 (oases), Area Lore: Central Sahara 4 (Tuareg Settlements), Bargain 2 (setting terms), Charm 2 (seduction), Dead Language: Latin 4 (commands), Etiquette 4 (nobles), Faerie Lore 5 (Jinn), Folk Ken 3 (discerning motivation), Guile 1 (concealing intent), Intrigue 2 (spotting conspiracy), Leadership 5 (maintaining alliances), Living Language: Arabic 4 (conversation), Living Language: Berber 5 (commands), Magic Lore 4 (Sahir powers), Organizational Lore: Tuareg Tribes 4 (Traditions), Penetration 4 (Corpus), Teaching 4 (single student) Powers: Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init –2, Corpus: Tin Hinan can assume material form. Lesser Power; Improved Power (–5 Might cost)''
''Focus Power (Divination), up to 7 points, Init (Magnitude –3), Intellego: Tin Hinan may create Intellego Corpus/Imaginem/Vim effects up to 7th magnitude. (3 Intricacy points spent on Initiative) Focus Power (Destruction), up to 7 points, Init (Magnitude –3), Perdo: Tin Hinan may create Perdo Animal/ Corpus/Terram effects up to 7th magnitude. (3 Intricacy points spent on Initiative) Invisibility, 0 points, Init –1, Imaginem. R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind. Tin Hinan (or someone she touches) becomes invisible when she wishes, but can still be seen by Second Sight. PeIm 15 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +1 moving image): Lesser Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost) Ritual Focus Power (Healing), up to 7 points, Init ((2xMagnitude) –3), Creo Corpus: Tin Hinan may create Creo Corpus ritual effects up to 7th magnitude. (3 Intricacy points spent on Initiative); Tin Hinan may use appropriate available vis to power these ritual effects. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are seven pawns of Mentem in Tin Hinan’s bracelets. As long as her body lies undisturbed in her tomb, she uses her Extractor of Corpus Vis Virtue to draw 5 Corpus vis from the aura over the course of a season, effectively utilizing her tomb as her laboratory. At any particular time, she may have up to 20 pawns of Corpus vis available for her Ritual Focus Power. Appearance: Tin Hinan manifests as a breathtakingly beautiful ravenhaired Berber woman of noble mien, sitting cross legged, but with her legs covered. She wears white and blue robes, her lips and eyelids are blue.''
''Tin Hinan has access to some Intellego magics, but she also utilizes the network of Magic regiones in the Great Desert to travel vast distances during the night and learn some of the information she provides to petitioners. She retains some aspects of the destructive powers of her former life, but no longer needs amulets to perform her magics.''
''a permanent tattoo (called an ahadjam) or inscription which is activated once it is uncovered. Once exposed it continues to work until all charges have gone or the duration expires, at which point it fades. An amherg uses Craft: Tattoo rather than Artes Liberales in his Lab Totals, and can beneﬁt from Design & Inscription Bonuses (see Insert) when creating chartae and amulets.''

==The Settuten==

''The settuten (“witches,” singular settut) are primarily a speciﬁc tradition of Berber and Tuareg sorceresses, although any female practitioner of magic is called settut whether she is a member of this tradition or not. Most (but not all) have The Gift, forcing them to live apart from their tribes. The tradition is almost exclusively female; those few men who have become settut act and are treated as women in all respects. Settuten proclaim their status by wearing indigo shawls embroidered with moons and other symbols, and paint''
''ing their lips and lining their eyes with blue makeup. When appearing an ofﬁcial capacity — attending a client, meeting with peers, or ofﬁciating at a ceremony — they stain their foreheads with yellow ochre and saffron. The Berber (but not Tuareg) settuten occasionally go by the poetic name of The Brides of Ayyur (in Tamazight, Tisliten n Ayyur); Ayyur is the Berber god of the Moon, and since the decline of the worship of the Berber gods, the settuten have taken on the role of keeping the old religion alive. Although they have a special relationship with the moon, they act as priestesses for all the Berber gods. Settuten are tolerated by most Berber communities as long as they serve the people; only those tribes with particularly pious members risk angering the local settut. Tuareg settuten are culturally different from their Imazighen cousins and have slightly different magics at their disposal. Tuareg and Berber settuten rarely co-operate with one another. The magic of the settuten is that of the First Mother of the World, the primordial settut. Their magic relies on destruction and erosion. At a base level they can ruin material things: rusting''
''metal, evaporating water, quenching ﬁres, and crumbling stone. More subtly, they can set men arguing with each other by destroying the social conventions that bind them together, ruining friendships and seeding betrayal into the hearts of men. This power extends into the magical arena: they can banish spirits and exorcise demons by negating the power that keeps them on earth. The most feared power of a Tislit n Ayyur is to sever the connection between a man and his magic, setting The Gift to ﬂight and making a mundane out of a magus. The settuten are opposed to practitioners of sun magic, particularly the asehharen (sahirs, members of the Suhhar Sulayman). To Berber minds, sahirs are associated with Arabs, who have been their blood enemies for many centuries, and the settuten consider it their duty to drive out any sahirs they encounter. Settut magic can be devastatingly effective against summoners, since the settuten can dismiss the spirits through which sahirs work their magic, and they can prevent the sahir from summoning more by negating their ability to use magic altogether. The settuten rarely seek to kill a sahir, but they can be relentless in''
''their hounding of one while he remains in Berber lands.''

==Settut Characters==

''A settut may be Gifted or unGifted. If Gifted, the character usually takes''
''the place of a player’s magus character, whereas unGifted members are companion characters. Berber settuten are a Hedge Tradition that has Dissolution, Disjunction, Dismissal, Dissidence, and Magic Sensitivity as its Favored Abilities. Tuareg settuten have Dissolution, Dislocation, Dismissal, Dismay, and Magic Sensitivity as their Favored Abili''
''ties instead. Gifted Settuten do not have to subtract their total score in their Favored Abilities from the source quality to learn other Favored Abilities (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 9). Initiation into the settuten tradition usually occurs sometime between seven and twelve, before the girl reaches puberty. The training provided by the settuten typically takes ten years, during which time the character receives 200 experience points. If the apprentice is Gifted, then part of her apprenticeship is the Opening of The Gift, which gives her all ﬁve of the tradition’s Favored Abilities at a score of zero without needing to take the corresponding Virtues. Opening The Gift uses the Divination Ability (which is not part of the usual Abilities of the settuten, see later), and this usually takes place at a convocation (see later). A settut character can spend the experience points from her apprenticeship on any of these Supernatural Abilities, as well as on General and Arcane Abilities. UnGifted members of the settuten must purchase the tradition’s Supernatural Abilities as a Virtues, and consequently they do not have a full complement of the tradition’s powers. They can be Initiated into other Supernatural Abilities of the settuten after play has begun (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 13), but not all local convocations have access to Initiation Scripts for all the tradition’s Abilities. Infrequently, a settut shows a natural talent for prophecy, which is represented by the Divination Major Virtue. Such a character is called a tineqiqqit (‘seeress’), and is usually marked for greatness; a character is only eligible to become a leader of settuten if she has this Virtue. Characters taking this Virtue can apply apprenticeship experience points to increasing this Ability. Settut may take certain Hermetic Virtues and Flaws that alter the way their magic manifests. This includes: Gentle Gift; Cautious Sorcerer, Cyclic Magic (positive, during the night), Fast Caster, Free Study, Harnessed Magic, Personal Vis Source, Quiet Magic, Side Effect, Special Circumstances; Blatant Gift, Necessary Condition, Painful Magic, Restriction; Careless Sorcerer, Cyclic Magic (negative, during the day), Deleterious Circumstances, Disorientating Magic, Susceptibility to Divine Power, Susceptibility to Faerie Power, Susceptibility to Infernal Power,''

==Design & Inscription Bonuses==

''Design & Inscription bonuses are used like Shape & Material bonuses to increase Lab Totals. They are used by all settuten and imhergi, and they may also be employed by characters with the Craft Magic Virtue (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 132) or the Craft Amulets Ability (Realms of Power: the Divine, page 138). Note that the total bonus gained from shape, material, design and inscription is still limited by the Ability the magician employs in Lab totals (Craft: Iharzen for settuten, Craft: Tattoos for cunning folk, and so on). Portraits: Portraits usually depict a famous ruler, saint, or person, and the character may gain an additional +1 bonus if the ﬁgure pictured is particularly recognizable as great, or is particularly appropriate to the effect. Bonuses: +2 authority, +2 affect subject, +2 affect saint’s patronage, +1 protection Writing: For a writing bonus, the inscription must spell out what the caster wishes the effect to achieve, perhaps calling upon mystic forces or speciﬁc entities. An additional +1 is added if the writing names the target or the caster. Bonuses: +3 affect a limited type of person, +1 control, +1 affect wearer Seal or Symbol: The item receives a bonus if it includes an ofﬁcial seal or symbol. This might be for a particular craft gild, a Hermetic House, an individual’s family, or even the Order. It could also be used to represent people from a speciﬁc kingdom or religion. If the symbol is obviously very old, recognizable, or comes from a distant and exotic location, the item gets an additional +1 bonus. Bonuses: +3 affect only the indicated group, +1 authority, +1 secrecy Image: A design can incorporate an image of any shape found on the Shape & Material Bonuses Table. This gives a design bonus of half the bonus that''
''shape would usually contribute, rounded down. For example, an item depicting a bell (+5 warning) would add a +2 design bonus to a warning effect in the device. Bonus: + (half the image’s shape bonus) Traditional Symbols: Some Berber symbols have particular signiﬁcance due to long association in tattoo magic and inscriptions. Note these are not images of Shape bonuses, but symbols in their own right. There are many of these designs; the most potent are given below. Bonus: see list nearby''
''DESIGN & INSCRIPTION BONUSES FROM TRADITIONAL SYMBOLS''
''Name Bonuses The Beak +3 protect children The Lion’s Paw +4 strength The Fingers +5 avoid disease The Barley +2 affect crops The Partridge Eyes +4 beauty The Gameboard +7 mystic visions,   +3 confusion The Frog +1 enhance magic   powers The Seeds +3 health of plants The Eye +3 luck, +5 versus   natural disasters The Saw +5 versus jnun and   spirits The Snake +3 recovery from   injury The Afous* +5 avert bad luck,   +7 protect against   evil The Sun +2 affect men, +4   harm crops The Moon +2 affect women The Ship + 4 water, +2 wisdom''
''*Called hamsa in Arabic, or the Hand of Fatima, this is the most common protective amulet used in Africa''
''Warped Magic, Weak Magic, Weird Magic. Other Hermetic Virtues and Flaws may also be appropriate. Male settut must take the Transvestite Flaw. Settuten must have a trade to support themselves; they often dispense both advice and health care to nearby villages, and act as exorcist, midwife, physician, and apothecary. Settuten may have the Herbalism Virtue (Art & Academe, page 55) to cover their folk medicine. This trade usually occupies two seasons each year, and settuten normally gain 15 experience points per year. All settuten require a Craft: Iharzen Ability to create the amulets that drive their magic, and usually have scores in Penetration, Finesse, Organization Lore: Settuten, Chirurgy, and a Profession Ability. They may take General and Arcane Abilities at character creation, but not Academic or Martial Abilities unless they possess a Virtue permitting such Abilities.''

==New Virtues and Flaws==

''Accelerated Abilities were introduced in Houses of Hermes: Societates; they advance in the same way as Arts, but are otherwise treated as Abilities in all respects.''
''SETTUT''
''Free, Social Status Virtue The character has been trained as a settut. She may create amulets containing settut powers, and gains the magical defenses associated with her powers. She suffers from the Tamzawit Curse (see later) rather than regular Warping. She may take Arcane Abilities during character creation. She is a member of a local convocation of the settuten and may attend meetings. She must spend two seasons a year supporting herself — usually by performing magic or chirurgery for the local community; the Wealthy Virtue and Poor Flaw affect this as usual. This Virtue is incompatible with other Social Status Virtues and Flaws.''
''DISJUNCTION''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can remove magical powers from others. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Disjunction, which is an Accelerated Ability. This Virtue is not taught to Tuareg settuten.''
''DISLOCATION''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can temporarily shorten the distance between two localities. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Dislocation, which is an Accelerated Ability. This Virtue is only taught to Tuareg settuten.''
''DISMAY''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can destroy self-conﬁdence with her scorn. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Dismay, which is an Accelerated Ability. This Virtue is only taught to Tuareg settuten.''
''DISMISSAL''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can banish spirits, ghosts, and demons. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Dismissal, which is an Accelerated Ability.''
''DISSIDENCE''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can sow discord between friends and lovers. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Dissidence, which is an Accelerated Ability. This Virtue is not taught to Tuareg settuten.''
''DISSOLUTION''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can destroy physical objects. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Dissolution, which is an Accelerated Ability.''
''DIVINATION''
''Major, Supernatural Virtue The settut can interpret signs and omens to learn hidden things. She has a score of 0 in the Supernatural Ability Divination, which is an Accelerated Ability.''
''DUST DEVIL''
''Minor, Supernatural Virtue This variant of the Skinchanger Virtue (ArM5, page 48) allows the character to adopt the shape of a tamzawit, or dust devil. This is similar to the transformation that takes the place of Wizard’s Twilight for settuten (see Warping and the Tamzawit Curse, later), except that she becomes a dust devil of Size +1, can assume the form at any time, and can direct her movement rather than roaming at random. If she undergoes the Tamzawit Curse she loses these features and adopts those described later. This Virtue makes it more difﬁcult for the settut to resist the Tamzawit Curse, and while under its effects she suffers a –3 to all rolls to end the effect. Rather than a cloak or animal skin, the focus object of this Virtue is a glass amulet formed from sand taken from a Magic aura. This Virtue can be taken by nonsettuten characters.''

==Settut Magic==

''The magic of the settuten revolves around the Supernatural Abilities of Disjunction, Dislocation, Dismay, Dismissal, Dissidence, and Dissolution (Magic Sensitivity does not require amulets, but operates as described in ArM5, page 66). Using these Abilities requires the creation of amulets (called iharzen in Tamazight, singular iharz); these are usually made of ﬁred clay, but some are made of other materials such as leather, metal, or even salt dough. An iharz is impressed with symbols from Berber mythology, allowing anyone with the appropriate Ability to recognize their purpose. There are two types of amulet, Greater and Lesser.''
''GREATER AMULETS''
''Making a Greater Amulet is a seasonal activity, but does not require a laboratory, just a sheltered spot in which to work and the necessary tools and materials. To make a batch of iharzen, the character gathers the materials she needs and performs rituals to the gods of the Berbers. The process is physically demanding, and the settut loses one Long Term Fatigue level for the whole season. A settut can take up to ten days absence from making Greater Amulets with no penalty; any more than that and she incurs a –2 penalty per day to the Potency of each batch. A settut can make up to four batches of Greater Amulets in a season, one batch for each Supernatural Ability requiring them. Each batch has a base cost of one pawn of vis per ﬁve points (or fraction) of the Supernatural Ability, and she has to pay this cost for every three amulets she makes. She can make a total number of Greater Amulets equal to twice her Craft: Iharzen Ability, and these are divided however she wishes between the batches. A settut with insufﬁcient vis may choose to make fewer amulets than her maximum.''
''Example: a settut has Craft: Iharzen of 5, Disjunction 9, Dismissal 5, Dissidence 6, Dissolution 12. She can make ten Greater Amulets in total. She makes a batch of six Disjunction amulets for a total cost of 4 pawns of vis, and a batch of three Dissolution amulets for a total cost of 3 pawns. With her last pawn of vis she makes a single Dismissal amulet, although if her Craft: Iharzen were higher she could make three for the same cost.''
''Each batch of Greater Amulets has a Potency, which is used to calculate a Casting Total. This Potency should be recorded on the character sheet. Greater Amulets beneﬁt from the aura modiﬁer of the place of manufacture rather than where they are used. A settut can incorporate Design & Inscription bonuses (see earlier) into a Greater Amulet; her total bonus cannot exceed her Craft: Iharzen Ability. Each amulet in a batch can incorporate different Design & Inscription bonuses.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Settuten and Vis==

''Settuten are able to ﬁnd and identify vis using Magic Sensitivity. They can use it to enhance their Casting Totals, gaining a +1 bonus for every pawn used, and can use a number of pawns at a time equal to the Supernatural Ability used. They also require vis for making Greater Amulets. They categorize vis according to their own magical paradigm. They favor Perdo and Vim vis, as these varieties can be used in any of their magic. They can also use Mentem vis for Dissidence and Dismay, Rego vis for Dismissal and Dislocation, any of the elemental Forms for Dissolution, and Intellego for Magic Sensitivity. They can detect other types of vis for what it is, but cannot use it in their magic.''

==Studying Settut Magic==

''Experience points applied to the settut’s magical Abilities usually comes from Practice; Gifted settuten can also study from vis. Settuten who hound Solomonic sorcerers from Berber lands or exorcise hostile spirits can also earn story experience. Rarely, a settut will agree to teach another in exchange for vis or Greater Amulets. Certain grave sites in Imazighen lands have ancient inscriptions in Phoenician or Libyan, and settuten who understand these languages and read their scripts have found that they encode magical secrets. These texts are studied as if they are tractatus on one of the Supernatural Abilities of the settuten; the Quality is rarely more than 9, and often less if the text is exposed to sun and sand. Very rare and holy sites like the Tomb of Tin Hinan (see earlier) are superior sources of knowledge, and may be studied as summae.''

|}
''GREATER AMULET POTENCY: Intelligence + Supernatural Ability + Craft: Iharzen + Design & Inscription bonus + Aura modiﬁer''
''TOTAL AMULETS CREATED: equal to 2 x Craft: Iharzen''
''VIS COST PER BATCH: (Supernatural Ability/5) pawns for every 3 amulets.''
''LESSER AMULETS''
''Lesser Amulets can be made in a few minutes by a settut with the appropriate raw materials. They can be made from sand, clay, ﬂour, salt, or any other dry sub''
''stance mixed with a binding agent (such as egg white or glue), and marked with Berber symbols with a sharp tool. Every settut carries the necessary materials wherever she goes, and usually has a pouch full of prepared Lesser Amulets ready to be used. There is usually no need to keep a track of a settut’s Lesser Amulets: their Potency is determined when they are used, and it can be assumed that under normal circumstances the settut has one to hand. The Aura modiﬁer of a Lesser Amulet is whatever is applicable to the settut at the time she uses the amulet.''
''LESSER AMULET POTENCY: Presence + Supernatural Ability + Aura modiﬁer''
''USING AN AMULET''
''Each amulet has a single use — to use one of her four principal Supernatural Abilities, the settut employs the iharz (as described later under the separate Abilities) while uttering a brief incantation. Any character with the requisite Supernatural Ability can use an amulet created by a settut; she does not have to be the individual who created the amulet in the ﬁrst place. Settuten rarely share their iharzen, although they do occasionally offer them to other settuten as tribute. The player must state what effect is desired before rolling the die; this sets the Ease Factor of the roll, described later. This Ease Factor may be modiﬁed for Duration (see insert); the range of effect and suitable targets are described for each Ability and cannot be altered unless stated otherwise. The size of a target is irrelevant unless''
''stated otherwise. When the amulet is activated, the settut generates a Casting Total for it. Settut magic that needs to Penetrate to take effect uses the wielder’s Penetration score rather than the creator’s; Penetration Bonus is calculated in the usual manner (ArM5, page 84). For the purposes of magical detection and dispelling, an amulet has a spell level equal to its Potency. Before it is activated, the amulet has a mere trace of magic to investigative magics; this magic can be dispelled, but its equivalent spell level is doubled. However, physically destroying the amulet also dissipates its magic. Once employed (in game terms, when the Casting Total is generated) it radiates magic at full strength.''
''CASTING TOTAL: Amulet Potency + die''
''PENETRATION TOTAL: Casting Total – Ease Factor + Penetration Bonus''
''EQUIVALENT SPELL LEVEL: Amulet Potency''
''The die used in the casting Total is a simple or stress die, as the situation warrants. A Greater Amulet with a Design & Inscription Bonus can be employed in situations where the bonus is inapplicable, but the bonus does not apply to its Potency.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Durations Available to Settuten==

''The default Duration is Lunar Day. A settut can extend this duration by accepting a modiﬁer to the Ease Factor. Other spell parameters (such as Range and Target) cannot be changed unless speciﬁed in the description of the Ability Lunar Day: The spell lasts until the moon sets. Thus if the spell is cast immediately after moonset, it lasts for just over a whole day; if cast just before moonset it ends immediately. See the nearby insert for the phases of the moon. Moon: The spell lasts until both the new moon and the full moon have set. Lunar Year: The spell lasts until the new moon and the full moon have set twelve times. Nineteen Years: The spell lasts until the moon returns to exactly the same place in the sky, which takes nineteen years.''
''Duration Modiﬁer Moon  +3 Lunar Year +6 Nineteen Years +9''

==Phases of the Moon==

''Phase  Rises  Zenith Sets Duration New  6 am  noon  6 pm 3 days Waxing Crescent 9 am  3 pm  9 pm 4 days Waxing Half noon  6 pm  midnight 3 days Waxing Gibbous 3 pm  9 pm  3 am 4 days Full  6 pm  midnight 6 am 3 days Waning Gibbous 9 pm  3am  9 am 4 days Waning Half midnight 6 am  noon 3 days Waning Crescent 3 am  9 am  3 pm 4 days Note that these moon phases are approximated for simplicity.''

|}
''DISJUNCTION''
''The power of the settuten most feared by other magicians is Disjunction: robbing a sorcerer of his supernatural powers. A settut devours the ability to use magic, rendering the target mundane. This Supernatural Ability works on Gifted and unGifted magicians alike, although the power is more difﬁcult against a character with The Gift. It also works on characters with Faerie or Infernal equivalents of The Gift, but not on characters with True Faith, who are immune to the effects of this Ability. The amulets crafted for this Ability are metallic in nature and heavy, but they are brittle and easily broken. The settut can affect a person in one of three ways: he must eat food or drink something that has had a dissolved amulet added to it; he must have it touched to his bare skin; or else he must be manipulated into breaking the amulet in the settut’s presence. Once this happens, the amulet is employed and must Penetrate any Magic Resistance (using the Vim Form) and have a Casting Total equal or greater than the highest applicable Ease Factor to take effect. For example, a character whose Gift has been Opened and also has Supernatural Virtues has an Ease Factor of 21.''
''Ease Factor Effect 12 Gifted character with   no Supernatural Virtues   other than the free one   that comes with The   Gift Virtue 15 unGifted character with   Supernatural Virtues 18 Gifted character with   Supernatural Virtues 21 Gifted character whose   Gift has been Opened''
''A character successfully affected by this power no longer has The Gift or any other Supernatural Virtues for its duration, and therefore cannot use magic. He cannot access any of his spells, nor can he beneﬁt from any Supernatural Virtues he possesses. He cannot perform any actions that require The Gift, but Disjunction does not cancel any ongoing effects. For example, a Hermetic magus retains his Parma Magica until the next sunrise or sunset, but cannot then re-establish it while affected''
''by Disjunction, since using this Arcane Ability requires possession of The Gift. A magus’s Form Resistances are not affected by Disjunction since they do not need to be renewed like Parma Magica. A magus cannot perform any Laboratory activity that requires a Lab Total, but he can study the Arts and write about them. Other magicians are similarly affected. A positive side effect is that by removing The Gift, Disjunction also negates the social penalty it engenders in others. If affected by a Disjunction effect for a year or more, an untrained Gift (that is, where The Gift has not been Opened) does not return when the Duration expires. Some characters appear to lose The Gift entirely, others gain the Latent Magical Ability Virtue instead. The accompanying free Supernatural Virtue is also lost unless it is has a corresponding Supernatural Ability to which the character has already applied experience points; in this case The Gift Virtue is replaced by the appropriate Supernatural Virtue. Other Supernatural Virtues — those paid for with Flaws — are not lost along with The Gift.''
''DISLOCATION''
''Dislocation breaks down the physical distance between places. It allows the settut to cross vast distances in a single night, or escape pursuers. The iharz associated with Dislocation is suspended on a sinew thong around the settut’s neck or the neck of her mount. As she dons the amulet she must have a destination in mind (or else be able to see it), and must immediately commence moving towards that destination. She need not have been to the destination before, but she must be capable of clearly identifying it from its surroundings; this may require an Intelligence + Area Lore roll. Neither the departure point not the destination can be within a regio; and the aura modiﬁer included in the Casting Total for a Lesser amulet is the lowest modiﬁer (or highest penalty) of the departure and destination points. Dislocation effects do not need modiﬁers for Duration; they last until the settut reaches her destination or until she comes to a premature stop. If it is not physically possible to reach the chosen destination using the current mode of''
''transport — for example, a locked gate to a city or a river with no bridge — then the Ability automatically fails. Dislocation does not work on any form of travel other than by foot or while riding a living mount. A settut can lead up to ten other travelers (conscious or otherwise) and their mounts by increasing the Ease Factor by 3, and up to one hundred others by increasing the Ease Factor by 6. These extra targets beneﬁt from the effect as long as they continue to follow the settut. This Ability has to Penetrate the Vim-based Magic Resistance of any travelers; if the destination is protected from magic, then the settut must Penetrate as if trying to enter or cast a spell at the warded area. The Ability somehow devours the distance between origin and destination rather than making the traveler move faster; to herself she seems to be traveling at normal speed, but she reaches her destination sooner. To observers she disappears into a mirage or heat haze. The settut cannot slow down her travel to interact with the landscape or other travelers, although she may end the effect at will by stopping moving. For simplicity the Ease Factor for this Ability is presented as a fraction of the time the journey would take by mundane means at the settut’s normal speed.''
''Ease Factor Relative Speed  9  one half of usual time  15  one ﬁfth of usual time  21  one tenth of usual time  27  one twentieth of usual   time  33  one ﬁftieth of usual    time  39  one hundredth of    usual time''
''Tuareg settuten have arranged for the erection of stone monuments in otherwise deserted locations to act as destinations for this Ability. In particular they mark the entrance points to the network of desert regiones.''
''DISMAY''
''The Dismay Ability destroys the self-conﬁdence of an individual, ﬁlling him with anxiety and doubt and making him more likely to fail a speciﬁed task''
''or activity. The amulets crafted for this Ability are usually brightly colored, for they must catch the eye of the target as the settut utters some withering indictment on the character’s abilities. The victim must hear, but need not understand, the malediction spoken by the settut. The settut must Penetrate any Mentem-based Magic Resistance of the target. Dismay effectively imposes the Ability Block Flaw on the target, for a class of Abilities that is the subject of the settut’s disdain. For example, if the settut insults someone’s logic, this can affect rolls involving Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, any Law, Medicine, and Theology. If she scorns his poor manners, he might be limited on Etiquette, Bargain, (Organization) Lore, and Folk Ken rolls. Should she denigrate his prowess in battle then all uses of Martial Abilities could be affected. Storyguides should ensure that the effect targets about ﬁve or six clearly deﬁned Abilities directly related to the object of Dismay. A settut cannot affect Supernatural Abilities or Arts, but she can target Arcane Abilities such as Finesse and Penetration. Only rolls and totals that include the afﬂicted Ability are penalized.''
''Ease Factor Effect 12  Target cannot spend   conﬁdence points on   the speciﬁed activity; 18  As above, plus the   target suffers three   extra botch dice to do   with the activity; 24  As above, plus the tar   get suffers a –1 to all   rolls to do with the   activity; 30  As above, but the   penalty is –3 rather   than–1;''
''36  As above, plus the target must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9 before even attempting the speciﬁed activity; this   roll can be modiﬁed   by any Cheerful,   Proud, or Optimistic   Personality Trait; and penalized  by Depressed, Difﬁdent,''
''or Pessimistic    Personality Traits;''
''42  The target cannot    even attempt the   speciﬁed activity, so   convinced is he of   inevitable failure.''
''DISMISSAL The Dismissal Supernatural Ability forces supernatural creatures to ﬂee the vicinity of the settut and not return to the area until the effect’s Duration has expired. While dismissed, the creature must avoid the location described by the character or suffer pain and discomfort. The iharz created for this Ability are large — about six inches across and an inch thick. They are used by crumbling them in the hand — a trivial matter taking a few seconds — and casting the resulting powder around the area to be protected. While spreading the ﬁne powder, the settut must identify a specific realm through her incantation to the Berber gods. If the character omits or incorrectly states the source of the target’s Might, her Dismissal attempt fails. The settut and the creature or creatures to be dismissed must be within the designated area when the Ability is used. She can also cast the powder on an object or person (including herself), forbidding creatures from the affected realm from approaching within the designated distance. However, Dismissal can Warp the warded creature, object, or area as a continuing mystic effect (ArM5, page 167–168; furthermore, if the Amulet Potency is 30 or more this counts as a powerful mystical effect). Dismissal cannot be used as a generic ward; it banishes the creatures present when the amulet is used and prevents those speciﬁc creatures from returning, but will not dismiss creatures not present when the amulet is used even if they are of the same type. The player compares the Casting Total to the Ease Factor as described below. Multiple creatures of the same realm may be dismissed from the designated location without affecting the Ease Factor. The Dismissal must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of each creature from the designated realm that is present; those who fail are dismissed, those who succeed are unaffected.''
''Ease Factor Area  3  An area ten    paces across  6  Structure  9  Boundary''
''A successful Dismissal attempt expels all affected creatures from the designated area, whether the character is aware of them or not. The only way to avoid Dismissing friendly creatures of the same realm as the one targeted is to include the True Name of the target of the banishment (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 34). The Dismissal remains in effect for the Duration of the effect. If a person or object is the focus of the Dismissal, the effect travels with her, and affected entities must ﬂee the area, structure, or boundary she currently occupies; if the latter two areas are inappropriate (not in a building or area with clear boundary), then the area defaults to ten paces across. The area cannot be extended beyond a standard Boundary. A dismissed creature must depart the designated location by the quickest means available to it. The creature may attempt to return to the designated location by succeeding in a Stamina + (Realm) Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12, where the applicable (Realm) Lore is the origin of the character’s Dismissal Ability (the Magic Realm for most settuten). If the designated location is within an aura that is aligned with the character’s Dismissal Ability, the creature’s roll is modiﬁed by the Realm Interaction Table (ArM5, page 183). If the creature succeeds, it may enter the designated location, but its Might Score is reduced by one-half the character’s Dismissal score. If the creature’s Might Score would be reduced to zero or lower, the creature may not enter. If the creature leaves the designated location, its Might Score returns to normal. While an affected creature is in the designated location, it also suffers overwhelming pain and discomfort (and the negative modiﬁers) as described in Weight of a Thousand Hells (ArM5, page 148). This extreme discomfort causes most creatures to develop a deep enmity for the character who banished it. Infernal and other creatures of appropriate temperament may develop an obsession with exacting revenge on the character. If the creature is unable to avenge the banishment, it seeks allies or assistance in punishing the character. Friendly creatures may not go to these''
''lengths for revenge, but few will be pleased at suffering the torment of banishment.''
''DISSIDENCE''
''Dissidence breaks down the social bonds that keep society together. It can be used to break a peace treaty, set brothers against each other, or ruin a merchant’s business. It is said that with this power, the settuten caused a war between the Umayyad summoners and their servile jinn. The Ability cannot destroy the affection resulting from the True Love or True Friend Virtue or Flaw, nor can it affect a character with True Faith, although those who interact with such a character may be affected as normal. Furthermore, like all settut magic, it cannot weaken that which is already broken; preexisting dislike or hatred cannot be strengthened. The iharz created by this Ability looks like bread or hard tack and made from ﬂour paste. Although unpalatable, it can be passed off as poor quality food, or softened in wine to make it edible. Dissidence affects just one individual, although settuten often affect both partners in a relationship with a dose each. The settut speciﬁes the target– partner pair when using the magic; the target is the one affected by her magic, and the partner is the individual for whom the target’s feelings will change as a result of Dissidence. This must be a personal relationship between two individuals, not between an individual and a group of others. The target must touch the amulet in the presence of the settut, while thinking about the partner to be affected. A settut typically engages the target in ‘innocent’ conversation about that individual before offering him the iharz as food.''
''Ease Factor Relationship 12 Affect characters with   no prior relationship,   such as between two   strangers, or a sahir   and a jinn he has   never summoned   before''
''18 Affect a casual relationship, such''
''as between a mer   chant and his regular   customers, or a sahir   and a jinn he    regularly summons 24  Affect a trusted    or long term    acquaintanceship,   such as between a   master and his pupil,   or between cousins,   or a sahir and his   khadim 30  Affect a close friend   ship, such as between   childhood friends or   siblings 36  Affect a loving relation   ship, such as between   husband and wife, or   parent and child 42  Affect devotion, such   as between man and   God''
''The base effect makes the target dislike the partner, leading to slander, resentment, and a refusal to cooperate with her. The affected individual always thinks the worst of the partner in any given circumstance, and the partner suffers a –3 penalty to all social interaction rolls with the target. Increasing this animosity to hatred adds +3 to the Ease Factor. Targets made to hate the indicated partner desire to do some kind of harm to her, but stop short of killing the person. The target treats his partner as if she were responsible for some horrible moral turpitude (much like the effects of The Blatant Gift). The target might destroy his partner’s ﬁelds, ruin a business opportunity, wreck their marriage, or perhaps wound them in a duel. The partner suffers a –6 to all social interaction rolls with the target. Increasing hatred to loathing adds another +3 to the Ease Factor, and infects the target with a consuming passion to destroy everything the partner has wrought, resulting in him attempting to slay her. All effects are cumulative with the effects of The Gift. Dissidence must Penetrate the Magic Resistance (as a Mentem effect) of the target to have its desired effect, and lasts until the Duration expires. However, once the effect ends, the intensity of the former relationship is often diminished as a consequence of actions taken''
''while under magical compulsion. This cooling off lasts at least as long as the Duration of the effect, but the relationship may be damaged permanently.''
''DISSOLUTION''
''Dissolution destroys physical matter. The Ability can affect large quantities of raw materials like stone and water, or smaller amounts of processed materials like leather or wine. A settut can use this power to kill living plants, but not living humans or animals. Dissolution cannot affect matter that has already been broken or spoiled by magical or mundane means. If the matter destroyed would naturally replenish, such as plants regrowing or a spring renewing, then the Duration of the Dissolution effect represents the time that must elapse before natural regeneration takes over. For example, a Duration: Lunar Year effect can stop plants from growing in the affected spot for a whole year. The amulets created for this power must touch the affected material. They are either burnt in a ﬁre, dissolved in a liquid, or pulverized and scattered over the object affected.''
''Ease Factor Effect 12  Weaken perishable   matter like cloth,   leather and wool 15  Destroy perishable    matter like cloth,    leather and wool;   extinguish ﬂames;   wither herbaceous   plants 18  Weaken strong    materials like wood   and bone; spoil   liquids 21  Destroy strong    materials like wood   and bone; evaporate   liquids; kill woody   plants 24  Weaken durable    materials like stone,   metal and magical   objects 27  Destroy durable    materials like stone,   metal and magical    objects; dry up   springs''
''The amount of material destroyed depends on the type: one cubic pace of raw matter like plants, natural stone, water, or ﬁre; or one cubic foot of processed materials such as cloth, leather, wood, dressed stone, metal and processed liquids, although the settut can disintegrate part of a larger object up to this size. The settut can affect a greater number of individuals (or parts of the same individual) in a single use of this Ability as long as they all have the same source. So she may destroy all the water drawn from the same well, all the barley grown from the same batch of seed, all the stones from the same quarry, all the leather from one workshop. All affected objects must be covered by the dispersal of the amulet. For each +3 to the Ease Factor, increase the number of individuals tenfold. Berber communities tend to build walls from stones drawn from many different sources to ward speciﬁcally against this magic. If the settut desires precise Dissolution (such as carving a statue with this power), this requires Dexterity + Finesse rolls against an Ease Factor of at least 9, but it could be higher for complex or large projects.''
''DIVINATION''
''This is a variant of the Virtue found in Chapter Seven of The Mysteries Revised Edition. More information can be found''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ceremonial Bonuses for Divination==

''Only those divination methods commonly used by settuten are listed here; see The Mysteries Revised Edition page 61 for more options.''
''Divination method   Description   Ceremonial Bonus Aleuromancy   burning or cooking ﬂour  Herbam +2, crops +5 Alomancy   patterns in thrown salt  Aquam +1, Terram +2, weather +3 Ashagalomancy   casting bones   Ghosts +3, Corpus +4 Capnomancy   fumes from burning poppies Imaginem +2, dreams +2, mental illness +3 Eosophoromancy*  movement of Venus   Romance +5, beauty +3 Geomancy   patterns in earth or dust  Kingdoms +2, Terram +5 Necromancy   the body of Tin Hinan**  +10 events affecting the Imazighen as a whole Ophidomancy   behavior of serpents  Supernatural creatures +3, health & medicine +4 Ornithomancy*   behavior of birds  Elections +3, judgments +2 Pyroeimancy*   movement of Mars  Ambition +3, war +5 Scapulomancy   roasting shoulder blades  Farming +2, herds +5''
''*used only by Tuareg diviners **see the Tomb of Tin Hinan, earlier''

|}

==Example Divinations==

''IS TINITREN JUST MISSING, OR IS SHE DEAD?''
''An Intellego Corpus base 4 allows the settut to “sense general information about a body.” Assuming she is holding an Arcane Connection, then the Ease Factor is 5 (Base 4, +1 touching Arcane Connection). The divination must Penetrate Tinitren’s Magic Resistance, if any.''
''DID IZEMRASEN STEAL MY SHEEP?''
''This is an Intellego Mentem base 10 “discover the truth of a statement.” The divination must Penetrate Izemrasen’s Magic Resistance, if any. Ease Factor 15 (Base 10, +1 Eye)''
''WHO STOLE MY SHEEP?''
''This uses the same base as above, but the Target must encompass the number of suspects. A village might have 100 souls, and have an Ease Factor of 30 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 Size). If thief has Magic Resistance and the effect does not Penetrate, then the settut fails to get an answer, unless someone else knows he did it.''
''IS THERE A VIS SOURCE ON THAT MOUNTAIN?''
''Ease Factor is 20: Intellego Vim base 1 “detect the presence of vis,” +3 magnitudes for Sight Range and +4 magnitudes for Boundary Target. If the settut has an Arcane Connection to the mountain, the Range drops to Touch for Ease Factor 10.''
''WILL THE CROPS GROW NEXT YEAR?''
''As it stands, this question breaks the Limit of Time. However, it could be conceived as “are the plants healthy enough to grow?,” in which case this uses the base 3 Intellego Herbam “learn a single speciﬁc fact about a plant,” adjusted to Ease Factor 20 for Range Touch and Target Boundary. Alternatively, it could check for sufﬁcient water using the level 2 Intellego Aquam “get an image of water within range,” at Ease Factor 15 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +4 Boundary); or check if the soil is fertile using the base 4 Intellego Terram “learn one mundane property of an object” at Ease Factor 25. All three of these would give the closest answer possible, but cannot account for upcoming drought, disease, or disaster.''
''there. Divination allows interpretation of signs and connections to answer questions. The divination is inherently interpretive rather than predictive, and is still subject to the Limit of Time. It is possible to make judgments about future events, but only based on current knowledge. Divination produces results equivalent to non-Ritual Hermetic Intellego spells of any Form. Divination cannot provide magical senses or allow the character to communicate with animals, plants, rocks, and the like. The Duration is always limited to Momentary, enough to answer a single question, although the answer need not be brief (ArM5, page 149). If the character has an Arcane Connection held in her hand when performing a Divination, this counts as Range Touch rather than Range Arcane. Finally, Divination may answer questions about Boundary Targets without the normal ritual requirement or Size modiﬁers (although Size may be needed for other Targets). Divination does not employ amulets like other settuten magic. There are two types of Divination available. Casual Divination takes one round, and allows the character to observe casual signs in her immediate environment. The storyguide may add an Omen Bonus of +1 to +3 if the omens observed are particularly relevant; for example, watching cloud patterns for a divination about weather. Ceremonial Divination takes 15 minutes per magnitude of the spell being duplicated. The diviner can incorporate two types of bonus. A Ceremonial Bonus is deter''
''mined by the relationship between the phenomenon observed and the nature of the question. A diviner knows one divination method for each point of his Divination Ability. See nearby table for typical Divination methods. A Sympathetic Bonus is the sum of any multipliers from Arcane Connections and sympathetic connections to the target (ArM5, page 84).''
''CASUAL DIVINATION CASTING TOTAL: Perception + Divination + Aura bonus + Omen Bonus + stress die''
''CEREMONIAL DIVINATION CASTING TOTAL: Intelligence + Divination + Aura bonus + Ceremonial Bonus + Sympathetic Bonus + stress die''
''EASE FACTOR: Spell Level''
''PENETRATION TOTAL: Casting Total – Ease Factor + Penetration Bonus''

==Dispelling Magic==

''Unlike other magical traditions, the settuten lack passive Magic Defenses. Instead, they avert hostile magic (from any Realm) through the active dispelling of incoming spells. Dispelling calls upon the settut’s tradition’s Supernatural Abilities through a durable talisman called a jedwel made out of metal or stone; these jedwel are commonly worn on a headband on top of the settut’s shawl, and she loses the ability to dispel the corresponding type of magic if she no longer carries the jedwel (although the ability is not transferred to anyone who wears it instead). She can create a replacement jedwel in a few days if the appropriate materials are available. Dispelling is similar to Hermetic Fast Casting. The settut must be able to make an incantation to the Berber gods and must have her jedwel on display. With the exception of Disjunction dispelling (see below), she can only dispel a spell or power as it is being cast, and she must be aware of the casting: she must see or hear the caster, or perhaps use her Magic Sensitivity to detect an incoming spell. The effect must be targeted at herself or a single individual or object that she is touching. She must also equal or exceed her opponent’s Initiative Total on a roll of Quickness + Finesse + stress die. Failure means that her dispelling attempt occurs too late to affect the magic directed at her. Secondly, she must choose which''
''dispelling effect to invoke since she only has time to activate a single jedwel. If she is not familiar with the magic being used against her, she can either guess, or discern the effect by making a roll of Perception + Magic Sensitivity + stress die against an Ease Factor of (21 – spell magnitude), or (21 – Ease Factor/3) for Supernatural Abilities, or (15 – Might/5) for supernatural creatures. If this roll fails she must resort to guessing; if the roll botches she chooses an ineffectual jedwel. Next calculate the Jedwel Total, which is a roll of Stamina + Supernatural Ability + stress die. The Ease Factor for this roll is equal to the spell level or Ease Factor of the effect to be countered, or (5 x Might cost) of a supernatural power, with a minimum of the creature’s Might. Note that dispelling targets the magic itself rather than the producer of the magic, so Penetration is not normally necessary. If the Jedwel Total equals or exceeds the Ease Factor, then the effect is dispelled, and does not take effect.''
''DISPELLING SPEED: Quickness + Finesse + stress die against Initiative Total''
''DETERMINING EFFECT: Perception + Magic Sensitivity + stress die against Ease Factor of (21 – spell magnitude) or (21 – Ease Factor/3) or (15 – Might/5)''
''JEDWEL TOTAL: Stamina + Supernatural Ability + stress die against Ease Factor of spell level or Ease Factor''
''Each jedwel is tied to a particular Supernatural Ability of the settuten, and can only affect a certain type of magic. The jedwel themselves take the form of traditional Amazigh symbols; see the insert earlier for their form.''
''Dislocation: The Lion’s Paw in onyx or black enamel. It can counter any aimed spells by sending them to a harmless location. Dismissal: The Saw, made in gold or enameled in yellow. It can counter the offensive powers of any supernatural creature. It cannot affect powers that are Range: Personal or of continuous Duration. Dissolution: The Eye, made from greened copper or green enamel. It can counter any effect that creates a magical medium by dissolving, evaporating, quenching or otherwise destroying the material. Dissidence or Dismay: The Afous, usually from blue stone or using blue enamel. It can counter any spells that directly affect the mind or body of the settut, or the substance of the touched object. Disjunction: The Snake made in silver or white enamel. This jedwel acts differently to the other four varieties, in that it can dispel preexisting magic of any type. It cannot be used to counter magic as it is being cast, and so does not require a roll for Dispelling Speed, but instead takes place in the settut’s usual turn. The settut must be able to touch the target of the spell, and this dispelling method is usually used to break curses rather than used on a creature under the inﬂuence of beneﬁcial magic. The Ease Factor for a Disjunction Jedwel Total is halved if the settut created the effect herself.''

==Warping and the Tamzawit Curse==

''A settut gains Warping points through the usual methods, although she does not take Warping points from living within a strong Magic aura, as normal for characters with Magic abilities. However,a settut does not suffer the same effects of Warping as regular folk. Instead she suffers a unique form of curse, causing her body to dissolve into a whirling column of sand and wind called a tamzawit. Berbers believe that all sandstorms and dust-devils are the ghosts of witches, and they might not be far from the truth. Old settuten with a high Warping Score become immense storms incapable of returning to human''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds: The Settuten==

''Many stories could revolve around the powers and activities of the settuten.''
''THE BROKEN GIFT''
''A boy intended to become a magus’s apprentice is kidnapped by a cadre of veiled women and taken to be subjected to Disjunction. Can the magus get to the boy in time to prevent the quenching of his Gift? Can he negotiate with the settuten, or is magical warfare the only option?''
''SUN VERSUS MOON''
''A covenant that manages to offend the local settuten might ﬁnd themselves blacklisted, and the target of hostile magics. The structure of the covenant is probably protected from Dissolution by an Aegis of the Hearth, but its source of water or its crops might not be. The covenfolk could be cursed with Dissidence, destroying any lasting relationships with the local community.''
''Some characters might seek to destroy their hedge wizard enemies, but ﬁnd themselves opposed by numerous foes as well as the local Berber community. Other characters might prefer to attempt rapprochement, although this could be a struggle due to the effect of their Gift on their enemies.''
''FOREWARNED IS FOREARMED''
''A cabal of sahirs, perhaps as a prelude to an Arab invasion of Berber territory, concoct a plan to murder the tineqiqqiten at the grand convocation. Without these individuals, the settuten can no longer Open The Gift, and they may lose some or all of the Initiation Scripts. Through premonitions and omens the tineqiqqiten have an inkling of their fate, and are seeking allies. Of course, the settuten do not reveal the reason for the proposed alliance to the characters, at least not all at once.''

|}
''form, and cursed to wander the desert wastes. The change comes upon her whenever she gains enough Warping Points to increase her Warping score by 1, and lasts for at least a month. While under the curse, she takes the form of a dust-devil of a Size equal to her Warping Score. The settut cannot use any of her Abilities or magic, although she is immune to aging, damage, fatigue, and deprivation. She can only really be harmed with magic, and is treated just like a mundane weather phenomenon. If destroyed she reforms at the next moonrise. She has no control over her form, but travels the land at random. She is aware of the world about her for the duration of the curse, and can be spoken to with appropriate magic. Wilderness Sense also allows a character to communicate with a settut tamzawit. A settut gains no experience points for the time spent as a tamzawit. After a lunar month as a tamzawit, a settut can try to end the curse. She makes a Stamina + Concentration roll against an Ease Factor equal to (6 + Warping Score); if she succeeds, then the curse is at an end. If the roll fails, then she must spend another month as a tamzawit before trying again. If she botches, she gains additional Warping points equal to the number of zeros on the botch dice.''
''REFORM HUMAN SHAPE: Stamina + Concentration + stress die''
''EASE FACTOR: 6 + Warping Score''
''EFFECTS OF THE TAMZAWIT CURSE''
''When a settut recovers from the curse, she gains some kind of a mark from the experience. If she took more months to recover than her (new) Warping score, then the experience is bad, and she suffers one of these effects:''
''Lost Knowledge: She loses 2 experience points in a Supernatural Ability for every Warping Point gained when the event was triggered. This cannot reduce the Ability to less than 0. New Mystical Flaw: The settut gains a''
''Minor Flaw. If she spent equal or fewer months than her Warping score under the Tamzawit Curse, then the experience, while annoying, was beneﬁcial. In this case the storyguide should select one of the following effects:''
''Increased Knowledge: The settut gains a number of experience points in one of her Supernatural Abilities equal to 5 x number of months spent under the curse. New Mystical Virtue: The settut gains a Minor Virtue.''

==Settut Culture==

''The settuten are an integral part of Imazighen culture, a situation that is alien to magi of the Order of Hermes, but which is familiar to the Order of Solomon further east. They often use their magical powers on behalf of their community; although if treated badly, a disgruntled settut can be a true curse. Gifted settuten live apart from towns and villages, often within an ancient tomb or that of a local marabout. The unGifted settuten are not forced by circumstance to separate themselves in this manner, but often do; either way the''
''settuten do not marry, which is mildly scandalous within Berber society. They typically use herbal remedies to avoid pregnancy in emulation of their sterile goddess. When not using their magic, they teach women how to read and write, or act as healers, bone-setters and apothecaries. Some settuten (usually the unGifted ones) become prostitutes as a quick route to wealth. The advice of the local settut is sometimes sought, most often by the tala (the women’s court); although it is always kept in mind that the settut are devotees of Yemma-t n Dunnit, who is the dispenser of evil counsel. The settuten are also the priestesses of the pagan Berber religion; despite having small congregations, they are often asked to perform folkloric rites such as blessing a birth and burying the dead even within a predominantly Islamic area. They keep a close look-out for Gifted children during these rites; a male child is usually ‘cured’ of The Gift by a Disjunction effect lasting a Lunar Year, whereas a female child may be adopted as an apprentice when she is of sufﬁcient age. Of course, not all children manifest The Gift at birth, so inevitably some escape these fates. The Tisliten n Ayyur have irregular meetings between local practitioners; there is also a grand convocation held every nineteen years. When attending''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Note on Tuareg Males with Settut Powers==

''As Tuareg settuten lack the Disjunction power of their cousins, Gifted Tuareg boys cannot be magically neutralized as easily. If discovered early such children are either raised as girls and inducted as settut, growing up with the Transvestite Flaw, sold as slaves to northern traders, or abandoned in the southern deserts in the hope they will be adopted by the Faerie jnun of the Kel Asouf or die of exposure. Some of these abandoned males are found and assimilated by the Blue Men, accepted by the outcast inenden, or perhaps even adopted by wandering sahir and Hermetic magi as apprentices. Some male Tuareg with long experience in the deep desert and some of the Magic-kin referred to as Blue Men''
''(see later) have also developed the settuten power over distances referred to as Dislocation, either from a Mystery initiation or as a gift from the spirits of the deep desert. Males with this power can create either Lesser or Greater Amulets using the rules presented earlier but the amulets produced take the form of ﬁnely carved cypress wood or metal objects set with ancient Libyan runes. The menfolk keep this magic secret from the settuten and their warrior comrades for fear of being accused of witchcraft. Unlike their magical womenfolk, Tuareg men with this Accelerated Ability do not gain any magical Defenses, unless they are raised as a true settut and possess the Transvestite Flaw.''

|}
''one of these meetings, a Gifted settut uses a Disjunction amulet on herself to negate her Gift or Supernatural Abilities. These amulets are provided by stronger sorceresses to those incapable of negating their own Gifts. This has a double advantage: it negates the social penalty of The Gift, and also prevents rivals from using magic to attack each other. The tineqiqqit use Magic Sensitivity to ensure that everyone has completed this requirement before negating their own magic. Local convocations take place on the instigation of one of the informal leaders of the settuten, the tineqiqqit (those who possess the Divination Ability). These seeresses are the last to use Disjunction on themselves, as their ﬁrst task is to Open The Gift of any new members and assist unGifted settuten in Initiation into the tradition’s Favored Abilities, both of which require the use of their magic. At a convocation, the settuten swap news, trade knowledge, and report on prior divinations. The local meetings also vote to blacklist individuals or towns who have treated a settut poorly, or to lift an existing ban. Blacklisting prevents the named person or persons from receiving help from any settuten, and makes them fair game for any malicious individuals wanting to practice their curses. Local meetings also report any sightings of Asehharen (sahirs), to whom the settuten are particularly opposed. Encroachment of a Solomonic summoner into Berber territory normally provokes the local settuten to band together to hunt him; they Dismiss his spirits and Disjunct his magic, then turn a warrior band on him to chase him out of the tribe’s lands. The settuten of nearby tribes are also warned of his presence. The grand convocation takes place when the full moon returns to the constellation of Cassiopeia on the shortest day of the year; an event that takes place every 19 years. The timing of the next grand convocation is left for the individual storyguide to decide. The convocation takes place at the Tomb of Tin Hinan, and many settuten try to make at least one of these meetings in her life; the tineqiqqiten are expected to attend every one. Apart from being much bigger, the grand convocation is not much different from a local one, although there are opportunities to meet with settuten''
''from far away, along with other exotic sorceresses and occasionally supernatural creatures that attend as guests. Before each grand convocation all the tineqiqqiten gather to independently seek the fortune of the settuten with Divination, and they repeat the divination until all have reached a consensus on what the future holds. Since they are all still inﬂuenced by the social tension engendered by The Gift, these divinations can be fraught with strife, and it is usually the strongest or most aggressive settut whose opinion holds the most weight.''
''TUAREG SETTUTEN''
''The Tuareg have their own settuten. For the most part these settuten are the same as those found amongst the Imazighen; the two groups recognize the common origin of their powers, but do not consider themselves to be members of each other’s tradition. A Taurgi settut has the Dislocation Ability rather than Disjunction, and the Dismay Ability instead of Dissidence. They transform into a waral lizard instead of dust-devil form when suffering from the Warping effects of the tamzawit curse and may possess the common Skinchanger (Waral lizard) Virtue rather than the Dust Devil Virtue. Tuareg settuten are usually adept at the Geomancy variant of Divination. The rare Tuareg seeresses are considered the appointed guardians of the shrine of Tin Hinan at Abalessa and the designated representatives for the southern settuten as a whole. Character creation is otherwise the same as for other settuten, taking into account Tuareg culture. Tuareg settuten cannot suppress their Gift as can other settuten. As a consequence, they tend not to co-operate with one another, and there is usually a single settut attached to each band. They use their powers to move the band across the vast spaces of the desert, and to make lightning raids on caravans and villages. Many Tuareg settuten disguise themselves as men to accompany these raids, wearing a litham veil to blend into the warrior band, and some possess the Transvestite ﬂaw. When Taurgi bands meet, they may trade their settut with another band that has need of her services; the settut usually has little say in this. This exchange ac''
''tually protects the settut from feelings of resentment engendered by her Gift, but also prevents close associates becoming inured to its effects. If ill-treated, a settut can be a dangerous foe, and this usually prevents her from being treated like a possession rather than a person. Tuareg settuten do not hold local convocations. Whenever bands meet, their settuten share any information they have gleaned with their sisters, but that is as much social structure that they have. However, Tuareg settuten do attend the grand convocation, where they form an exotic spectacle, keeping themselves aloof from the other magicians and sneering at the lesser humans. Settuten who prefer the raider lifestyle rarely attend the regular convocations for fear of being accused of being asehharen (sahir). They deign only to speak with the tineqiqqiten, and only then in their own dialect of Tamazight. Distrustful of Berber ‘witchcraft’, they must nevertheless accept a Disjunction effect or be refused attendance.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Entrancement and Induction==

''Entrancement and Induction appear similar, because they have a similar scale of Ease factors, but they differ in practice. Entrancement takes control of a character’s will, and dictates their actions, but does not affect what they believe or experience. Induction causes a character to sense things which are not real, and may convince them of things which are not true, but does not force them to act. It is possible for characters to have both Entrancement and Induction, and to use each to bolster the other. For example, “Speak to me” is an innocuous Entrancement, which allows Induction to begin. Inductions that convince a character that something is less risky, or more necessary, than it truly is alter the Ease Factors for Entrancement.''

|}

==Minor Magical Traditions==

''There are many minor magical groups whose members are found in the Maghreb.''

==The Daughters of Four Fathers==

''This group of shapeshifters claim they all descend from a single mother. The origin story they tell is that there were four four friends were traveling on a long journey, and missing the company of women. The carpenter, who had''
''the ﬁrst watch, made a perfect model of a woman from wood. The tailor, who took the second watch, clothed it in a beautiful raiment. The magician, who had the third watch, gave it life. They always stop the story before they say what the thief did. Each daughter can take the shape of a dove at will. While in dove form a daughter can communicate by having one feather ﬂy free, act as a quill, then rejoin her body. They are keen observers, have great wisdom, and are highly educated. Each is, in human form, supernaturally beautiful.''

==Inducers==

''Scholars in the Maghreb say that there are three types of magicians. The least powerful are those who cannot change the material world, but instead work upon the mind of a victim, to make it seem that they have. These are not illusionists in the Hermetic sense, because they do not manipulate species. A Hermetic magus creating the illusion of a diamond necklace generally creates something everyone can see. The diamond necklace created by an inducer can only be seen by the victim: even the inducer cannot see it.''
''INDUCTION (MAJOR VIRTUE)''
''Each inducer has a supernatural abil''

==Daughter of Four Fathers Virtue Package==

''The daughters are a small, close knit, family of women with supernatural abilities. All known Daughters have the following Virtues and Flaws.''
''SKINCHANGER (DOVE), MAJOR SUPERNATURAL VIRTUE''
''This is a more powerful variant of the Minor Virtue described in ArM5, pages 48–49. Daughters do not need to carry a bundle of feathers to use as a skinchanger’s cloak. A Daughter can, over the course of a week, prepare any artistic representation of a feather, or a single real feather, to act instead of a bundle of feathers. A Daughter may have several feathers prepared at one time, and may use feathers prepared by any other Daughter. Most own several small pins or brooches, and in the city where the Daughters are active, they have hidden additional pins in accessible places, like the baths. A few daughters have little pieces of stone with feathers engraved on them, which they swallow. These lodge in the crop of the dove form, and can be regurgitated into the mouth at will. A daughter’s garments and equipment change into feathers when she shifts shape, so she appears modestly''
''clothed when the transformation ends. This also allows the daughters to carry tools and weapons in dove shape, although they cannot be used until the human shape is resumed. A Daughter has the statistics of a common dove when in animal form, save that her Soak is +3 higher than usual.''
''FEATHER MESSENGER (MINOR SUPERNATURAL VIRTUE)''
''A daughter can painlessly separate a feather from her body, and use it to write as a quill, controlling its movements telepathically while it remains within Sight. The quill doesn’t need ink; it provides it magically. After she ﬁnishes writing, the daughter can reattach the feather if in dove form. The quality of the daughter as a scribe does not differ between human and dove forms. Daughters can also pull off feathers in bird form, turn into humans, and still mentally control the dropped feathers.''
''WEALTHY (MAJOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''As ArM5, page 50. The Daughters are the children of a wildly successful thief''
''and have been raised as if the daughters of a rich merchant or minor nobleman. The new Virtues for thieves in the Marrakech section may suit some Daughters.''
''OTHER VIRTUES''
''The Daughters, when they appear in stories, seem to be highly educated, indeed to such an extensive degree that some theorists suggest that they are faeries who have manufactured the stories themselves. Some are clearly Well-traveled. Some chroniclers suggest they have a seductiveness best represented by the Venus’s Blessing Virtue, but it may just be that the heroes in their stories are usually young men, and the daughters are comely, wealthy, young women.''
''CLOSE FAMILY TIES (MINOR SOCIAL FLAW)''
''The Daughters are extremely interested in each others’ welfare. The ﬂocking instinct of the daughters takes their sociability beyond even that normal in the Maghreb, so that they almost always live in groups.''
''ity, called Induction, which starts with a score of 1. Each attempt at induction requires the inducer to talk with the victim for at least one minute. Characters who cannot hear the inducer are immune to his powers. Attempts at induction require a die roll of Communication + Induction. Induction is not made more difﬁcult by the complexity of the illusion: it is made more difﬁcult as the risk the victim takes by believing the illusion increases. On some level the victim is aware of the real world, and can snap out of the induced state if threatened. The Ease Factors for Induction are:''
''Innocuous   3 Potentially Shaming  6 Potentially Dangerous to Others 9 Potentially Dangerous to Self 12 Potentially Suicidal  15''
''Roll Modiﬁers (pick only one) • Victim is drunk, drugged, exhausted, or critically ill +3 • Victim knows and trusts the inducer +3 • Site of induction has been carefully prepared with expensive props, in advance +3.''
''If an Inducer has successfully snared a victim, the Inducer may roll again to try and bump the effect up to the next level of risk. This requires at least ﬁfteen minutes, and on the second roll, the Ease Factor is reduced by 3. An inducer can take a great deal of time, and several rolls, to work a victim up through the levels of danger to potentially suicidal. A victim of induction realizes they have been affected by magic if the roll above does not exceed the Ease Factor by (6 – 1 per factor from the list below). This value can be reduced by 1 by each of the following factors: choose no more than 3.''
''• Careful use of props (clothes stained, souvenirs provided) • Illusion includes brush off (character in illusion returns character home, character falls asleep inside illusion and wakes up in bed) • No lost time (character in illusion explains it is all happening in''
''one night, no servants notice the character gone) • Real world effects (character’s actions in illusion seem to have altered the real world in veriﬁable ways) • Follow up (the character has been convinced previous illusions were real, and this one is part of that larger story).''

==Potteresses==

''There are several traditions of magical potteresses in Africa. This section deals with the weaker lineages of potteresses. Many have traditions concerning the gathering of clay. Some sacriﬁce chickens or rice before collecting their raw materials. Others will not gather clay on a Monday or Friday. Others have traditions concerning the use of clay. Most make pots by pressing clay over forms, and in some tribes the forms must be made by men whose ﬁrst wives have died. A form made by a man whose wife has not died will curse, and even kill, a potteress who uses it. Each time a vessel is made, the potteress feels drained for the rest of the day. Each new vessel costs a Long Term Fatigue level. Characters who lack the gifts, training, and blood of the potteresses who attempt to make these magical water vessels suffer a crippling break in their health which persists lifelong. This is represented with the Enfeebled Major Flaw.''
''MAKER OF WATER VESSELS (MINOR SUPERNATURAL VIRTUE)''
''A character who drinks from a magical water vessel made by a potteress of this tradition, may swap one Ability score for the Craft score of the potteress, at the time the vessel was made. This effect lasts for one scene or three minutes, whichever is longer. Each vessel is tied, at its creation, to a particular Ability, by its shape. Each potteress knows a variety of vessel shapes, each shape corresponding to a single Ability. A starting character knows a number of shapes equal to her Craft: Potteress score. The character takes one''
''season to learn a new shape when her Ability increases, and requires the assistance of someone who already knows the new shape desired. After a vessel is drunk from the ﬁrst time, it takes the drinker as its owner. Other drinkers gain no beneﬁt from the vessel, and it becomes an Arcane Connection to its owner. Characters with Magic Resistance cannot be claimed by vessels. The ﬁrst drink from an unowned vessel, which establishes ownership, causes Warping, unless the drinker has Supernatural Virtues. Similarly, drinking from a vessel one does not own causes Warping, unless the drinker has Supernatural Virtues.''
''MAKER OF TEXTURED VESSELS (MINOR SUPERNATURAL VIRTUE)''
''Textured vessels are those which have mystical patterns impressed into their surfaces before ﬁring. A potteress with this Virtue has a repertoire of shapes: one shape per level in the Craft Ability. Each shape corresponds to an Ability, although there are some Abilities for which the potteresses have not learned a shape. The potteress gains additional shapes as the Craft skill increases. The character takes one season to learn each added shape when her Ability increases, and requires the assistance of someone who already knows the new shape desired. Each vessel grants a +3 bonus in a single Ability. The materials used while attempting the roll must have been stored inside the vessel. Storing materials for Abilities in pots does not cause Warping. The ﬁrst time a character uses a pot in this way, it accepts the user as its owner, and provides no bonus for anyone else. A pot is an Arcane Connection to its master. Characters with Magic Resistance cannot be claimed by pots, and gain no beneﬁt from them.''
''THE LEADERS OF THIS TRADITION''
''Potteresses gather for annual ceremonies. During these, animal sacriﬁces, or those of cowrie shells, are made. Dances are performed and lore is passed down. Young women are welcomed into the''
''adult state, often through the practice of genital excision. During these ceremonies, the leaders of this tradition demonstrate their awesome powers. The eldest women in this tradition can produce many magical effects. When they slap the earth, water rises from it, so that women can wash before they dance. The women can lead trees about using bridles of string, and make mounds of earth gather, to prepare the dancing ground. They can control the weather, and breathe ﬁre. These senior potters are best represented as an oral tradition of Elementalists, as described in Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 17– 33. As a purely cosmetic element of this tradition’s magic, effects often appear to originate from the caster’s mouth, rather than her hands.''
''LEATHER-WORKERS''
''Leather work and pottery are, in many sense, twinned arts in Desert Africa. Leather work is the male version, and pottery the female version, of the same tradition. A leather worker may create water vessels, or textured vessels, of leather, just as a potter makes them of clay. The Virtues are the same, but one Virtue applies to either clay or leather, not both. The highest calling is of the leather worker’s art is the making of saddlery. Saddles often improve Ride rolls. Many bridles improve the stamina and pest resistance of the horse, by boosting its Athletics. Many halters and hobbles improve the Craft: Groom skill. North African tack has many more tassels than its European equivalents, and bridles often include a headband that crosses above the eyes. These keep away ﬂies, but are often also enchanted with various effects to protect or empower the horse, or its rider.''

==Rippers==

''This type of minor magician is found in greatest concentration in the area around Tunis, although they have been reported as a far away as the Muslim settlements in Iberia and Sicily. A ripper’s powers are very limited. He can cause things to tear open using his mind. This power does not work on people, so most rippers make a living as standover men in the markets of the large cities. Each cloth or livestock merchant pays the ripper a little, on a regular basis, and in exchange he does not destroy their cloth, or tear open the bellies of their beasts. Rippers can pass their talent on to their children. Some scholars think that rippers all come from a single bloodline. Some think the power comes from an Initiatory Ordeal known by the family. Some suggest the rippers are acolytes of a murabit. Yet others suggest that there are many types of ripper, and that each may gain power in a different way.''
''RIPPER (MINOR VIRTUE)''
''The most described form of ripper has two powers. He can destroy a single piece of cloth, or disembowel a single animal, by spending a Fatigue level, at Sight range, without words or gestures. These are a PeAn(He) 25 and a PeAn 45 effect, each with +0 Penetration. Note that this description is deliberately limiting: a ripper can’t break a horse’s leg or send it blind. A ripper cannot sever a rope. A ripper cannot cleanly slice things with his mind. The ripper has two, entirely inﬂexible, effects. Troupes may decide to add a little leeway to folklore, to make a ripper a more interesting player character. Examples are included here, and various types of ripper may share the setting.''
''FABRIC RIPPER (MINOR VIRTUE)''
''This type of ripper can tear any manufactured thing made from plant or animal ﬁbers. This allows her to destroy sails, break the strap holding on individual pieces of armor, snap the tack of a horse, burst a sack, and tatter a pair of pants with her mind. She may only tar''
''get one object per Fatigue level spent. This is a PeAn(He) 25 effect with +0 Penetration. This type of ripper cannot eviscerate animals.''
''LEATHER RIPPER (MINOR VIRTUE)''
''This type of ripper cannot affect any fabric except leather, and cannot eviscerate animals. His advantage is that a single fatigue level allows him to destroy a group of leather objects. This causes metal armor to fall away, as the strips holding it together disintegrate. It destroys the tack of a horseman, forcing a Ride roll, with penalties of up to –9 depending on how dangerous his current maneuvers are. It can destroy the scabbard, belt and boots of a foe, allowing the ripper to ﬂee or attack. This is a PeAn(He) 30 effect with +0 Penetration.''

==Geomancers==

''Geomancy, known in Arabic as ilm al-raml, or the “science of the sand” is a divinatory practice based on repeatedly and seemingly randomly inscribing a series of marks in sand or earth. One Muslim legend states that the angel Jibril (Gabriel) taught the art to Idris, who began the tradition in pre-Islamic times. Another account ascribes this form of divination to an apocryphal eastern ﬁgure, Tumtum al-Hindi, who wrote a book on geomancy passed down through the ages by pre-Islamic prophets until it passed into the hands of one Khalaf alBarbar of Medina, who became an early convert to Islam. The practice remains popular with the Tuareg, the semi-literate Arabic and Berber hedge magicians of the Maghreb, and with some lineages of Andalusian Ex-Miscellanea magi. It is thought to be less reﬁned and sophisticated than astrology by most Hermetic magi and generally considered beneath the notice of more academic hedge wizard traditions. True geomancy is a Major Supernatural Virtue detailed below. Other lesser diviners and soothsayers may use geomantic methods or techniques but lack the ability to answer general questions about targets and are limited''
''to only one or two areas of enquiry. The skills of these lesser geomancers may best be reﬂected by choosing the Lesser Geomancy detailed below or by choosing the Dowsing or Wilderness Sense Virtues, often coupled with the Premonitions Virtue or the Visions Flaw. Some settuten and Hermetic magi practice a form of geomancy as part of the Divination Ability or the Augury and Divination Mystery Virtue, but these powers differs greatly from the techniques described here.''
''NEW SUPERNATURAL ABILITY: GEOMANCY''
''Geomancy requires nothing more complex than a ﬂat space of sand or dirt and some form of stylus to make the marks. The stylus can be as simple as a human ﬁnger but a knife, a bone or another object can be used instead and may provide Stylus Material bonuses to particular enquiries. To answer a particular enquiry, the geomancer randomly creates 16 lines of marks of different length, sketching from right to left. Depending on whether the line formed contains an even or odd number of marks, he places either one or two dots in a regular pattern known as a shield chart. From this shield chart, the dots are grouped into fours, creating four ummahat (Arabic: “mothers”) and four banat (Arabic: “daughters”). By adding the dots of pairs of these eight groups together, four banat akh (Arabic: “nieces”) are formed, which when then added form two shuhud (Arabic: “witnesses”). Further summation results in a penultimate ﬁgure known as the qadi (Arabic: “judge”) and a ﬁnal ﬁgure formed by adding the ﬁrst umm and the quadi known as the mufattiq (Arabic: “reconciler”). Interpretation of the qadi ﬁgure provides the answer to the geomancer’s question, although the exact information provided for more complex questions also depends on the contents of the shield chart as a whole and particular patterns during the calculation process. Geomancy takes about an hour to perform. The character must have a ﬁrm question in mind about an event affecting a person, and she must have a symbolic connection to the subject of the enquiry in the form of an Arcane or''
''Sympathetic Connection. The question must pertain to an event in the present, within the last 12 hours or so. To use this Ability, the character must surrender to the vagaries of fate rather than trust in her own capabilities; in game terms she must spend a Conﬁdence Point per Geomancy attempt, and does not get the usual +3 bonus to her roll for this point. Geomancy needs absolute focus from the character; any outside event that would normally provoke a Concentration roll (even an easy one) breaks the meditative state required for the calculations and the character must begin again. Successful Geomancy results in an allegorical answer that addresses the desired question. Geomancy never results in a simple and clear answer, no matter how high the Casting Total. A failure, or a success that fails to penetrate Magic Resistance, results in a pattern that is simply meaningless. A botched Casting roll grants an irrelevant or false interpretation. For these reasons, the storyguide should always roll the stress die in secret and inform the player of what her character deduces. A target of Geomancy who possesses the Premonitions Virtue has an opportunity to receive a vision of the character employing Geomancy, if he makes a successful roll on that Ability.''
''GEOMANCY CASTING TOTAL: perception + geomancy + inscription bonus + aura modiﬁers + stress die''
''It is easier to gain answers about major events that affect the lives of many people than ones concerning trivial issues. Further, the consequences of those events for the lives of the affected people are important.''
''Importance: Major Ease Factor: 9 Example: Crop failure at a village.''
''Importance: Minor Ease Factor: 12 Example: Disappearance of the local priest.''
''Importance: Trivial Ease Factor: 15 Example: A theft from a farmer.''
''The Ease Factor is also modiﬁed according to the simplicity of the question. While the character receives an answer by interpreting the pattern created, the complexity is judged according to how simply the question could be answered in plain language. Use the highest modiﬁer that applies:''
''Complexity: Could be answered by a single word. Modiﬁer to Ease Factor: +0''
''Complexity: Could be answered by a short sentence. Modiﬁer to Ease Factor: +3''
''Complexity: Answer requires a proper noun. Modiﬁer to Ease Factor: +3''
''Complexity: Would require a lengthy explanation. Modiﬁer to Ease Factor: +6''
''Specialties: deaths, wars, love''
''GEOMANCY VIRTUES''
''The following Virtues are applicable when creating geomancer characters. The Astrological Geomancy Virtue is currently unknown in Africa and Mythic Europe, and may only be taken by characters taught geomancy in the Mythic Middle East without a speciﬁc story to explain how the character learnt these advanced techniques.''
''Astrological Geomancy Minor, Mystery The character has learnt how to incorporate basic astrological techniques into his geomantic techniques by using a so-called “house chart.” He can incorporate Sympathetic bonuses by using Artes Liberales (astronomy) to calculate his target’s nativity horoscope. On a successful Int + Artes Liberales + die roll against an Ease Factor of 9, the geomancer may add 3 to her Casting Total for questions regarding a particular target.''
''Geomancy Major, Supernatural or Mystery The character is skilled in the semiliterate divinatory art of geomancy and can discover the answer to questions by scratching marks in the earth and''

==Stylus Material Bonuses for Geomancy==

''Basic geomancy is performed using just one of the diviner’s ﬁngers as the stylus; some more primitive African traditions even use throwing sand into the air and interpreting the patterns formed as a substitutes for making the actual marks. Characters employing the following items to sketch marks in the earth with Geomancy receive a +3 bonus to their Casting Total if the subject matter of the question is appropriate.''
''Item: dagger Subject Matter: war, physical conﬂict''
''Item: human bone Subject Matter: health''
''Item: broken glass or mirror shard Subject Matter: locating things''
''Item: wooden stick Subject Matter: natural places, crops''
''Item: metal nail Subject Matter: structures, habitation''
''Item: animal bone Subject Matter: jnun''
''More academically inclined geomancers sometimes use a wax tablet or paper as a surface as a medium for the''
''randomly inspired marks, but do not gain Stylus Material bonuses as a result.''
''GEOMANTIC OBJECTS''
''Some inenden can carve dice marked with geomantic ﬁgures from cypress wood to use instead of a stylus; these dice grant a bonus of +3 to enquiries about ghosts, and dice carved from other types of wood may have different bonuses depending on the wood’s usual Shape & Material bonus. An alchemist in Syria has reportedly created a brass instrument composed of numerous dials that produces random dots and geomantic ﬁgures. This object can be used instead of the traditional sketching technique. Although nonmagical, the superior craftsmanship of this Item of Quality grants a +3 bonus to all Geomancy Casting Totals when used, although the geomancer cannot beneﬁt from additional Stylus Material bonuses.''
''LEARNING GEOMANCY''
''As an illiterate tradition of divination, major books on Geomancy are rare. Gaining the Geomancy Virtue is usually done through an Initiation Script, although Gifted characters can learn it as a Super''
''natural Ability from a teacher using the usual method (see ArM5, page 166).''
''Kitab al-Raml Believed to be a translation of the ancient book written by Tumtum al-Hindi mentioned in the legend earlier, this rare manuscript is one of the few written sources on Geomancy, equivalent to a summa of Level 4, Quality 10. Poorly transcribed Arabic copies or mistranslated derivations of inferior Quality (Quality range 5 to 8) are numerous, but occasional correctly translated texts written in Berber, Persian or Greek (Quality 9) can also be found.''
''Experimentarius This work is a defective Latin translation in verse of an original untitled Arabic text dealing with geomancy, created by Bernard Silvestris, a late 11th century philosopher and poet best known for his Cosmographia. Sometimes found in northern European libraries from the 12th century onwards, this book is a tractatus with a Quality of 8, and may provide Hermetic magi with their ﬁrst exposure to Geomancy. A copy of the original Arabic text would be equivalent to a Geomancy tractatus, Quality 9 and might be sourced from a Maghrebi bookseller’s stand or found in an Andalusian library.''
''interpreting the patterns through calculation. Choosing this Virtue confers the Supernatural Ability Geomancy 1 (see above).''
''Lesser Geomancy Minor, Supernatural The character is capable of performing very minor acts of divinatory magic through an incomplete knowledge of the art of geomancy. Choose one (Realm) Lore that is the key Ability for this magic; he may learn this Ability at Character Creation even if he is normally unable to take Arcane Abilities. The choice of (Realm) Lore also determines to which supernatural realm his power is aligned for the purposes of aura modiﬁers. He can only reproduce effects in one narrow area; he can effectively use geomantic methods to acquire magical senses that detect health, wealth, and mental state using Intellego Corpus, Intellego Mentem, and Intellego Terram guidelines. To construct a shield chart the character must expend a Fatigue level, whether the divination succeeds or fails. He must also spend at least 15 minutes preparing the shield chart, during which time he needs unbroken concentration and makes the random marks necessary to create the basic geomantic ﬁgures. Unlike true geomancy, this lesser technique does not beneﬁt from styluses made of different materials. The lesser geomantic question is designed exactly like a Hermetic spell. The Casting Total is equal to (Stamina + (Realm) Lore + aura modiﬁer + stress die) / 2. Penetration is calculated in the normal fashion: Casting Total – Spell Level + Penetration modiﬁers.''
''Skilled Geomancer Minor, General The character is particularly skilled with diving using geomantic techniques. The character receives 50 experience points that can be put into Divination (geomancy), Dowsing, Geomancy, (Realm) Lore, Profession: Soothsayer and Wilderness Sense. This Virtue does not grant any Supernatural Abilities; these must be purchased separately.''

==The Inenden==

''This lower caste of craftsmen-pariahs exist outside the usual Tuareg “drum group” social structure and speak their own dialect of Tamazight called Tenet. Commonly feared as magicians unaligned to either the Sun or Moon magic of the northern Berbers, they suffer from the Outcast Flaw. Although unGifted, many inenden have the Offensive to Animals or Magical Air Flaws and suffer social penalties like other wizards. Their role superﬁcially resembles that of the bouda of Morocco detailed below, but they lack shapeshifting powers. Inenden have craft powers similar to Potteresses or Leather-workers as detailed earlier, but use different materials to work their magic. Men produce either metal or carved wooden tools, including the famous wooden Tuareg saddles, while the women fashion ornate metal and glass jewelopry imbued with magical effects.''
''SUPERIOR AND WONDROUS ITEMS''
''The exceptional mundane items that these crafters make come in two types. The most common are superior objects, which grant a +1 bonus on a particular die roll, in a particular circumstance. For example, a superior sword might grant +1 to Attack rolls in combat, or a set of boots might allow a +1 bonus while hunting. Superior items can be made without a speciﬁc user in mind. The rarer type of mundane item, excellent items, grant higher bonuses, to two or more rolls within a particular situation, but must be personally tailored for the user. As an example, an excellent cloak is made for a diplomat may improve his Charm and Intrigue rolls by +3. If, however, his cloak is stolen, then for any other user it is merely superior, adding +1 to a single Ability. Some possess additional crafting powers represented by the Mythic Saddle-Maker (also Mythic Blacksmith, Mythic Woodcarver or Mythic Jeweler) Virtue limited to use with one Craft Ability as detailed later. Rare inenden possess the Major Virtue Touched by (Realm) (usually Magic but sometimes Infernal) and can create items using any Craft Ability they possess. These magical crafters''
''also have the ability to make wondrous items. A single crafter is generally able to only make items which draw powers from one or two Hermetic Forms (and any Techniques), depending on whether they possess the appropriate Major or Minor Virtue. These magical effects have a Penetration score of 0. Detailed rules for creating wondrous items are found in City and Guild on pages 70–73.The character can incorporate Design & Inscription Bonuses into their creations (see earlier), but only up to the limit of their relevant Craft: Woodcarver, Craft: Jeweler or other relevant Craft score.''
''INENDEN CRAFTER''
''Major, Supernatural This character belongs to the minor inenden craft tradition of the Tuareg. The character possesses equivalents of the Maker of Water Vessels and Maker of Textured Vessels Minor Supernatural Virtues (detailed earlier), but produces wooden or metal tools if male or glass and metal jewelry if female. This Virtue also includes the effect of the Crafter’s Eye Minor Virtue detailed below.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Greater Inenden Craft Magic==

''Rare Gifted ineden may exist and possess more advanced magic at the troupe’s discretion. Relying on amulets created from leather and metal work, rather than the henna based tattoos of their northern Berber equivalents, the imerghi, they may be similarly modeled using the mechanics for Cunning Folk presented in Hedge Magic Revised Edition. Unlike their European counterparts, they cannot use spoken charms (equivalent to the Flaws Laboratory Magician and No Text Casting), but may have skill in Mythic Herbalism.''

|}
''TOUCHED BY (REALM)''
''Major, Supernatural Through membership of the inenden caste, the character has a small amount of magic in his blood. This allows the inenden to craft non-Hermetic magical items limited to only two Forms (Terram and usually Animal, although some have ability with Corpus, Herbam, or Mentem). This supernatural ability does not interfere with any type of social interaction. You must determine the source of this power: Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or''
''Magic. He is considered to be afﬁliated with the realm you choose, and thus immune to Warping due to prolonged exposure to auras of that realm.''
''MYTHIC SADDLE-MAKER''
''Minor, Supernatural The character may craft wooden saddles and other wooden items with magical effects, using the guidelines for a single Hermetic Form chosen at character creation. Animal is a popular choice, although Terram is also common. The''
''powers of the saddle can only affect the camel itself, or its immediate environment. A Terram effect, for instance to make the sand which the camel touches stable is permissible, but an Auram power to change the weather isn’t. To calculate the Craft Total, add the controlling characteristic to the Craft: Woodcarver Ability. As this ﬁeld of work requires wit as well as deftness of hand, either Intelligence or Dexterity may be used; this is a permanent choice that must be made at character creation. This ability is most often aligned to the Magic or Faerie realm, but an In''

==Merin ag Gwafa, the Inenden Saddle-Maker==

''This example Tuareg craft magician is designed as a Companion level character and balanced for use in play as a starting character. Deathly afraid of the spirits of the desert, Merin trades many of his wares for trinkets designed to ward off magic, although many of his supposed charms are in fact useless. His minor craft magic is aligned to the Magic realm. He uses his hedge magic abilities to create individualized saddles that impart a +3 bonus to ride skills or a score of Ride 8 (camels), or carry minor Animal aligned enchantments that calm a distempered animal, help a beast to go without water for a longer period or allow the mount to cross the shifting sands at greater speed. His wares are valuable to the nobles he serves but his pariah status prevents his permanent acceptance into a drum group for protection, forcing him to wander the Ahaggar. To convert Merin into a Mythic Companion, choose an extra 11 points of Virtue to describe his greater craft magics and wider skills. Appropriate additional Supernatural Virtues may include: Geomancy, Mythic Herbalism, Leather Ripper, Premonitions, Touched by (Realm). Alternatively, he may be recreated as a Cunning-Man or Elementalist maguslevel character using the rules detailed in Hedge Magic: Revised Edition.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre -2, Com +1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik –2 Size: 0''
''Age: 33 (33) Decrepitude: 0 (0) Warping: 2 (2) Conﬁdence: 1 (3) Faith: 1 (1, from relic carried) Virtues and Flaws: Inenden; Arcane Lore, Gossip, Herbalism*, Minor Relic, Mythic Saddle-Maker, Puissant  Craft: Woodcarver, Rapid Convalescence; Outsider, Poor; Fear (Kel Asuf), Vow (constantly wear litham veil). * acts as Medicine, see Art & Academe page 55-56 for further details. Additional Flaws**: Disﬁgured (indigo skin), Short Attention Span ** from Warping due to constantly wearing magical litham veil Personality Traits: Cowardly +2, Touchy +2, Sly +1 Reputations: Pariah 2 (Tuareg) Combat: Fist: Init –2, Attack +2, Defense –2, Damage +2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (camels), Arabic 2 (trade goods), Area Lore: Ahaggar 2 (markets), Bargain 3 (raw materials), Brawl 2 (ﬁsts), Chirurgery 3 (bind wounds), Concentration 2 (craft work), Craft: Blacksmith 4 (tools), Craft: Woodcarver 6 +2 (saddles), Faerie Lore''
''2 (jnun), Folk Ken 3 (customers), Herbalism 3 (antidotes), Inenden Lore 3 (traditions), Infernal Lore 3 (jnun), Magic Lore 3 (items), Profession: Apothecary 2 (raw materials), Survival 2 (deserts), Tamazight 5 (Tenet), Teaching 2 (wood carving). Powers: Brave the Sandstorm, ReAu 25, Init 0; R: Personal, D: Sun, 2 uses per day. This effect protects the wearer from sandstorms by repelling the breeze that carries the dust. Equipment: litham veil***, wood-carving and blacksmith tools, various amulets**** *** see Powers above for effects enchanted into the Targui’s indigo veil **** only two of Merin’s amulets are actually potent — the ﬁrst is a minor relic that confers 1 Faith point and a Magic Resistance of 10, the second is an imerghi Vulnero Magicam charm with 2 remaining charges that wards against creatures of the Faerie Realm with a Might of less than 15. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Merin is a worn faced Targui who wears a tattered light veil and a dirty white robe. He is notable for beingcovered with small metal amulets, glass jewelry, and other trinkets designed to protect him against the jnun and malicious desert spirits.''
''fernal saddle-maker is possible. You may take this Virtue twice, but no more. Taking the Virtue a second time adds either a second Form to use while enchanting, or allows the character to use it with another Ability, but not both. For variations of this Virtue, simple rename it Mythic (Professional), and replace Craft: Woodcarver with another Craft Ability. Retain the limit of a single Ability and a single Hermetic Form.''
''CRAFTER’S EYE''
''Minor, Supernatural The character can innately tell the quality of a manufactured item. If the item is somehow ﬂawed he is instantly aware of that by merely touching it. He also has a chance to tell if an item is magical. For supernatural items made by a craftsman, make a Perception + Awareness + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If successful, the character knows the power of the item. For Her''
''metic enchanted items, or those made by other sorcerers, make a Perception + Awareness + stress die roll against a 12. If successful, the character knows the item is enchanted, but has no idea how, or what its powers might be. Botching either roll results in false information. This Virtue does not offer any information about the actions or commands necessary to trigger an item’s powers. This Virtue is identical to the Eye of Hephaestus Virtue presented in City & Guild, page 71.''

==Wondrous Items==

''Magic abounds in Africa, and has left its mark in the blood of some craftsmen. Certain such individuals can instill minor magical enchantments into their creations. These items are called “wondrous” by their crafters and the buying public; Hermetic magi ﬁnd this title grandiose. This magic-work is not''
''Hermetic magic, although many of the resulting effects can be easily mirrored by minor formulaic spells. There are a number of styles of craft magic in Africa, and that used by crafters with a drop of magic in their blood is just one of the many varieties. Most produce items that are too minor to qualify them for membership of the Order of Hermes and have remained on the fringes. To create wondrous items, a character must have the Major Supernatural Virtue Touched by (Realm). You must also select two Hermetic Forms for the character at character generation. The powers of every wondrous item the character creates must fall within those two Forms, although you may use any Technique when determining the exact nature of the power instilled. While these effects and their use are similar to Hermetic magic, the power that a craftsman instills is based on less predictable forces. There are essential differences between wondrous items and Hermetically enchanted items, namely the latter’s predictable operation and ability to affect other magical entities or items. Wondrous items have no Penetration scores and cannot affect anyone with even the slightest Magic Resistance. Wondrous items are made for a speciﬁc customer. A blacksmith does not have a collection of wondrous horseshoes available for ready sale, but must create a set designed for a speciﬁc animal. Because of this close association, each wondrous item acts as an Arcane Connection to the person it was made for, rather than to its maker. The Arcane Connection lasts until the recipient dies, and for a number of years after that. Roll a simple die on the recipient’s death to determine how much longer the connection persists. This connection can be broken like any other, but if it is the item loses its powers. It takes a least one season to create a wondrous item, during which a character cannot perform any other seasonal activities, although he can work alongside his staff while they are engaged in the regular operations of the workshop. He may be assisted by one helper for every two points he has in his Leadership score. The assistant need only have a score in the speciﬁc Craft Ability. The process begins''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Common Wondrous Items of Africa==

''Here is a suggested list of some of the supernatural effects that African wondrous items can have. They can serve as guidelines for your troupe in creating such minor enchantments. Each item works once per day. Craft Levels have been included in the examples, determined by the magnitude of the Hermetic effect + 12. The Ettebel of the Chief: Carved from wood with a gazelle-hide skin, this drum creates the effect of an Aura of Ennobled Presence when struck by an amenoukal or Tuareg chieftain. Craft Level: 14: Magnitude 2 (Muto Imaginem Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun) Odili of Soothing: This child’s ﬂute of sorghum wood holds an animal motionless as long as the ﬂute is played, as per Viper’s Gaze. Craft Level 15: Magnitude 3 (Rego Animal Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration) Saddle of the Temperate Camel: This carved wooden Tuareg saddle, when placed upon a stubborn camel, makes the animal follow commands as if well trained, as per Mastering the Unruly Beast. Craft Level 17: Magnitude 5 (Rego Animal Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration)''
''Jar of Potable Water: Filling this clay vessel with salt water triggers an effect which removes all salt, making the water refreshing and safe to drink as long as there are no other toxic impurities. Craft Level 15: Magnitude 3 (Perdo Terram (Aquam) Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Mineral, +1 Complex). Bukar of Clear Sight: This simple black turban enhances the wearer’s long distance vision as per the effects of the spell Eyes of the Eagle. Craft Level 17: Magnitude 5 (Intellego Imaginem Base 3, +2 Sun, +4 Vision). Boots of the Tahr: These strong leather boots allow the wearer to climb like a goat, gaining a +3 to all rolls to climb and descend steep cliffs. Craft Level 13: Magnitude 1 (Rego Corpus (Animal) Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, requisite free). Hyena Pelt: This mantle and hood allows the wearer to change into a hyena. The pelt, but not his other clothes and items, change with the transformation. The wearer remains a hyena until the effect ends, at either sunrise or sunset. Craft Level 17: Magnitude 5 (Muto Corpus base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun).''

|}
''by taking exact measurements and weights of the item’s recipient, as well as collecting her hair, blood, and other bodily excreta. After selecting the ﬁnest raw materials available, the character begins the enchantment process. The Craft Level of a wondrous item has a base of 12. Like other ﬁnished goods, the Craft Level can be modiﬁed by the storyguide according to the situation. Next, estimate the level of effect a Hermetic spell that mirrors the power the character wishes to instill would have, and add the magnitude to the Craft Level. The powers of a wondrous item are not as ﬂexible as Hermetic enchanted items. The Range of the effect must be Personal or Touch, since wondrous items can only affect themselves or the bearer of the item, the Duration cannot be''
''greater than Sun, and the Target must be Individual. The craftsman must also determine how often he wishes this power to occur. Consult the Effect Frequency Table (ArM5, page 98) and add this number to the Craft Total. A wondrous item can only have one instilled effect.''
''WONDROUS ITEM CRAFT LEVEL: 12 + Magnitude of Hermetic Effect + Modiﬁer for Number of Uses per Day''
''To make a wondrous item the Workshop Total must be higher than the Craft Level.''
''WORKSHOP TOTAL: Characteristic + Craft Ability + aura modiﬁers''
''If the craftsman has a helper, add half the helper’s Craft Ability score to the Workshop Total. The crafter of a wondrous item can only have one assistant. For each point the Workshop Total is above the Craft Level, the craftsman accumulates one point toward the item’s completion per season. Once the accumulated points equal the Craft Level, the item is ﬁnished. The craftsman may add any applicable bonuses listed on the Shape and Material Bonus chart (ArM5, page 110) for his wondrous item to his Workshop Total. This bonus is limited by his Craft Ability score. If starting with an excellent quality item, the bonuses from the excellent item may be added to the Workshop Total if the enhanced features of the wondrous item are similar to its ﬁnal instilled power. For example, an excellent quality cloak that provides a +2 bonus to Charm rolls can be added to the Workshop Total to make it a supernatural item with a power similar to the spell Aura of Ennobled Presence. A wondrous item can only be used by the person for whom it was crafted. Hermetic magic can learn this if the item’s enchantment is investigated in the laboratory. Wondrous items have verbal triggers to activate their power. The bearer touches the item and recites a speciﬁc word or phrase determined by the crafter during construction. Divine wondrous items are''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Hunger and the Dessicated Men==

''Deep within the Tanezrouft, the “Land of Thirst,” wander the Dessicated Men, a darker variant of the Blue Men. Variants of the Drowned Men presented in Realms of Power: Magic (see pages 96–97 for details), these Transformed Humans are created from Tuareg on the brink of death from thirst, heat and exposure. At the point of death, a magical pact is forged with the desert Daimon known as the Hunger or the Red and the nomad is brought back in a semblance of unlife as a servant of the greater spirit. Superﬁcially similar in appearance to the true Blue Men above, the Dessicated Men possess the following Virtues and Flaws: Transformed Human and the Major Story Flaw: Servant of the Desert. Neither free nor proud, although these unliving men have lost much of their humanity, they commonly use the patronymics Ag Lazz or ibn al-Ju’ to denote their supernatural allegiance to their Daimonic overlord. Dessicated Men appear to be aligned to Aquam, but in a negative sense, exhibiting powers over creating thirst and evaporation of water. Some possess additional powers and can control heat, create sandstorms, or summon swarms of desert creatures to do their bidding.''

|}
''triggered by saying a small prayer, Infernal wondrous items by an unholy name, Faerie wondrous items by a quick song or pagan prayer, and Magic wondrous items by a special phrase or arcane word.''

==The Blue Men of the Desert==

''Some of the Tuareg nomads who roam the deep desert are Warped over time by repeated exposure to the powerful Magic auras of the deep desert and the constant wearing of their enchanted litham veils, acquiring new Virtues and Flaws and ultimately transforming into a type of Magic Human known as the Blue Men. Nominally aligned to the great spirit known as the Black, these wanderers act as guardians against the more malevolent magical creatures that rise from the deepest deserts or cross through the thin boundaries between the mundane and Supernatural realms in such places. Blue Men that have undergone such an apotheosis have the Transformed by Magic Virtue and are distinguished by being larger and more magical than their lesser human cousins, commonly possessing the Large or Giant Blood Virtues, a greater selection of the Virtues and Flaws listed below taken as Magical Qualities or Inferiorities, and additional magical powers. There appear to be naturally born lesser Blue Men found in the deep desert who are a form of Magic-kin — these humanoids lack Magic Might and do not suffer from the Monstrous Appearance Flaw, and may be more suitable as grog or companion characters. Alternatively, players desiring an exotic origin for their magus may consider the template for a Magic-kin Blue Man as a starting point for an Ex Miscellanea magus concept or as a potential maguslevel Mythic Companion designed as a Spirit Votary of the Black. Inherited Virtues: Dislocation, Geomancy, Greater Immunity: Deprivation, Lesser Geomancy, Lesser Immunity: Thirst, Personal Power: Aura of Rightful Authority, Desert Regio Network, Skinchanger (waral lizard), Ways of the Desert, Voice of the Desert.''
''Required Flaw: Vow (constantly wear litham veil). Inherited Flaws: Anchored to the Desert, Delusion (Tuareg superiority), Disﬁgured (blue dyed skin), Dutybound, Feral Scent, Obsessed (camels or racial purity), Overconﬁdent, Oversensitive (appearance), Poor Concentration, Proud (Major or Minor), Social Handicap (poor hygiene), Short Attention Span, Wanderlust, Weak Senses (Cold Sensitivity). Blue Men characters with Magic Might should be created using the rules presented in Realms of Power: Magic, Chapter 4.''

==The Shapeshifters of the Maghreb==

''There are numerous kinds of hyena shapechangers in the Maghreb: a magical kin, a faerie, and a folk witch tradition.''

==The Magical Bouda==

''Shapeshifting hyena-men who delight in preying on children, the bouda are a magical kin aligned with Animal and Corpus magic (Realms of Power:Magic, page''
''89), blending into communities throughout the Maghreb and the Tell. They live and hunt with equal comfort in human or hyena form, but most of them only transform at night and return to human form with the dawn. Particularly potent bouda can take a hybrid man-hyena shape. Even while in hyena form, a bouda can speak with a human voice, using this ability to lure the unsuspecting into an ambush. Often running in packs led by women, bouda can terrorize an area with the constant threat of death for those traveling or working outside. Lovers attempting secret trysts often fall to their hunger. A few traits can help identify a bouda. They often have red-tinged eyes, very hairy bodies, or a nasal voice and terrible breath. Domesticated animals hate bouda, and refuse to be touched by one. A bouda casts the shadow of a hyena, even in human form. Rumors of whole villages, or clusters of villages, populated by nothing but bouda persist.''
''BOUDA STATISTICS''
''Inherited Virtues: Personal Power: Deceitful Tongue, Lesser Power: Trembling Fear of the Predator’s Gaze, Skinchanger (this does not require an item, but the bouda may only change into hyenas, and only at night), Wilderness Sense Common Virtues: Personal Power: Rending Fangs, Ripping Jaws, The Beast Between Common Flaws: Driven: Terrorizing communities (Major), Dark Secret, Offensive to Animals.''
''Deceitful Tongue 0 points, Init (Qik+3), Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind The bouda may alter its voice to sound like another person or creature, speaking with a human voice in any language known to the creature, regardless of form. MuIm 3 (Base 1, +2 Sun): Personal Power (5 levels, –1 Might cost, +3 Init)''
''Rending Fangs 0 points, Init Qik –3, variable Form R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The bite of a hyena can destroy leather, bone, wood, cloth, stone, and metal with equal ease, as long as they can get their teeth around the object. In combat, they can use this power at the same time''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Predators and Prey Alike==

''A pack of bouda has begun hunting the local countryside and acquired a taste for the covenfolk of the magi. Will the magi discover the source of these killings and obliterate the bouda or bind them to their service? What happens if the bouda manage to inﬁltrate the covenant and start hunting from the inside? If the bouda do serve the magi, will their new masters satisfy the shapeshifters’ hunger for human ﬂesh with slaves or make true scavengers out of them?''

|}
''as an attack to remove a point of Protection from their opponent’s armor. They can also deliberately attack an opponent’s weapon or shield to destroy it. Resolve such an attack against weapons or armor as normal, and it succeeds if the hyena beats the opponent’s Defense Total by 3 or more. No damage is inﬂicted, and this power cannot be used at the same time as the Ripping Jaws power. PeTe(An, He) 30 (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 affect metal, +2 Requisites) Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost)''
''Ripping Jaws 0 points, Init Qik–2, Corpus R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The wounds inﬂicted by a hyena’s dreadful jaws are truly heinous, and take longer to heal. Chunks of ﬂesh are often ripped off, bones broken and organs ruptured. A character injured by a bouda with this power has a –3 to all recovery rolls, even those for wounds not inﬂicted by the bouda, until fully healed (ArM5, page 179). Incapacitating Wound recovery rolls remain unchanged, except that they should be described as being horriﬁc injuries with scars that never fade;''
''Fatal Wounds often result in the character being literally ripped apart. PeCo 20 (Base 15, +1 Touch) Greater Power (20 levels, –2 Might cost)''
''The Beast Between 3 points/Fatigue, Init Qik–2, Corpus R: Per, D: Sun, T: Part The bouda can change into a part-human, part-hyena form, with the head of a hyena, the rough musculature and upright gait of a man, and the claws, fur, and tail of a hyena. When in this form, the bouda keeps the mental Characteristics of his human form, but acquires the physical Char''

==Faerie Bouda (Werehyena)==

''These nocturnal predators of North Africa are renowned as grave-robbers but assume the role of blacksmiths, healers or wizards during the day. Unlike many Faerie creatures they appear to suffer pain, fatigue and hunger like their human neighbors. This bouda is designed as either a powerful companion or weak magus-level character with 6 points of Virtues and 3 points of Flaws remaining to assign. Less powerful versions exist which lack some of the more powerful supernatural powers detailed below and more powerful versions possess Entrancement, additional smithing magic such as the Touched by Faerie Realm Virtue, and other supernatural powers of mind control or shapeshifting.''
''Faerie Might: 15 Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre –4, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Conﬁdence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Crafter’s Healing or Focus Power (Blacksmithing), Faerie Beast (hyena), Faerie Speech, Greater Powers, Improved Characteristics, 2 x Increased Faerie Might, Keen Vision, Narrowly Cognizant, Passes for Human, Personal Faerie Power (Transform into Human), Puissant: Craft: Blacksmith; Feral Scent, Restricted Power (Transform into Human), Role Requires Suffering, Slow Might Recovery, Susceptible to Deprivation. Qualities: Crafty, Keen Eyesight, Large Teeth, Mimicry, Pursuit''
''Predator, Thick Fur Personality Traits: Untrustworthy +3 Combat: Hammer: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +9 Bite: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage +8 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (food), Brawl 3 (bite), Craft: Blacksmith 4+2, Guile 1 (feign death), Hunt 4 (tracking), Single Weapon 2 (hammer), Survival 3 (desert)''
''Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a hyena’s bite are Init 0, Atk +4, Def +1, Dam +3. Powers: Blacksmithing: 1 point per magnitude of the effect, Init variable, Terram. Duplicates any non-Ritual Creo, Muto, Rego, or Perdo spell pertaining to the Terram Form, at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the effect limited by their motif as blacksmiths. OR Crafter’s Healing: as the Major Supernatural Virtue of the same name (see City & Guild, page 71). Looked at Thrice: as Trembling Fear of the Predator’s Gaze The Shadow Stays the Hound: Paralyzes a''
''dog that the werehyena’s shadow falls on (Base 5, +2 Sight, +1 Conc) Transform into Human: 1 point, Init –1, Animal (1 intricacy point on cost). This power transforms the character into human form for Duration: Sun but only works at sunrise (Restricted Power). It is treated as a Personal level 20 MuAn(Co) effect. Equipment: Blacksmith tools, apron Vis: 3 pawns of Terram vis in tools Appearance: In its human form, the bouda has a disturbing odor, a nasal voice, and an ugly hairy body.''
''BOUDA BLOOD''
''The Faerie Blood template reﬂects a character descended from a Faerie bouda or belonging to their legendary tribe. See the rules for Faerie Blood (ArM5, page 42) and Faerie Legacy (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 112) for further details. Not all humans with bouda blood are Folk Witches but most bouda hedge magicians have this Minor Virtue.''
''Beneﬁts: +1 to Strength or Intelligence, but not to more than +3 Legacy: +1 bonus to Strength or Intelligence, can go as high as +4 Sympathies: Wastelands, Cruelty, Mimicry Other Virtues and Flaws: Entrancement, Puissant Guile, Skinchanger (hyena); Disﬁgured, Feral Scent Appearance: Hairless except for back, hunch-backed, always have red eyes''
''acteristics of a hyena. He has a bipedal stance and usable hands, and has the bite attack of a hyena (Weapon statistics: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +4). The bouda’s hide provides a Protection of +2. If the bouda has the ability to change shape, it can end this power prematurely by transforming; otherwise the hybrid form lasts for Sun duration. MuCo 25 (Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 Part, free Animal Requisite) Personal Power (This effect uses the standard guideline for turning a human into an animal, with Part Target to transform only part of the target.)''
''Trembling Fear of the Predator’s Gaze 0 points, Init (Qik–2), Mentem R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind While the bouda locks eyes, the target cannot run. The target may still use his hands or call out, but cannot move. He may not dodge or ﬂee, and loses any beneﬁt of his Quickness to Defense, and suffers a –3 penalty to his Defense ReCo 5 (Base 2, +1 Eye, +1 Conc, +1 to affect both legs): Lesser Power (5 levels, –2 Might cost, +2 Init)''

==Faerie Bouda==

''In folklore, werehyenas have the following characteristics: larger than a normal size (Size +1 at least, Large), hairy and hunch-backed with hind legs shorter than forelimbs (Disﬁgure, Repellant and/or Hunchback) and glowing red eyes (Piercing Gaze). Many North African jinn, both Faerie and Infernal, have the ability to assume the form of a hyena and are often confused with magical bouda. Another form of the bouda is detailed below, a Dark Faerie creature found from Morocco to the Sudan that wears human shape during the day and reverts back to its hyena form at night. Although only narrowly cognizant, these Faerie bouda are intelligent and develop Pretenses to ﬁt into the village societies they secretly plague, mimicking the magical bouda.''

==Folk Witch Bouda==

''Some human bouda of Morocco claim to belong to a legendary clan or tribe — their magic is believed to be passed down by their parents. Unlike the Folk Witches detailed in Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 33–54, these magicians are usually male (although their Gender Shift ability causes confusion) and have a more limited set of Favored Abilities aligned to the Faerie realm rather than the Magic realm. This is offset by en''

==New Virtues and Flaws==

''The following Virtues and Flaws are often possessed by folk witch bouda.''
''SEX SHIFT''
''Minor Virtue, Supernatural, Tainted Each midnight, the character may choose to change sex. The character’s male and female forms are consistent across transformations, and usually appear to be blood kin of each other. The character’s Personality Traits may vary slightly between forms. Pregnant characters may not use this Power.''
''THERIOMORPH''
''Minor Virtue, Mystery or Supernatural Using this Virtue, a hedge wizard may apply any Quality or Virtue possessed by a single animal chosen when the Virtue is taken to her human form on a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6. This process takes a whole round. She gains all the beneﬁts for that Quality, but also undergoes a physical change to reﬂect the abilities acquired. For example, if Crushing Jaws is added to the human form, the hedge wizard acquires the muzzle and teeth of her chosen animal. If she adds Keen Eyesight, her eyes change to red or another unusual color. The maga may acquire natural weapons in this fashion, employing them using her human Brawl Ability. To rid herself of the Quality or Virtue, the hedge wizard must make another Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Use of this Virtue counts as a con''
''stant mystical effect with respect to Warping. Use of this Virtue in front of others (particularly mundanes) may have a strong psychological effect; a Brave roll (Ease Factor 9+the character’s Warping score) may be required to face such a creature. This Virtue can only be taken if the individual possesses either the Shapeshifter or Skinchanger Virtue, or the Lycanthrope Flaw. A similar Bjornaer Minor Mystery, Theriomorphy, is described in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 29. Most Bjornaer magi dislike the Mystery and hedge wizards that employ this Virtue, but some manage to overcome their revulsion for shapeshifting in return for its utility.''
''FERAL SCENT''
''Minor Flaw, General Perhaps due to his beast blood or feral upbringing, the character has the strong natural smell of a wild animal. Humans tend to avoid being too close to him, and may be on edge in his vicinity without knowing why. He may well spook domesticated animals if he surprises them. He suffers a –1 penalty to social interactions (which stacks with the penalties imposed by The Gift, if he has it), and develops a negative Reputation of Unclean at level 2. However, if he has Initiated the Sensory Magic Mystery, any spells he casts with a Scent Target have twice their normal area of effect. (From Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 38)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Plinian Races as Faeries==

''Stories are told of the existence of the Plinian races, although they rarely fulﬁll any speciﬁc role in those stories other than as a wonder to behold. Nevertheless, a storyguide might prefer to use some or all of the monstrous races presented here as faeries rather than Magic Humans. This is a simple process, as most Magic Qualities have analogs amongst the Faerie Virtues. Faerie Powers are calculated the same way as Magic Powers. Faerie monstrous races will mostly be Incognizant of their status.''

|}
''hanced control over their hyena form and gender, mind control powers, and either blacksmithing or woodcarving magic (typically Muto Terram or Muto Herbam effects). Some bouda have additional powers such as Animal Healing, Summon Animals, or additional smithing powers. Most human bouda are Gifted, but unGifted characters descended from bouda or Faerie-touched individuals can be initiated into the tradition using Initiations, following the rules presented in the Introduction of Hedge Magic Revised Edition. The Ordeal Flaws inﬂicted by these variant Folk With Initiations generally relate to the unsavory qualities of the hyena and their poor reputation or physical deformity: Feral Scent, Disﬁgured, Hunchback, Tainted by Evil, or Repellent. Required Virtues: Folk Witch; Gender Shift, Theriomorph, Touched by Faerie Realm. Required Flaws: Judged Unfairly, Short-Ranged Curses, Primitive Tradition. Favored Abilities: Animal Ken, Cursing, Entrancement, Healing, Second Sight, Skinchanger (hyena). Human bouda accumulate Warping in the same manner as other hedge magicians, but as their Warping Score increases they transform slowly into an inhuman Faerie bouda, similar to the way a gruagach transforms into a troll (see HMRE, page 71–72). This replaces the usual Witch’s Moon rules for this tradition.''

==The Monstrous Races of Africa==

''Africa is home to numerous tribes of monstrous races. These were mentioned, along with similar races in India, by ancient historiographers like Ctesias, Megasthenes, and Pliny, and are sometimes referred to as the “Plinian races.” In the main these peoples keep to themselves, living their lives much as their''
''human neighbors do. On occasion they come into contact with humans, either through encounters in the wilderness, or   because they visit towns to trade. While this is sufﬁciently uncommon to be a spectacle, knowledge of the existence and nature of these creatures is widespread, and they do not automatically provoke fear or hatred. In Ars Magica Fifth Edition, most of the Plinian monstrous races are Magic Humans (Realms of Power: Magic, Chapter 4). For sagas based in North Africa, they can be a curiosity born from the exotic''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Awful Truth About Anthropophagi==

''Anthropophagi share a Greater Malediction that prevents them from avoiding Acclimation through staying in a Magic aura; instead, they must conduct a ceremony at least once per year in which they eat human ﬂesh. Without this ceremony, they lose a Magic Quality each year until they have none left and become an ordinary (if hideous) mortal. Some are fortunate enough to have a family member die, and they can partake in feasting on his body: one corpse can feed ﬁve individuals. Failing that, an anthropophagus has to take matters into his own hands to keep his family alive. Those who tire of the constant quest for human meat and allow themselves to succumb to Acclimation are usually the ﬁrst to be preyed upon by their fellows. As a last resort, anthropophagi turn to nearby human settlements for their sustenance.''
''A well-kept secret of the anthropophagi is that not all of them were born into the race. A human who partakes in the ceremony gains the Transformed Human Virtue balanced with the Greater Malediction Flaw. A village of anthropophagi sometimes spares a victim’s life and share this secret, granting him continued immortality on the condition that he returns to his home and works to procure the sacred meal for them each year. A Transformed Human only gradually acquires the physical appearance of an anthropophagus: after partaking in ﬁve ceremonies he takes on the Disﬁgured Flaw to represent a degradation of his human features towards the horrid mien of an anthropophagus; after ﬁfteen ceremonies he has become sufﬁciently monstrous that he must leave human society and take up residence with his new kin.''

|}
''backdrop of this land of fable, or central characters in the saga. Alternatively, players might use a member of the monstrous races as an unusual character. For a more exotic saga, the whole troupe could be drawn from one or more of these races. To create a character from a monstrous race one should follow the usual rules for Magic Characters (Realms of Power: Magic, Chapter 4). Most characters will be Spring season. Magic Might should be chosen according to the type of character and the saga constraints: a grog typically has a Magic Might of 0 to 5, and a companion character a Magic Might of 5 to 15. Each of the templates below have a set of Magic Qualities and Inferiorities that describe the race’s key characteristics; these are balanced for a net cost of zero. Note that in some circumstances not all the permissible levels of Lesser and Personal Powers have been spent. If created as Magic Kin (who have no Might score), any Powers can be translated to the appropriate Virtue. In common with all Magic Humans, the Plinian races have the Monstrous Appearance Inferiority for free, and like all magical entities they are immune to deprivation (hunger, thirst, and suffocation) unless stated otherwise. None of the races have their own language; they speak whatever languages are used by their human neighbors.''
''CHOOSING A SOCIAL STATUS VIRTUE OR FLAW''
''Magic Humans usually take one of the special Social Status Virtues or Flaws given in Realms of Power: Magic (Magical Master; Magical Champion; Magical Covenfolk; Magical Friend; Magical Monster) to represent how they are treated by human society. The monstrous races are better integrated into North African society due to long association, and as such the choices of a player in this regard are expanded to include many Virtues and Flaws available to regular humans. A Magic Human who moves into a town or city usually has the Outcast Minor Social Status Flaw: he is not human, and will never be completely accepted as human by his neighbors. However, at the option of the troupe, the character (or his family) might have a long association with the community in question, and may be able to choose a Free Social Status Virtue instead. Only in exceptional circumstances can a member of a monstrous race have a Major or Minor Social Status Virtue. One place where this might occur is at a covenant or amongst other supernatural characters. If a saga is set in the tribelands of a monstrous race, then a Magic Human could have any conceivable Social Status Virtue or Flaw. Note that a Magic Human who lives amongst humans needs some means of avoiding Acclimation (Realms of Power: Magic, pages 52 – 54); tribes of the Plinian races usually choose their homelands based on the presence of a Magic aura. Regardless of how he is treated by locals, when visiting a different region a Magic Human is treated as an Outcast. EThe exception is if his race is unknown or hostile to the populace, then he is treated as if he has the Outsider Major Social Status Flaw instead.''
''ANTHROPOPHAGUS, OR MANEATER''
''Magic Qualities: Improved Attack (Bite), Improved Damage (Bite) x 2 Magic Inferiorities: Major Flaw (Greater Malediction)* *See insert A particularly repugnant race, the anthropophagus has the shape of a man''
''with an immense pot belly. His mouth is crowded with the tusks of a hippopotamus, and he has small piggy eyes and sparse hair. However, it is is not their appearance that repulses their human neighbors, but the anthropophagi’s habit of eating the ﬂesh of their dead. Any of their members that succumbs death through misadventure is ritually consumed by their friends and family. They avoid eating those who have died of disease, unless the malady is clearly limited to a single organ. The anthropophagi makes drinking vessels from the skulls of the most famous members of each family, and adorn themselves with other body parts. Unlike other Magic Humans, an anthropophagus is not tolerated in human settlements, for all they protest that they have no interest in eating those not of their own family. Modiﬁed by his Magic Qualities, the weapon statistics for an anthropophagus’s tusks are: Initiative 0, Attack +6, Defense +2, Damage +11''
''ASTOMUS, OR MOUTHLESS''
''Magic Qualities: Minor Virtue (Enchanting Music), Minor Virtue (Puissant Music), Personal Powers Magic Inferiorities: Minor Flaw (Fragile Constitution), Minor Flaw''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Astomus Power==

''The Tongueless Voice No cost, constant effect, Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind An astomus can cause any noise to issue from her head. This include speech, song, and music, as well as any other noise. Volume is limited to that possible for a human. She can only be silenced by suppressing this magical power. CrIm 10 (Base 1, +2 Sun, +1 intelligible speech, +1 intricacy, +1 constant effect) Personal Power (10 levels, –1 cost)''

==Maritimus Power==

''Double Sighted No cost, constant effect, Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Vision A maritimus can see distant things clearly. No matter how far away something is, he can make out details as if it were only a foot away. Things do not all appear to be a foot away, he can simply make out details as if they were. He can still judge distances accurately, in fact more accurately, than normal, to within an inch or so at a distance of several miles. InIm 30 (Base 3, +2 Sun, +4 Vision, +1 constant effect) Personal Power x2 (30 levels, –3 cost)''

|}
''(Warped Senses: Sensitive Smell), Reduced Fatigue The astomi have no mouth, but they have no need to breathe, eat, or drink. They get some form of sustenance through their sense of smell; they particularly like apples and often carry them around with them, from which they get their other name of “Apple-Smellers.” It is said that a particularly bad odor can kill them; this may not be true but it can certainly incapacitate one. An astomus is covered all over by soft and silky pale hair, but wears garments made of a soft cotton or down that is harvested from trees. Despite having no mouth, an astomus can still speak; they have high, trilling voices and superb singers. Emperor Frederick Barbarosa kept a choir of three astomi to entertain his court, although they did not thrive in the European climate, and soon sickened and died.''
''BLEMMYA''
''Magic Qualities: Minor Virtue (Puissant Bargain), Minor Virtue (Tough) Magic Inferiorities: Minor Flaw (Hunchback), Minor Flaw (Poor Hearing) The blemmyae are a race of merchants who live mostly in the deserts of Libya, although there is a large tribe living in the upper reaches of the Nile. They make very little produce themselves, but''
''are consummate bargainers, and good at buying low and selling high. They lead camel trains across the sands, relying on their immunity to thirst to make longer treks than their human competitors. Blemmyae have faces on their chests, lacking heads and necks. The shoulders of blemmyae are spaced wide apart, leaving their faces larger than those of a nor''
''mal human. Their hearing is poor, since their ears are positioned beneath their arms. Blemmyae have hairless bodies, and wear no clothes on the upper part of their body. Fortunately for them, their bodies are naturally more resistant to damage. Blemmyae who wish to wear armor must devise some means to permit themselves to see; this normally requires them to wear rigid armor like boiled leather or plate-and-mail with eye holes or a visor. They cannot use large shields effectively. Blemmyae warriors tend to be mounted skirmishers armed with slings rather than front-line ﬁghters.''
''CYNOCEPHALUS, OR DOG-HEAD''
''Magic Qualities: Gigantic, Minor Virtue (Sharp Ears) Magic Inferiorities: Major Flaw (Age Quickly); Susceptible to Deprivation The cynocephali are a race of dog-headed giants who can be found throughout the coastal region of North Africa. They are most common in Cyrenaica; some say that the Canary Islands are named after ancient Dog-Head inhabitants. According to lore popular in the Eastern Church (but known in the West), Saint Christopher was a cynocephalus born under the name Reprobus; upon baptism his fur turned white. A cynocephalus is of gigantic stature, reaching up to ten feet tall. Their bodies are human in form except for the covering of coarse black fur, thicker on the back and arms. Their heads are those of dogs, with erect ears and long snouts ﬁlled with dagger-like teeth. As well as having good hearing, a cynocephalus has an exceptional sense of smell, and receives a +3 to all rolls involving''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Panotius Power==

''Auricular Flight 1 point, Init equal to (Qik –2), Corpus R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind At the cost of one short term Fatigue level, a panotius can take ﬂight. He can travel at about the speed of a running horse. Instead of the normal Concentration roll to maintain the spell, he must make a Stamina + Concentration roll against an Ease Factor of 6 every minute or lose a further Fatigue level. A panotius cannot ﬂy when at the Dazed Fatigue level. They use the Athletics Ability to maneuver while ﬂying. ReCo 20 (Base 15, +1 Conc) Personal Power (20 Levels, –1 cost)''

==Tripithamus Powers==

''The Sun’s Glance No cost, constant effect, Ignem R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind''
''The eyes of a tripithamus constantly shed beams of light much like a lantern, illuminating an area up to ﬁve paces from her face. This is barely noticeable during the day, but obvious at night. The tripithamus can only shut off the light by closing her eyes, or spending a Conﬁdence point (if she has any). Her sight is not impeded by this power. CrIg 15 (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 constant effect) Greater Power (10 levels, –2 cost)''
''The Sun’s Breath 1 point, Init equal to (Qik – 1), Ignem R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind''
''A tripithamus can heat objects by breathing on them. This is sufﬁcient to cause metal to glow red hot, cause water to instantly boil, or to ignite ﬂammable substances. Objects heated with this power cool normally. The object affected can be no bigger than the tripithamus’s head. CrIg 10 (Base 5, +1 Touch), Greater Power (10 levels)''
''The Sun’s Shout 1 point, Init equal to (Qik +1), Ignem R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind''
''A tripithamus can spit a dart of ﬁre at any object within Voice Range. The ﬂames inﬂict +5 damage if the effect Penetrates Magic Resistance. CrIg 10 (Base 4, +2 Voice), Greater Power (10 levels, +2 Init)''

==Troglodyte Power==

''Eyes of the Bat No cost, constant effect, Auram R: Per, D: Sun, T: Hearing A troglodyte can move around in complete darkness, as per the Hermetic spell of the same name (ArM5, page 127). InAu 30 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing, +1 constant effect) Greater Power (30 levels, –3 cost)''

|}
''scents, including ﬁnding and following a trail. A Dog-Head often has the Afﬂicted Tongue Flaw, since his mouth and long tongue are not ideally suited to the production of words, although others of his race can understand him perfectly. The Dog-Heads have a primitive society that revolves around hunting with spears. Both males and females take part in this activity, and their prey are antelopes and wild goats. Occasionally they take livestock bringing them into conﬂict with humans. They do not cook''
''their meat; although capable of making ﬁre they have little use for it. They wear clothes made from the skins of their prey animals, and jewelry made from the bones; they occasionally trade skins and leather for wool garments, clay pots, and other consumables. Most cynocephali are pagan, worshiping the jnun and other spirits. Arab culture and Islam in general is hostile towards dogs, and this distaste carries over to the Dog-Heads.''
''MARITIMUS''
''Magic Qualities: Lesser Powers x 2, Minor Virtue (Keen Vision), Minor Virtue (Sense Holiness & Unholiness) Magic Inferiorities: Major Flaw (Age Quickly); Susceptible to Deprivation The maritimi are a race with a second set of eyes placed above their normal ones. Unsurprisingly, the Maritimi have particularly keen sight, and are expert archers. It is said that they turn one eye to God in order to live rightly, one eye to the world to avoid sin, one eye to the Devil which they ought to ﬂee, and one eye to the ﬂesh which they ought to punish. True to this homily, nearly all the maritimi are Christian, having been converted during the days of the Vandals. Not all of them are particularly good Christians, since one can occasionally be found serving as lookout on the pirate ships that ply the Barbary coast. Most maritimi live in the coastal regions of Mauritania where they make a living from the sea, ﬁshing and collecting shellﬁsh.''
''PANOTIUS, OR ALL-EAR''
''Magic Qualities: Improved Abilities, Improved Fatigue, Minor Virtue (Sharp Ears), Personal Powers Magic Inferiorities: Major Flaw (Age Quickly); Susceptible to Deprivation The most obvious feature of the panotii are their remarkably long ears, which reach down to the ground. They normally loop their furled ears around their arms to prevent them from trailing in the dirt. When cold, they can fold their ears about their bodies to keep themselves warm. Panotii are timid beings, and usually ﬂee upon seeing strangers. This is when the most useful feature of their ears becomes''
''obvious — when unfurled, they can be used as wings and enable the panotius to ﬂy. The panotii have skin as white as milk, but they are otherwise human in appearance, and dress in clothing typical of local humans. The panotii are a peaceful race who grow fruit trees in secluded valleys and oases, preferably in the shelter of tall cliffs. They do not eat meat or work metal, but are considered knowledgeable in legends and lore, and occasionally sought out for their wisdom. Most of them have the Noncombatant Flaw, and prefer to ﬂee to an inaccessible vantage point rather than ﬁght''
''TRIPITHAMUS''
''Magic Qualities: Greater Powers; Ignem Resistance, Improved Damage x 2*, Improved Initiative* Magic Inferiorities: Miniature, Major Flaw (Age Quickly); Minor Flaw (Small Frame) *These Qualities apply to the copper swords carried by warriors, see later. Only three spans high (27 inches, Size –3), the Tripithami come from the far south, on the edge of the torrid zone. They are also known as Pygmaei, ultimately from the Greek word for the length of the forearm. Their skins are black from being charred by the sun. They absorb the heat and light from the sun: their eyes shed light like a lantern letting them see in the dark, their breath is hot enough to boil water, and they can spit forth a bolt of ﬁre. They do not make any clothes, instead they braid their long hair into garments using grasses and beads. Tripithamus warriors carry a copper sword that bursts into ﬂame whenever drawn; these are prepared by the tribe’s priests, and only work in the hands of a tripithamus. Use the statistics of a short sword (ArM5, page 176) but increase Initiative by +3 and Damage by +6. Tripithamus society is matriarchal, and the involvement of their menfolk varies from tribe to tribe. In some tribes the men are little more than slaves, while in others they are almost equal to the women. Tripithami are mostly pagan and build shrines in honor of ﬁre and the sun. Tripithami grow crops and raise proportionally diminutive cattle for milk, and normal-sized goats or ostriches for mounts. They are at constant war with a race of supernatural cranes, who steal their grain.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Other Monstrous Races==

''An Amyctyra has a lower lip that protrudes so far it can be used as an umbrella against the sun. They live entirely on raw meat, and are unfriendly toward outsiders. The Androgynus, or Man-Woman has the anatomy of both sexes, and maintains a society that is independent of gender roles. An Artibatira walks on all fours, having shorter legs and longer arms than most humans, and a longer neck. They are otherwise human in form, but lack the power of speech. The Erythropodes, or Red-Feet, are twenty four feet tall. Their arms are white to the shoulders, and they have black ears, red feet, a round head, and long noses. They live near the river Brixon, a tributary of the Nile The Gorillae are a race of hairy humans mentioned by Hanno the Navigator, a Carthaginian explorer. They have six ﬁngers on each hand and boar’s teeth. The menfolk have tails in most tribes, although there are some tribes where both male and female gorillae are tailless. A Hippopod or Horse-Foot has just two long toes like those of an ostrich, and two broad ﬁngers like the claws of a lobster. They are exceptionally swift runners The Monoculus, or One-Eye, is often confused with cyclopes; while the race shares the single eye in the center of the forehead, the monoculus does not have the same gigantic stature.''

|}

==A Note on Jinn and Realms==

''Jinn of the wild are elemental spirits of the land, usually tied to some natural feature such as an oasis, a mountain, or a stretch of desert. It is said that when you are alone in the Sahara, you can hear the whisperings of thousands of invisible jinn. This sort of jinni is a true genius loci aligned to the Magic realm. As such, it cannot venture far from the land it is bound to unless it forms a magical bargain or is somehow coerced. These are the sorts of jinn that are of the most interest to sahirs (both Hermetic and non-Hermetic), and they are easy to identify as jinn using Magic Lore or an appropriate Area Lore. These wild spirits are the most primal manifestation of the jinn. All true jinn have the Free Virtue Jinn, which marks their susceptibility to Sihr and the arts of the sahir. Nearly all jinn also have the Major Virtue of Ways of the (Land) plus the Major Flaw of Greater Malediction: Bound by Bargains. Jinn often possess a wide variety of powers that involve deception, including assuming different material and bestial forms, ﬂying, invisibility, and conjuring wealth and other items. Jinn aligned to the Magic realm often possess powers with one or more elemental Forms (matching the alignment of its Might score). Not all jinn in Africa are aligned with the Magic realm. There are many Faerie jinn that ape the customs and manners of the local Berber, Bedouin and Tuareg cultures they adjoin, such as the Siadna and Kel Asouf. There are also jinn afﬁliated with the Infernal Realm such as the Shayatin and the Ghuls. Further details, as well as guidelines for creating jinn aligned to other supernatural realms and additional examples to use as templates, are provided in The Cradle and the Crescent, Chapter Four.''
''JNUN AND THEIR ANIMAL SHAPES''
''Some jinn can only assume an incorporeal, single humanoid or designated animal shape but many jinn can assume multiple animal shapes or have an additional animal shape in addition to a corporeal humanoid form created by Coagulation, Donning the Corporeal Veil, or an equivalent power for Faerie jinn. Although multiple animal shapes may be easily represented by multiple selections of magical Powers, it can be difﬁcult''
''to construct a low Might jinni with multiple powers, and there are other means to reﬂect these multiple shifting shapes. One approach is to use the Skinchanger Virtue for additional animal shapes, a selection which is generally cheaper than selecting multiple Virtues to build up levels for Magical Powers. This Minor Virtue ties the additional shape to a trinket linked to the animal form that can be lost or stolen, and may be particularly appropriate to Faerie jinn that have a primary humanoid physical form and interact with human society closely, mimicking the behavior of humans. This trinket can also be linked to other Flaws or be the focus item for either the Minor or Major version of the External Vis Flaw. At the troupe’s discretion, another approach is to link the Donning the Corporeal Veil power (or Faerie Equivalent) with the Shapeshifter Ability (taken as a Major Quality, or as a Major Virtue for Faerie jinn) using the Restricted Power Flaw, allowing the jinni to manifest in a number of additional forms equal to the ability score. The jinni doesn’t need to roll to switch forms; it simply discards one form and manifests in the shape desired. Each form is considered part of the jinni’s Essential Nature and the power isn’t limited to just animal shapes. Individual jinni may choose variants such as an elemental form, a more regal (or more humble) version of their normal self, or even an inanimate object. The jinni can vary the size of their manifestation, to as large as their base size + Shapeshifter score, or as small as base size – (twice Shapeshifter score). So, for example, a larger than human sized jinni with a Size of +1 and a score of 3 in Shapeshifter can appear as large as Size +4 or as small as –5. The Restricted Power Flaw manifests in that, no matter what the alternate form, there is always some tell-tale sign of the jinni’s true identity. Beast forms have certain distinct similarities and contribute features to other shapes. An elemental form may take the shape of the jinni or bear his likeness somehow. Even an alternate human form still exhibits a signature quirk or carries a trademark object. The jinni also cannot lie about his identity, though he may introduce himself by any one of the different parts of his true name, use a recognized nickname, or spell the name backwards.''
''HYBRID ANIMAL SHAPES AND A NOTE ON THERIOMORPHY''
''Hybrid shapes composed of human and animal elements are also a common “natural” form of Faerie jinn when they appear in their physical form or as a secondary physical form. Such jinn forms can be created by incorporating and combining various elements of the animals listed here or in the Book of Mundane Beasts. Examples in the tales include the jinni that piloted the boat that carried Khidr, who was a giant with the head of an elephant, lifting its passengers with its trunk into its craft from the dock, and some ghul are described as having the ears and feet of a donkey but the jaws of a jackal. Other more outlandish chimeric shapes are possible using various combinations of existing animals or combining a number of non-magical Qualities in unique ways. The Minor Mystery Virtue Theriomorphy (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 27) or the Theriomorph Virtue earlier, may be applicable for Faerie or Magic jinn with both a humanoid and an animal form that wish to change only part of their human form into an animal feature, thereby gaining one of the non-magical Qualities or Characteristics of that animal. As an example, a jinni with both the ability to shift into lion form and this Virtue may choose to assume a hybrid shape with a lion’s head, and thus gain the use of the lion’s bite or the beneﬁt of its Imposing Appearance Quality. A dark Faerie ghul with humanoid and jackal forms may similarly use this effect to leave it’s legs that of a jackal and gain the jackal’s Quickness score or Fast Runner Quality. A dark Faerie ‘afrit able to assume the forms of an adder and a red-skinned horned humanoid may use this Virtue to appear with a snake’s head and gain the beneﬁt of the creature’s Loathsome Appearance Quality or become more ﬂexible and scaled to reﬂect using the snake’s Slippery Quality. This Virtue may also be applicable to Infernal jinn with humanoid and animal forms, although the example Infernal ghul on page 73 of The Cradle and the Crescent uses the Change Form power common to the Order of Furies to shift between multiple animal and human shapes with ease, and choosing this power for Infernal jinn may be more appropriate.''
''TROGLODYTE, OR HOLE-CREEPER''
''Magic Qualities: Major Virtue (Greater Power); Minor Virtue (Great Quickness) x 2 Magic Inferiorities: Major Flaw (Mute); Minor Flaw (Warped Senses: Sensitive Sight), Minor Flaw (Small Frame) Troglodyte tribes have been encountered by those clans of Berbers who dig caves in which to house their members. Whilst excavating new tunnels, the Berbers have broken through into preexisting caves, and come into contact with the troglodytes who have been dwelling in the darkness since time immemorial. Sometimes these encounters are peaceful and the two tribes live in harmony, with the troglodytes remaining in the depths and the Berbers living nearer the entrance. Occasionally, the ﬁrst meeting between human and troglodyte erupts into violence, which does not end until one side has been exterminated. Troglodytes are thin and pale. They have tiny eyes that cannot tolerate bright light, but huge pink ears. They naturally go naked, but after encountering humans tend to adopt clothes traded with them, or else made from the animals that live in the cave depths; leather made from pale ﬁsh skins or mangy rat pelts, mostly. Troglodytes cannot speak; whether they have any capacity to learn speech is debatable, but none have ever heard them utter a single sound. They communicate with each other through touch and sign language, but this is unknown to humans and they use simple gestures to trade. Troglodytes are exceptionally fast, although humans usually only experience this as they ﬂee from the light. They have a great hatred for snakes, and kill them wherever they ﬁnd them.''

==The Jnun==

''The jnun are an important class of supernatural creatures in Mythic Africa. While many of them are aligned with the Faerie realm, there are also many exceptions. The inhabitants of this region think more in terms of jnun than in terms of the supernatural realms to which these crea''
''tures belong, which may cause confusion as magi try to learn about these beings.''

==Jnun or Jnoun? – African Jinn and nonJinn==

''The terms jnun, jnoun and jinn are considered almost interchangeable, being just local dialect variations across the length of the Maghreb — the plural term jnun is used more commonly the further west one travels, whereas jnoun is used in the lands once dominated by the Carthaginians and the purer usage of jinn is heard more often in Egypt or spoken by Arabic merchants visiting from the east. In mechanical terms, a jinn is a specific class of creature subject to the Art of Sihr and its legacy of command passed down from the wisdom of Suleiman. Although many jnun (and jnoun) are jinn, there are many exceptions, giving rise to tales of Libyan and Tunisian “jinn” being much more difﬁcult to control than their eastern counterparts.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Awlad al-Hut==

''A secret brotherhood drawn from a select group of Tunisian ﬁsherman commonly known colloquially as the Ouata (“ﬁshermen”), the Awlad al-Hut are a small society of men who cling to pre-Islamic totemic beliefs amidst the orthodoxy emanating from Mahdia. Fisherman belonging to the society are initiated into a non-Hermetic Mystery Cult. They are predominantly unGifted, but some of their leaders may belong to hedge magic traditions and have the powers of Mythic Alchemists or Water Elementalists, seemingly aligned to the Faerie rather than Magic Realm (see Hedge Magic: Revised Edition).''

|}
''GHOLAS: THE GHOULS''
''The ghola is a large female jinn that shifts shape to hide its normally grotesque form of a hairy goat-footed ogress similar to the teryel. Known as cannibals that attract their prey through softly worded mimicry of voices, these dark Faerie creatures resemble the ghula of other lands (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 71). A more savage creature using the same name is found only in the eastern necropoli of the Siwah Oasis and has more in common with creatures living in Egypt or the Sinai mountains. These hulking ghuls possess sorcerous powers and assume the forms of jackals, hyenas, or vultures. Such ghuls are demonic jinn similar to the Infernal Ghul detailed in The Cradle and the Crescent, page 73.''
''SHAYATIN: THE DEVILS''
''Shayatin are the wicked invisible spirits that haunt graveyards, ruins, thresholds, and latrines. These creatures tempt and corrupt humans in similar ways to more European demons. Mechanically these creatures are the same as the shaitan of the eastern lands, that is they are corrupt Infernal jinn equivalent to the mazzikim, succubi, Evil Spirits, and many other immaterial demons detailed in Realms of Power: the Infernal. All shayatin can be affected by Sihr.''
''LERIAH: THE JNUN OF THE AIR''
''The leriah are Disease Spirits, a type of demon that can wield its Diseased Possession power to inﬂict magical contagion on its victims. Seven tribes of leriah exist, with each claiming a day of the week as their own which they torment their victims on. As they are not true jinn, they are not affected by Sihr.''
''AFARTA: THE WINGED MESSENGERS AND NOBLES''
''Related to the leriah but in a class of their own are the afarta (singular: afrit), powerful spirits of the air ranked higher than other jnoun that rival the most powerful marid of the Mythic Middle East in power. Many lesser afarta can take the form of long-haired winged serpents and act as messengers for the sultan of the jinn, commanded by their chief, Eblis. Despite this, almost no creatures of this type are jinn themselves. Greater afarta are the nobles of the jnun, terrifying creatures of great power and monstrous appearance. Some take the form of multi-headed serpents while others assume the form of beast-headed giants. Many afarta can possess humans — such an individual is known to the locals as a majnun, a madman. Even more than other African jnun, the Realm alignment of greater afarta varies, but most are aligned to the Magic Realm and resemble Magic variants of the elementally aligned demons known as the Aerial Powers. These greater afrit lords can grant resistance to magical summoning and control to their subjects as well, similar to the Recalcitrance power of the Aerial Spirits, ensuring their independence from magicians that would seek to control them (See Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 42). Despite the similarity of the name to the Mythic Middle Eastern jinni known as an ‘afrit (plural: ‘afarit), lesser afarta are considered Infernal dragons and not true jinn — they are thus not affected by Sihr and cannot be summoned by sahir. Mechanically speaking, the more powerful entities of this class are also not classiﬁed as true jinn and are therefore immune to the power of Sihr. The most powerful greater afarta are actually Daimons of the Magic Realm, manifesting as Aspects when they are encountered in Africa, and are not''
''easily controlled by non-theurgical Hermetic magic. When the Order of Suleiman speak of the untamable jinn of the Maghrib and Libya, they are often referring to the lesser and greater afarta rather than the ‘afarit of their homelands. Only the fabled Seal of Solomon, a lost non-Hermetic artifact, is believed to be able to easily control these highly independent African spirits.''
''BAHARIA: THE JNOUN OF THE SEA''
''Unique to Africa, and found in particular living in the coastal areas around the Tunisian peninsular, are the jnoun al-Bahar, the jnoun of the sea. Said to inhabit all the oceans, this highly hierarchical tribe of Faerie creatures is ruled by their own sultan, Sidi Moussa, who dwells in a vast Faerie regio off the southern Mediterranean coast named “the seventh depth.” Sidi Moussa in turn pays homage only to the Sultan al-Hut, the Lord of Fishes, a dark and powerful pre-Islamic Faerie deity that is the apex of a feudal court of marine animals. Baharia resemble mermen or tritons, with human torsos and their lower bodies resembling ﬁsh. They are believed to be responsible for storms and tempests, occasionally prompting sacriﬁces and rituals from superstitious locals despite the teachings of Islam. Details for mermen and tritons are given in Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 90–91. Although Faerie creatures with many similarities to their land-dwelling jnun cousins, baharia are not considered true jinn mechanically and cannot be affected by Sihr. They may share many of the Traditional Wards of jinn, including acknowledging the authority of Islam, and can be summoned using other magical powers, but the magic of Solomon’s legacy appears to have little effect on them.''
''SIADNA: THE MASTERS UNDERGROUND''
''The Walad al-Ahmar (“sons of the Red”) and the Walad al-Akhdar (“sons of the Black”) are faerie creatures that live mainly amongst the people, albeit invisible or in the form of animals such as dogs, donkeys, camels, serpents, chickens, ﬁsh,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Al-Maghrebi: the Dark Magicians of Morocco==

''Throughout the Thousand Nights and One Nigh, the motif of the evil Moroccan magician runs like a sinister thread linking together tales of foolish trusting youths transforming into wise heroes after falling foul of the wiles of Moorish enchanters. These Faerie wizards commonly have non-Arabic names, typically Berber but in some of the more western tales and retellings of the story a similar ﬁgure with magian origins and Persian features ﬁlls the role of the primary antagonist. Seemingly Zoroastrian versions of these faeries are referred to as al-Majusi.''

|}
''or, particularly, cats. They dwell underground in secret lairs and palaces, corresponding to the common faeries of Europe in terms of roles and forms. These faeries most closely resemble the jinn of the east and are vulnerable to the traditional wards common to other jinn and the binding magics''
''of sahir. They can be created in more detail using the same rules for Pious jinn presented in The Cradle and the Crescent, Chapter Four: the Jinn.''
''KEL ASOUF: THE PEOPLE OF THE EMPTY PLACES''
''In the deep south of the desert dwell the nomadic Tuareg, thought by their Berber cousins to the north to be part supernatural due to their strange customs. However the Tuareg tell their own stories of invisible spirits that dwell in the empty places and night of the desert — the Kel Asouf, the jinn of the Great Desert, the lost tribes of the night. The Kel Asouf are considered true jinn and can be affected by Sihr — their links to eastern sahir are one of the reasons they are feared but respected by the Tuareg tribes, who resort to amulets and charms provided by their tribal settuten as protection.''

==Lowhush — A Berber Bestiary==

''To the Berbers, a wasteland or amadagh represents the outskirts of the Otherworld, a Faerie tainted region characterized by reversal — rivers ﬂow uphill, trees have roots that reach into the air, and sheep are black, with black milk. Although part underworld and land of the dead, an amadagh is above all a barren land, even if forested and is inhabited by dire threats and bestial dangers by deﬁnition. The amadagh is therefore where the lowhush (Berber: “monsters,” singular: lwash) are found, a collective term that encompasses dangerous mundane beasts, Magic spirits and monstrous Faeries. Supernatural lowhush are most similar to the European faeries detailed in Realms of Power: Faerie, Chapter 4: Faerie Bestiary, or have similarities to the eastern jinn described in The Cradle and the Crescent, Chapter Four: the Jinn. Local differences are described here, but for more details (including game statistics) refer to these two books.''

==Toaten (Ant-folk)==

''Magic Might: 5 (Terram) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre –2, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +3 Size: –2 Age: 15 (mature) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Human; Improved Characteristics, Warrior; Magical Monster; Anchored to Desert, Weakness (Fresh Fruit or Wine) (Individual toaten might have one more Virtue and Flaw.) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Improved Strength, No Fatigue; Great Strength x2, Lesser Power (Delve the Earth); Miniature, Monstrous Appearance; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Industrious +3, Toaten +3 Reputations: Amazing builders 4 (Local), Strange Creatures 3 (Local) Combat: Dodge: Init +3, Attack —, Defense +5, Damage — Fist: Init +3, Attack +3, Defense +6, Damage +1 Sling: Init +0, Attack +6, Defense +0, Damage +5 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Athletics 2 (climbing), Bargain 1 (setting prices), Brawl 2 (ﬁst), Living Language: Berber 4 (mining terms), Profession: Miner 3 (tunnels), Thrown Weapon 4 (sling) Powers: Delve the Earth, 0 points, Init 0, Terram: With a touch, the toata creates a tunnel a pace deep into the ground. Generally, the creatures use this power repeatedly to build''
''their warrens. They often use it to loosen stones near the area of effect, which they then use to build the great mounds often used for burials. [PeTe 10, 3 +1 Touch +1 Part +1 Stone] 2 mastery points spent on Might cost, 1 mastery point spent on initiative. Equipment: Toaten only carry small objects which might have caught their interest. Otherwise, they simply wear a loincloth made of camel hide. Vis: 1 pawn of Terram vis in hands. Appearance: Toaten appear to be a strange cross between an ant and a dwarf, but have a hairless, carapacelike ochre skin and two pairs of arms. Their eyes are large, black, and pupil-less, and their lower jaw has two jutting tusks which they often use to break stones free of the ground. Their four hands end in rough claws, and they’re almost always covered in dirt and grime. They wind their slings around their waists or like sashes, always keeping a mundane stone ready.''
''While not exactly monsters, the toaten (singular toata) are inhabitants of the Otherworld. These ant-dwarfs stand no taller than a young child, possess two sets of arms and an insect-like face. The toaten are willing to help mankind, claiming to be helpful servants of the Dii Mauri. Toaten labor ceaselessly in swarms, rebuilding the mountains which the lowhush constantly erode. Due to an ancient compact, the toaten erect and maintain the sacred tombs of the Berbers. For those willing to barter, and regularly trade in strange goods, the toaten can be persuaded to labor on behalf of man. They especially like fruit and wine, but drunk toaten do not work well at all.''
''GIANTS''
''The teryelen (singular: teryel) are primeval ogresses, the daughters of the Teryel, the ﬁrst woman and the ﬁrst witch or settut of the Berber creation myth. Superﬁcially similar to the ghul of Bedouin tales, the teryel fulﬁlls many roles and is many times a night terror but sometimes a savior of women suffering violence. The weaker variant referred to as an aicha bouteliss is little more than a brutish female giant of the forest, hard of hearing and short sighted, while the loundja is a beautiful creature that lingers near village wells and possesses the powers of a settut. Greater examples of teryelen wield magic on a scale with the highest Court Faeries of European myth and are African versions of Great Lezis, Faerie landholders of the wasteland, and keepers of great treasures. Both her husband, the waghzen, and the ogress’ son, sfar lahwa (Berber: “the whistling wind”) are more brutish creatures, best represented as Faerie Giants (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 98). A similar but more somber Faerie giant, the ajdhoun alkubur, haunts cemeteries and ancient tombs and another cyclopean son of the teryel, the moumoush aderghal, can be found throughout the forested hills of the Tell.''
''HATAF LARRAIS''
''The “bride snatcher,” another son of the teryel, is similar to the glanconer (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 74–75) but preys on young married women, fulﬁlling a role intermediate between child terror and sexual predator.''
''TALAFSA''
''This giant serpent has seven heads, resembling the hydra of Greek legends. A water spirit similar in role to a nereid or water nymph, the talafsa typically demands a maiden as annual sacriﬁce and brings drought to an area unless appeased.''
''JNUN''
''The jnun are also considered lowhush, although their forms and stories owe more to imported Arab and Bedouin concepts than native Berber beliefs.''

==The Divine==

''Unsurprisingly, varieties of Islam dominate Mythic Africa, and have done ever since the waves of the Prophet’s followers rode out of Arabia in the seventh century. Common in the region, Murabitin and Suﬁ mystics provide elements troupes are just as likely to encounter beyond a city’s walls as within an oasis’ mosque.''

==Murabitin==

''Murabitin (Arabic, singular murabit) or igurramen (Tamazight, singular agurram) play a unique role within the culture of the Maghreb. They are equal parts scholar, dream interpreter, religious hermit, and crafter of protective amulets. They tend to live in zawiyas (houses built near tombs) and act as caretakers for the shrine of the saint buried in a nearby tomb, venerating the saint through their study and prayer. First and foremost, they act as a source of religious authority, discussing interpretations of the Qur’an and law while mediating disputes amongst the Berber community living around them. Their amulets and tokens serve to protect and aid the people who wear them, warding off evil spirits, providing protection or guidance. Murabitin create them for those locals who ask for them using the Craft Amulet Ability (see Abilities). While a murabit asks no price for the amulet, he will often comment on how difﬁcult a particular amulet’s construction might be, and the person receiving the amulet often gifts''
''the Murabit with something equitable, such as trade goods or livestock. Occasionally, the Murabit may ask for a favor or the completion of a particular task, instead. Sometimes, a brotherhood, or tariqa (“Path”), will form around a Murabit and his lineage. Its members take the title of “talib,” or student. Talibs vow loyal obedience to the lineage and consider the murabitin to be stewards and inheritors of the divine grace of the founding murabit. Through the combined spiritual force of these faithful, some believe murabitin capable of healing illness and granting spiritual salvation to their followers. A few of the zawiyas stand near pre-Islamic tombs, and many of the murabitin at these places practice dream interpretation as a method of divination or communion with ancestor spirits, accessing the fragmentary memory of the community’s past. The skill is not limited to these holy men, though, and murabitin across the Maghreb claim the ability to successfully decipher the secrets held within dreams. The knowledge marks the murabitin as heirs of Berber traditions from antiquity, and contemporary protectors of ancestor shrines.''
''MYSTIC TRADITION: DIVINE MURABITIN''
''Favored Abilities*: Blessing, Ceremony, Craft Amulet, Dream Interpretation, Understanding. Required Virtues and Flaws: Murabit, Pious, Vow * (See Realms of Power: the Divine Revised Edition pages 47–54 for details regarding rhe Powers and Methods of Blessing and Understanding, and page 137 for details regarding Craft Amulet and Dream Interpretation) Murabitin are often found in a lineage, father to son, and taught as an apprentice. It is not unusual, however, for an appropriate candidate to be “adopted” and brought into the family for education. Some murabitin do not follow this practice, but simply surround themselves with talibs, or devoted students. The Order considers them to be hedge wizards and not truly worthy of membership. They seem to share a heritage with the Jewish tradition of Ba’al Shem, although neither group would ever admit to such a connection, despite the past existence of a substantial Jewish population amongst the Maghreb Berbers.''
''VIRTUES''
''Murabit Minor, Social Status Your character is a murabit, a scholar of the Divine, a wise man and worker of wonders. He is a member of a Murabit Tradition and treats Blessing, Ceremony, Craft Amulet, Dream Interpretation, and Understanding as favored Abilities, and may take Divine Lore and Theology at character creation.''
''Talib Minor, Social Status The character is a member of a murabit’s brotherhood, considered a student, guardian, and close follower of the murabit. Expected to serve and travel with the murabit, he should consider taking either the Oath of Fealty or Vow Flaw. The character may take either Academic or Martial Abilities at character creation.''
''Craft Amulets Minor, Supernatural Ability''
''Your character begins with Craft Amulets 1, a Supernatural Ability that represents his ability to make small objects imbued with supernatural effects and harness the power of words and symbols (see Abilities).''
''Dream Interpretation Major, Supernatural Ability Your character begins with Dream Interpretation 1, a Supernatural Ability that represents his ability to divine the truth behind prophetic dreams. The value of dream interpretation is well understood in Berber society and, given its long tradition within the culture, it is an accepted form of divination. This Ability may be used in place of Meditation as a Holy Method when activating Holy Powers (see Abilities).''
''ABILITIES''
''These Abilities are often used by murabitin.''
''Craft Amulets The murabit tradition uses the Craft Amulets Ability in combination with their Holy Methods and Powers to aid and protect individuals and places. All amulets are created with Touch range and the new Worn duration, which is equivalent to Sun. The target may be Individual, Room, Structure, or Boundary. In the case of targets other than Individual, the amulet is considered Worn while it is in contact with or buried beneath the target. The Boundary target would normally imply a ritual, but in the case of amulets this instead adds a further 20 to the effect level. The Worn duration lasts until either the amulet is broken or is removed from the target. Two types of amulet may be created, Minor and Major. Minor amulets are designed for a speciﬁc Individual target and take (12 – Craft Amulets to a minimum of 1) hours to create. These amulets require the crafter’s Craft Amulets Total to be at least double the target level of effect. They usually last a matter of days or weeks, determined by the quality of their construction (Dex+Craft Amulets + simple die roll = number of days amulet lasts). Major amulets take a season or more to create. Once the level of effect has''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Dream a Dream of Days Past==

''The characters discover the talents of the local murabit and seek him out to learn the location of a speciﬁc spirit, lost site, or other fragment of antiquity known to the restless dead ancestors the murabit can call. With knowledge stretching back to the days of the Roman Empire, the dreaming ghosts offer a rare, though occasionally unreliable, source of knowledge based on experiences from their lives. Could the murabit’s talent serve as a stepping stone to the Ancient Magic of Canaanite Necromancy (see Ancient Magic) or Insight into creating an initiation for the Mystery of Dream Magic (See The Mysteries Revised Edition)? How do the characters intend to convince the pious murabit to share his wisdom — can a magus become an adopted son after rescuing the scholar’s ﬁrstborn boy from a bargain with a sahir and an unsavory fate at the appetites of an insatiable slaver jinn?''

|}
''been determined, the craftsman must spend consecutive seasons working on the amulet. For each point by which the Craft Amulets Total exceeds the level of effect the crafter accumulates one point until the target level has been reached. The craftsman can work on only one Major Amulet in a season.''
''CRAFT MINOR AMULET TOTAL: Dexterity + Craft Amulets + Shape and Material Bonus + Aura Bonus''
''CRAFT MAJOR AMULET TOTAL: Dexterity + Craft Amulets + Holy Method + Holy Power + Shape and Material Bonus + Aura Bonus''
''If using the rules from City & Guild, amulets typically have 1 Damage Level, but non-perishable components may be reused. Amulets have a Penetration of 0 but they can contain Holy or Arcane Connections to a given target, in which case the base multiplier is treated as the base Penetration score, as well as sympathetic connections, which modify the base Penetration as normal. The effects of both Minor and Major Amulets can also have Penetration designed into the effect at a cost of one level for two points of Penetration. This is in addition to Penetration gained through Arcane and sympathetic connections, and is not modiﬁed by sympathetic connections. The Shape & Material bonus cannot exceed the murabit’s Craft Amulets score. Specialties: Speciﬁc Holy Methods or Powers, particular shapes or materials (Supernatural) Dream Interpretation Murabitin lore understands dreams to be one of the chief vehicles through which God and the angels bestow visions and prophecies upon humanity. The Dream Interpretation Ability has two uses. The ﬁrst is a form of Meditation, as per the Holy Method, used in combination with Holy Powers of Blessing and Understanding. In this case the character must engage in ritual prayer for an hour before spending a full night in restful sleep. Upon waking he must spend (6 – Dream Interpretation to a minimum of 1) hours contemplating the imagery revealed to him in his dream. At''
''the end of that time, the player rolls for the miraculous effect as normal.''
''EFFECT TOTAL: simple die + Intelligence + Dream Interpretation + (Blessing or Understanding) + Aura''
''The second use is a form of direct divination. In this case, the murabit is interpreting his own dreams or the dreams''
''of others to ﬁnd answers to posed questions. The dreamer must be prepared, as per the normal use of the Dream Interpretation Ability, and upon waking the murabit spends (6 – Dream Interpretation, to a minimum of 1) hours contemplating the imagery. He may then make an Intelligence + Dream Interpretation roll. Characters with the Premonitions Ability gain a bonus equal to their Premonitions score. The Ease Factor is the level of the equivalent Momentary non-ritual Intel''

==Legacy of the Philosopher Poets==

''Some characters may seek out the writings or relics of the Suﬁs, attempting to incorporate their insights into cult initiations, deciphering the Enigma or simply expanding upon their understanding of the Divine. Here are some of the Arabic-language titles they may ﬁnd:  Bidayat al Mouridin Ouns al Wahid Tahfat al Arib Diwan (collection of poems)''
''Tractatus Theology (Quality 9) Author: Abu Madyan Availability: Private libraries in the Maghreb and Al-Andalus. Sometimes found in the Levant. Description: This is a collection of books regarding Suﬁ insight and philosophy from Abu Madyan. Each title is a tractatus.  Kitab al-i’tibar (On Reﬂection) Kitab khawass al-huruf (Characteristics of Letters) Tawhid al-muqinin (The Certain Profession of the Oneness of God)''
''Tractatus Theology (Quality 10) Author: Ibn Masarrah Availability: Private libraries in the Maghreb and Al-Andalus. Rarely found in the Levant. Description: These are short works providing a better understanding of Ibn Massarrah’s thought. However, their concise nature often raises new questions. Several referenced manuscripts remain missing, making it nearly impossible to reconstruct his philosophical system, especially where he discusses the attributes of God. Each''
''title is a tractatus.  Incoherence of the Philosophers The Deliverer From Error The Revival of Religious Sciences The Jerusalem Tract''
''The Revival: Summa, Theology: Islam (Level 5, Quality 8) Others: Tractatus Theology (Quality 8) Author: al-Ghazali Availability: Private libraries in the Maghreb and Al-Andalus,and throughout the Eastern Muslim world. Description: The Incoherence is the result of al-Ghazali’s brush with skepticism, where he embraced the belief that all causal events and interactions were not matters of chance, but rather the immediate and present will of God. Deliverer is his autobiography. The Revival is an in depth look at his philosophy of Islam, and The Jerusalem Tract is an overview of Islam.''
''THE KHIRKA OF ABU MADYAN''
''Passed from master to student in the study of Suﬁsm as the symbol representing of attainment of master status, this simple cloak radiates a palpable feeling of calm and well-being. A patched, woolen garment of nondescript grey color, the Khirka of Abu Madyan has a Faith Score of 5, giving it 5 Faith Points and a Divine Might of 50. It has the Saint powers of Celestial Immunity, Grant Serenity, Resist Temptation, and The Incombustible Shroud. (See Realms of Power: Divine, page 88, for descriptions.)''
''lego Hermetic spell. Holding an Arcane Connection to a target allows the character to treat the Range as Touch, and the Boundary Target does not require a ritual. The usual rules for Penetration in ArM5, page 184 apply to this Ability. Most who possess the Dream Interpretation Ability have speciﬁc rituals that they believe help them achieve insight. Some fast before sleeping, some wear ritual clothes while they sleep, while others sleep in graveyards in order to gain the assistance of ghosts. Specialties: Any appropriate Holy Power, own dreams, the dreams of others, dreams had under speciﬁc circumstances (Supernatural)''

==Suﬁsm and the Maghreb==

''Suﬁs believe the Qur’an speaks directly to their hearts as daily life’s stories. Their relationship of the Divine is a personal one of all consuming love. Through''
''one’s outward actions one expresses one’s piety. However, there are some who have sought other Islamic paths through asceticism and spiritual quest. These individuals are known as Suﬁs, primarily due to the fact that they often wear simple garments of wool (Arabic: suf). As of the 12th and 13th century, some mystical Suﬁ brotherhood orders began to spread into the region, though truly, they are much more popular in the Levant. Nascent groups have begun to evolve in Marrakech and Fes. These Suﬁs, though, played an integral role in the cementing the place of Islam amongst the Berber population through the Maghreb. They inspired leaders and spread their philosophy. Although its roots are undoubtedly''
''earlier, Suﬁsm acknowledges two writers in the early 10th century as the effective founders: Mansur al-Hallaj and Junayd Baghdadi. Later writers worked to formalize the theories of Suﬁsm, including Abu Nasr al-Sarraj and Abu Hamid Muhammad al-Ghazali. Currently, the most active thinker is the mystical poet Ibn-Arabi of Damascus. Suﬁs believe their philosophy originated from the Qur’an and therefore remains compatible with mainstream Islamic thought, and is in no way contradictory to Islamic Law. They see it as necessary to the complete fulﬁllment of Islam. Recently, Suﬁs have begun to gather in groups known as tariqas, usually based within a convent or the tomb of a saint and led by a senior Suﬁ, known as a shaykh. Others might consider this a school, with a shaykh or murshid (guide) who acts as a leader or spiritual guide for the organization of muridin (s. murid, “desirous”), but most Suﬁs see one another as peers, each with his own insights to share. They acknowledge the transmission of knowledge and the recognition of a murid as a new shaykh with the passing of the khirqa. The khirqa is a cloak representing the Suﬁ chain of spirituality. Receipt of the cloak marks the new shaykh as a part of the silsilah, the chain of shaykhs stretching back to the Prophet Muhammad. Suﬁs believe this chain serves as the channel through which wisdom ﬂows from the source of spiritual revelation to the being of the shaykh. The ceremony of giving the khirqa occasionally occurs between peers, as one shaykh acknowledges the wisdom of another. Perceptions of Suﬁs have begun to shift, and while they are often considered heretical, many view them as paragons of a devout and pious lifestyle. Some authorities encourage Suﬁ groups through the construction of various buildings for their use, including zawiyas (homes at tombs of saints), khanqahs (convents), and ribats (hospices). These gathering places also allow authorities to maintain more effective monitoring of the tariqas. Suﬁs seek a closer union with God, through both personal piety and participation in group rituals. Exactly which group rituals are practiced varies according to each individual tariqa, but through them Suﬁs attempt to achieve mystical insights into God’s nature and the world around them. Many murabitin are Suﬁs, and the uninformed often conﬂate the two groups,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Fae vs Infernal==

''As presented, the Punic deities are Infernal, but for storyguides who would prefer a faerie variant, one could view the priests of Carthage as Faerie hedge wizards specializing in Faerie Bargaining (See Realms of Power: Faerie, page 131), but unlike the contemporary art, their faerie patrons could ignore the demands of a broken deal. Carthaginian bargaining always involved sacriﬁce, providing the fae with Vitality in exchange for favor. The ruling class offered children to their god, as part of their usual worship, and especially if they particularly needed something. They would make a vow which was basically “If X goes well for me, I will sacriﬁce my youngest child to Ba’al Ammon.” However, in the later years of the city’s rule, they would raise slave children as sacriﬁces, perhaps adopting them, thinking to fool their gods. However, unlike standard Faerie Bargaining, if the Carthaginian faeries ever discovered the ruse, then the fulﬁllment of the letter of the contract failed, and so the gods could withdraw their protection, beneﬁt, or service.''

==Echoes of the Destroyed==

''The complete destruction of Carthage meant that little of their culture survived, and only scattered and incomplete accounts remain.''
''Bibliotheca Historica, Book III (Latin) Summa, Area Lore: Ancient Carthage (Level 2, Quality 5) Author: Diodorus Siculus Availability: Private libraries in the Levant and Egypt. In Constantinople.''
''Diodorus explains how the Carthaginian nobles thought their loss at the hands of the Romans had resulted from the displeasure of their gods. Even as the legions broke the defenses, nobles sacriﬁced 300 high-born children in the ﬁres of Tanit and Ba’al Ammon.''
''De Superstitiones (Latin) Tractatus Area Lore: Ancient Carthage, Quality 5 Author: Plutarch Availability: Private libraries, Constantinople.''
''Plutarch discusses the acts of sacriﬁce in particular, mentioning how “the whole area before the sacriﬁcial statue was ﬁlled with a loud noise of ﬂutes and drums so that the cries of wailing should not reach the ears of the people.”''

|}
''but they are distinct traditions. Particular pious Suﬁs, known as zahids, are also said to be able to work miracles, known as karamas, which enable them to ﬂy, heal with a touch, and conjure food and clothing with a simple prayer. (See Realms of Power: Divine, page 116) Other Suﬁs have found that through this process of philosophical introspection and ascetic lifestyle, they begin to not only alter their own personal reality, but the most erudite amongst them seem capable of altering the reality of the world around them in small ways. They “ﬁnd” the resources they need, or events seem to occur in their favor, such that some might call them blessed. Suﬁs say they simply follow the will of God. Some of the more renowned Suﬁs of''
''the Maghreb include:''
''• Abu Madyan was a very popular Suﬁ mystic from Iberia who traveled and studied throughout the Maghreb. Many Almohads feared he might challenge their authority. He died in 1198, answering a summons to the court of the Caliph in Marrakesh. He was buried in Tlemcen, and is considered something like the city’s patron saint. • Ali Hirzihim was often considered by Abu Madyan as his spiritual leader. He fervently distributed of the works of al-Ghazali in the region and taught at the Qarawiyin University in Fes. He was taught by his uncle, who, in turn, was taught by al-Ghazali. He received his khirka from Ibn al-Arabi''
''• Al-Dakkak was from Sijilmasa and was a prominent Suﬁ in al-Andalus and the Maghreb in the late 12th century. He studied alongside Abu Madyan in Fes for some time, ﬁnally gifting Madyan with the khirka of a Suﬁ master. He is buried outside of Bab al-Gisa in Fes. • Al-Ghazali is considered one of the most inﬂuential Muslim philosophers. He was a Persian Suﬁ and wrote extensively, helping establish the systematic view of Suﬁsm and its integration into mainstream Islam. Some believe him to be the single most important Muslim after Mohammed. He died in 1111 in Tus. • Ibn al-Arabi was from Seville, in Iberia, and considered a great judge of Islamic law. He traveled throughout''

==Story Seeds==

''A lost civilization of demon worshippers could, perhaps, be a good source of stories.''
''A LOST KEY''
''Locals bring the magi a stele covered with both Greek and strange symbols. Called a “cippus,” the low pedestal was dedicated to Melkart, patron god of Tyre, as a votive offering. Studying the inscription for a season with a Dead Language: Punic score or a Dead Language: Classic Greek score of 4 or greater allows the researcher to treat the stele as a tractatus.''
''Cippus of Melqart (Classic Greek/Punic) Tractatus Dead Language: Punic, Quality 5''
''This provides a key to understanding the Phoenician language, as the inscriptions on the cippus is in both Phoenician and Greek. It also bears the True Name of Melkart, and a native Goetic infernalist wants to claim it for his own. A dangerous game begins as the infernalist hides amongst the visiting peasants, trying to circumvent any precautions the magi may have taken and steal the stone.''
''UNDISCOVERED HERITAGE''
''A magus discovers a cache of ancient Greek manuscripts attributed to the Cabieri, either in the libraries of Constantinople or pulled from ruins somewhere in the Theban Tribunal. The text seems to suggest a connection between the ancient Punic magics of Carthage, and the rites of Thoth-Hermes. It references several secret cultic locations in the mountains west of Carthage. Seekers, following the Thoth-Hermes link and investigating the sites, may ﬁnd the false faerie Ba’al Ammon lingering or easily called. When the creature appears, it offers the magi the chance to learn ancient magics and risk being unwittingly corrupted.''
''HEALTH AND LONG LIFE''
''Received as a gift, discovered in ruins, or acquired from someone in the bazaars of the Tell, the magi acquire one of the Punic priesthood’s life-extending amulets, providing a bonus to the bearer’s Aging Rolls. Is it an Arcane Connection to Ba’al Ammon, a relic of ancient Carthage, or a trap cleverly laid by Gifted sahirs of the Caliphate? Is the risk of wearing a potential trap worth the Aging beneﬁts? Or is disassembling the amulet for Insight worth a chance to discover a minor Breakthrough connected to longevity?''
''WAGES OF CARTHAGE''
''A Gifted sahir opposes the magi, and seems to possess a nearly unlimited supply of Vim vis. His servants, however, seem to shift over time. While initially Faerie jinn, later foes are Infernal jinn, and then full demons. The sahir has located Ba’al Ammon’s cache of vis infesta outside of Tunis and now uses it to send a constant stream of supernatural assassins to harry the magi when they depart the covenant. Once he is defeated, will his trove of tainted vis be recovered by the magi, and if so, what will they do with it? How can they prevent another sahir from doing the same thing?''
''TO RESURRECT THE BRAZEN TOPHET''
''While searching through the ruins of ancient Carthage, a magus discovers an enormous lump of melted bronze which seems to contain several pawns of vis. If excavated and reformed, it would function as it did previously, providing the magi with a Tophet of Sacriﬁce, capable of turning offerings into Vim vis. Such a prize might drive greedy magi into more and more depraved acts for the easily generated vis, or, if word of the tophet gets back to vis-poor tribunals or amoral, vis-hungry magi, the owners might ﬁnd themselves challenged on many fronts by challengers seeking the tophet for themselves.''
''the east before returning to Seville and later moving to live out his days in Fes. He was very concerned with the nature of the soul and the theory of knowledge. Ibn al-Arabi carefully examined the Suﬁ belief which stated knowledge can only be achieved through puriﬁcation of the soul combined with chaste living and the elimination of material desires. He died in Fes in 1143.''

==The Gods of Carthage==

''While demons still exist in all those places you might expect to ﬁnd them in Mythic Europe, and in such places as those described in the Great Desert, there are other Infernal legacies to be found in North Africa. Many of the more sinister jnun such as the lesser ‘afarta, ghul and shayatin are aligned to the Infernal Realm and European traders bring with them their own demons. However, one almost forgotten Infernal power lost to the rest of Mythic Europe hides to the south beyond the Mediterranean, the supposedly defeated gods of the Carthaginians.''

==Punic Worship==

''Records of the worship and theology of the Carthaginians comes from those outside sources that documented aspects of the Punic culture before its utter destruction in 164 BC. In fact, all surviving material on Carthage and its traditions was written by its enemies. The rest of the Mediterranean reviled the empire’s tradition of sacriﬁcing the “ﬁrst fruits” to their gods in exchange for favor and assistance, which included burning the ﬁrstborn children of prominent citizens in enormous bronze altars. Several peace treaties demanded that the Carthaginians cease the practice, but they did not. Born out of the city of Tyre and ancient before the Romans were a tribe on the Tiber, Punic worship claims a wide and surprising heritage.''
''PRIESTHOOD''
''The priests of Carthage drew their tradition from the Cabieri, a circle of ancient mystics and smiths, who kept a sanctuary on the island of Samothrace in the Aegean Sea. They ranked second only to the kings and queens, and acted as the direct intermediaries with the Punic gods. For a fee, they negotiated petitions with the deities, related demands back to the people, and ensured petitioners met their obligations. Extremely active in the education of the populace, they indoctrinated new generations at an early age with the tenets of their belief system. To be a priest in Carthage was to be at the very core of Punic life.''
''ORIGINS''
''The authority on Punic worship is Sanchuniathon, an author of great antiquity, whom Plutarch assesses as truthful and accurate in documenting history. Philo of Byblos translated Sanchuniathon’s whole work from the Phoenician language into Attic Greek, and published it. No known copies of Sanchuniathon’s text survive, but according to Philo, Sanchuniathon sought out the writings of a man known as Taautus, a member of the Cabieri, “whom the Egyptians called Thoyth, and the Alexandrians Thoth, translated by the Greeks into Hermes.” After mastering Taautus’ mysteries, he studied the secret writings of Punic priests in the Levant and merged the two into the core of the Carthaginian priesthood’s rites. In the following centuries, later priests shrouded his discoveries in myth and allegory, so that rival cultures like the Greeks or Romans would not steal Sanchuniathon’s inventions.''
''DOGMA''
''Punic worship had three primary tenets: celebration, sacriﬁce, and serpent worship. To honor and glorify their gods, they erected standing stones, or stelae (singular: stele), engraved with the symbols for their gods. Raising a stele dedicated to a particular god was one method for gaining the god’s favor, or to show gratitude for assistance provided by the god. Most stelae discov''
''ered at ancient Carthaginian sites bear the mark of Tanit, and she is the most invoked of the Punic gods, even thought to inﬂuence Ba’al Ammon. They also constructed pillars inscribed with Punic myths and stories, and remnants of such pillars might provide insight to Seekers attempting to recover lost magics. ASome may even have incorporated the True Names of worshipped beings. Sacriﬁce in Carthage involved burning the votive object in a great bronze statue of either Ba’al Ammon or Tanit. In doing so, the Carthaginian priests employed a now-lost method of Profane Sacriﬁce. A synthesis of the Infernalist methods of Sacriﬁce and Profaning the Holy (see Realms of Power: Infernal, pages 95, 96), this allowed the sacriﬁcial burn''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Right of the Victors==

''One of the last remaining texts on the religion and mythology of the people of Carthage comes from Eusebius’s Praeparatio Evangelica, which tells of the works of Sanchuniathon, priest of Ba’al Ammon and sorcerer of Berytus. He tells how he deciphered the Levantine writings, deciphered mystic inscriptions in the Punic temples, learned the truth regarding the apotheosis of Punic gods — a truth their own priesthood later concealed with allegories and myths. Eusebius’ intended to discredit pagan religion through the example of Sanchuniathon. He succeeded in creating the last literary map to the magic of the Punics, albeit it one clouded by the distance of time and the secondhand translation of his source, Phylos of Byblos.''
''Praeparatio Evangelica (Latin) Summa, Area Lore: Ancient Carthage (Level 2, Quality 5), Theology (Level 3, Quality 5) Author: Eusebius Availability: Private libraries in the Levant and Egypt. In Constantinople.''
''One copy is kept as a collection of papyrus scrolls on iron rods in a dark cedar box with brass ﬁttings. The rods are capped with brass bull’s heads. Written in a ﬁne, narrow hand in a Roman dialect of Latin.''

|}

==Ba’al Ammon, Lord of Carthage==

''Order: Prince of False Gods Infernal Might: 50 (Vi) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +5, Dex +5, Qik +4 Size: +0 Conﬁdence: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity to Flame and Heat; Improved Characteristics; Overconﬁdent Infernal Qualities: Vis Mastery (as the Magical Quality) Personality Traits: Greedy + 6, Proud +6, Ruthless Ambition +6, Subtle +5, Cunning +4, Deceptive +4, False God Demon +3 Reputation: Demon of Carthage 9, Ba’al Saturn 4, Baalzebub 3 Hierarchy: 9 Combat: Fist: Init +4, Attack +9, Defense +8, Damage +4 Great Sword: Init +6, Attack +21, Defense +17, Damage +13 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Bargain 10 (setting rates for assistance), Brawl 4 (dodge), Charm 9 (ﬁrst encounters), Dead Language: Punic 5 (giving orders), Folk Ken 9 (humans), Guile 10 (priests), Great Weapon 10 (great sword), Infernal Lore 8 (individual demons), Intrigue 9 (subtly spreading doctrine), Leadership 15 (humans), Philosophiae 8 (metaphysics), Teaching 9 (Infernal Lore) Powers: Form of Fancy, 0 point, Init 0, Corpus or Animal: After taking physical form, the demon can shapeshift into any human form, even ones with animal aspects such as curling ram horns, which it may dissolve at will. This is a natural manipulation of the physical form, and thus physical attacks are not stopped by Magic Resistance. Know the Places of Men, up to 10 points, Init 0, Intellego: Ba’al Ammon may create Intellego Corpus or Imagi''
''nem effects up to 10th magnitude at a cost of 1 point per magnitude. Master of Flame, up to 10 points, Init 0, Ignem: Ba’al Ammon may create Ignem effects up to 10th magnitude at a cost of 1 point per magnitude. Summon the Herd of Destruction, 12 points, Init –19, Mentem, Ritual: Summon a company of 10 ghostly war elephants (see later) that follow Ba’al Ammon’s commands for Moon Duration. He may delegate this command to another individual, but the elephants understand only Punic. This is a ritual power. (ReMe 15, +4 Arc, +3 Moon, +2 Group) Coagulation, 5 point, Init –1, Corpus: The demon can obtain a material form, which it may dissolve at will. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init 0, Mentem: The demon can appear in the dreams of a sleeping target (1 point) or make a target experience a waking dream (5 points). This was how Ba’al Ammon often communicated with worshippers. His Master’s Voice, variable points, Init +1, Vim: The demon can summon other demons or corrupt beasts to its current location. This costs 1 Might Point for every point of Infernal Might of the being summoned, so is used sparingly. The demon has no control over the demon he has summoned. Obsession, 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim: the demon can impose the Obsession Traits of Greed, Merciless Ambition, and Pride. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31-32) Possession, variable, Init +2, Mentem: To possess a human, the demon may expend any number of points from its Might Pool to create a Possession Might Pool. These points actually enter the possessed creature and are not regenerated by the demon until the Possession ends. The more Might invested in this power, the more the demon can do with its host, but the weaker the Penetration. If it uses all of its Might, the demon gives up a physical form and resides with in the victim. Separate portions may only communicate informa''
''tion learned since the division when within sight of each other, otherwise they are independent copies of the demon’s mind. These copies may use any of its Powers for which it has sufﬁcient Might points in its Possession Might Pool, but the points do not regenerate until the possession ends. The demon may grant its host Magic Resistance equal to the Possession Might; if it does so, then the host is excluded from wards against supernatural beings just as if it were the demon itself. In all other situations, the demon can “hide” within the host, and walk through such wards with impunity. If a demon attempts to force the victim to act contrary to his nature, or use any of the victim’s own supernatural powers, the demon must spend points from its Possession Might Pool. A Supernatural Power requires 1 point per magnitude, 1 Might Point per point of a Supernatural Ability, or Might Points equal to the Might Points expended by the victim. A questionable action requires the demon to exceed the victim’s Personality Trait on a stress die + Might Points spent. The storyguide may give a modiﬁer to the Personality Trait roll based on the nature of the command. Once the Possession Might Pool placed into a victim reaches 0, the possession ends. Note that a being can be possessed with as little as 1 Might Point. A demon can possess multiple victims simultaneously, and can direct each independently. Vim spells may be used on the victim to target this fraction of the demon, and must Penetrate the base demon’s Infernal Might normally, but drain the Possession Might Pool, not the Infernal Might of the demon. Shroud the Stench of the Pit, variable points, Init +3, Vim: Ba’al Ammon can conceal the Infernal nature of any other supernatural power or aura, making it appear to be Magical or Faerie instead. It may also be used to remove all stench of the supernatural, making things appear wholly mundane. This power can shield a creature or''
''ing of objects to effectively generate Vim vis infesta (See Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 18), which created a pawn of vis per +2 granted by the sacriﬁced object. For instance, an innocent human would generate 5 pawns of vis. This allowed the priests and their demon god to then enact potent rituals and effects. Finally, the Carthaginians venerated serpents as symbols of rejuvenation and immortality. Drawn from the mysteries of Taautus, they saw dragons and snakes as divine, able to shed their old skin and be reborn in a larger, more powerful form. Festivals, sexual rites, and sacriﬁces honored serpents as servants of the gods, symbols of fertility, and the embodiment of the rulers of the universe. Priests incorporated the snake into shrine symbolism and into mystic rites, bearing the shed skins of snakes in amulets which granted long life. Such an amulet discovered now might provide a +3 bonus to aging rolls, but grants the wearer the Tainted with Evil ﬂaw for as long as it is worn. Believers felt they could expect interventions on their behalf, the support and favor of their gods — a bargain the demons honored just enough to encourage greater and greater sins and bloodshed. Often, the acts demons performed were ones they might have done willingly, but they demanded a price from worshippers because they''
''could. While some Punic texts suggested ascension or apotheosis was possible for the greatest of priests and kings, no details regarding such a transformation have been discovered.''
''SACRED PLACES''
''Punic culture demanded that each new colony build a temple dedicated to Tanit and Ba’al Ammon so their gods could be petitioned. Temples contained shrines and included a nearby tophet. A great bronze representation of Ba’al Ammon or Tanit with up stretched arms, the tophet would be ﬁlled with a great ﬁre. Petitioners placed bound sacriﬁces on the sloped hands, allowing them to fall into the statue’s mouth, where they would burn. Priests collected the vis-rich ashes and buried them nearby in urns dedicated to Tanit. The demon then used these pits as vast sources of vis to aid in its tasks. Evidence of such a tophet lies buried in the ruins outside Tunis, a great mass of melted bronze destroyed in the razing of Carthage.''
''CARTHAGE IN 1220''
''Now known as Tunis, Carthage is a shadow of its former glory, but still one of''
''the grandest and richest cities in North Africa. The Punic and Roman sites have been abandoned and looted for cut stone, and little recognizable remains. Nearly 100,000 people live in sprawling, nearby Tunis, the provincial capital of the region for the Almohad Caliph, and its great harbor does brisk trade. Merchants from across the Mediterranean come to exchange goods for the gold and slaves brought out of the desert. In sagas which follow history, the governor of Tunisia seizes control of the city in 1228, declaring himself Emir and establishing the Hafsid dynasty. It is described further in Chapter 2: Coasts.''

==Punic Deities==

''The gods of Carthage came with the Phoenicians from the Levant out of deep antiquity. A collection of beings with Semitic origins and African inﬂuences, they ruled over Punic culture for a thousand years and then simply took up the Roman masks the legionnaires brought with the rule of Republic and Empire. While their conquerors forbid their more abhorrent practices, and killed or enslaved much of the populace, the Punic gods Tanit and Ba’al Ammon and their coterie did not disappear, they simply gained different servants.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ba’al Ammon, Lord of Carthage (Cont’d)==

''effect from the Sense Holiness/Unholiness ability. This Power costs Might Points equal to the original cost of the Power being concealed, or Might Points equal to the magnitude of the Infernal effect if it does not cost Might Points. This power lasts for as long as the Power it is masking. Wealth of Nations, 3 points, Init 0, Terram: The demon can summon riches. Each use of this Power can create wealth equivalent to up to 50 pounds of gold. This wealth can be of any form—gold, gems, rich tapestries, ivory, etc—but it always has intrinsic value, rather than being valuable because of its utility (a roomful of grain, for example). This wealth is not created, it is instead''
''summoned from somewhere else, chosen by the demon usually for the greatest corrupting effect. This might be a royal treasury on the other side of Europe or the purse of the man standing nearby. Weakness: Protected Group (People who have sacriﬁced to the Punic Gods that day) Vis: There are ten pawns of Vim vis in the demon’s curling horns. Ba’al Ammon carries 20 pawns of vis Infesta when spending extended time abroad. Appearance: Ba’al Ammon manifests as a handsome and well, but appropriately, dressed man or woman with curling ram’s horns on the side of his head and eyes like cinders. He always has a large, vicious sword''
''adorning his outﬁt. He shifts his form to the visage and gender the individual summoning him would ﬁnd most appropriate.''
''Ba’al Ammon delights in corrupting men, creating death and destruction, and driving societies into decline. His Vis Mastery quality means he can use vis in place of Might points, and he carries several rooks of vis with him when spending extended time manifested. The animal which manifests with him is always a snake; sometimes a small garter or viper, other times a larger one of indistinct variety.''

|}
''According to what texts survived the destruction of Carthage, the Punics believed that their gods originally existed as men, kings who ascended to godhood through ancestor worship. Through this apotheosis, their rulers became the embodiment of cosmic elements, joined in a transformative union with the forces of nature and the sun, moon, and stars. They then attended to the petitions of their people, negotiating through the priesthood. Unfortunately, it was a lie. Whatever the gods of Carthage may have began as, the being worshipped by their society was, in fact, a single demon of Hell impersonating the deities of the Punics. The arrangement perfectly suited the capricious nature of demons. The ever-renewed and often selﬁsh goals of the Carthaginian citizens meant the demon always had something sinful to occupy it, and the regular sacriﬁces meant quite a bit of collected power. Through sheer, depraved glee, it managed the corruption of Carthage quite well, preying upon the people’s desperate hope for good fortune. Carthaginians believed they possessed many gods, similar in some ways to the Hellenistic or Roman pantheon. Their foci ranged from Carthage itself to fertility to healing or justice or war. They included Ba’al Ammon, Tanit, Eshmun, Dagon, Sydyk, and Melkart. These may have begun as demons masquerading as gods, perhaps even faeries who played the role of gods, but in the end, as Carthage burned, its pantheon was completely composed by a lone servant of Hell. The lord of the Punic pantheon was Ba’al Ammon, and his symbol was the spiraling horns of the ram. Nominally considered the god of the moon, he was the patron god of Carthage. The Egyptians linked him to Amun, the transcendental god of the essential and hidden. The Greeks claimed he was Kronos, who fathered the Younger Titans which so intrigued the founder Tytalus, consumed the ﬁrst Olympians, and sacriﬁced his son, Iarbus, to secure victory in war. A potent necromancer and master of ﬂame, Ba’al Ammon survived the ages as the Roman god Ba’al Saturn, and eventually revealed himself as the demon Baalzebub to the Goetics in search of his ruthless power. As a Pu''
''nic god, he often answered prayers of the nobility to aid the Carthaginian armies in battle, summoning up ghostly elephants and soldiers to ﬁght while causing the ﬁery artillery of the living to burn with the pernicious hunger of the Infernal. The Queen of Blood and Fire, Tanit held many roles, and in some ways, she was more popular than Ba’al Ammon. Her shrines were more numerous, and many worshippers appealed to her roles as a consort and conﬁdant of Ba’al Ammon, petitioned her for aid a goddess of war, or sought her blessing as a virginal mother goddess, nurse, and symbol of fertility. Occasionally represented with a lion’s head, her symbol was a circle atop a triangle with a straight line crossing the point, not unlike an anhk. In fact, the Egyptians associated her with Nit, the goddess of war and hunting. The Greeks saw her as Juno Caelestis, the African Juno. Dagon ruled over farming and ﬁshing, a god dedicated to the bounty of the land. The Greeks called him Zeus Arotrios. He also guarded the underwater prison of seven titans cast into the sea as punishment. Carthage considered Eshmun a god of healing, and associated him with the Greek god Asclepius. The eighth son of Sydyk, he always carried both the staff of his ofﬁce and a snake coiled around his other arm. His brothers were the secretive Cabieri of Samothrace. Sydyk discovered the uses of salt and sat as the judge of the gods, interpreting when Ba’al Ammon was absent. He was notably harsh and unforgiving, preferring righteousness to mercy, and his punishments were always severe. Sanchuniathon records Sydyk’s father as Magos, a follower of Zoroaster who ascended as a foreign god. The Punic god Melkart was sometimes called the Tyrian Heracles, and considered the patron god of both Tyre and Leptis Magna. The emperor Septimius Severus even constructed a temple to Melkart in Rome. A legacy of Carthage’s origin as a colony of Tyre, Melkart remained as a god of death and rebirth, protector of places dedicated to him and guardian of his most devout worshippers. The general Hannibal was a noted follower of Melkart. His cult was also widespread in the Punic colonies of Iberia.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
