''Welcome to Mythic Africa! This continent, occupying a full quarter of our habitable zone, is mostly unexplored by Mythic Europeans — and, in fact, by most Mythic Africans as well. Sandwiched between the Great Desert to the south and the Mediterranean Sea to the north is a region just barely inhabitable by humans, or so it seems. Despite the hostile environment, some of the largest and furthest reaching dynasties known to the world have originated in Africa, and their descendants dwell here still. Herein are described the lands of Mythic Africa, as seen through the eyes of both Mythic Europeans and those who live here. This book can be used either for running stories where magi from Mythic Europe visit the mysterious continent across the sea, or as a setting for whole sagas with African characters. You will ﬁnd here details of the geography, customs, and legends from the Atlantic coast to the Siwa Oasis — the whole of Mythic Africa except for Egypt and Ethiopia. The lands of the Nile differ sufﬁciently from the rest of Africa to warrant separate treatment, and will be detailed in a future supplement for Ars Magica Fifth Edition.''

==The Shape of the World==

''The habitable zone in which Mythic Europe lies is a quarter of the sphere of the earth, divided by the meridian and the equator. It consists of three continents, and Africa is the one bounded by the Mediterranean sea to the north and''
''the River Nile to the east. The continent is named after the Roman province of Africa, a name preserved in the current Arab province of Ifriqiyeh. Its southern boundary is the Great Ocean that runs around the earth’s equator, and the western limit is the Atlantic Sea. The existence of the Great Ocean has been deduced from indisputable logic rather than directly observed, since it lies at the center of a belt of intense heat and stunning dryness called the torrid zone. The torrid zone is where the sun is closest to the earth, and it scorches the land directly around the equator. The northern limit of the torrid zone is a matter of debate, but most agree that it extends no further north than the Tropic of Cancer, and probably ceases well to the south of this limit. It is almost universally accepted by the Christian West and Arab scholars alike that Africa is limited to the northern side of the equator, that the equatorial ocean is unpassable, and that the torrid zone is uninhabitable. There have been expeditions into the fringes of the torrid zone both by land and by sea, and those who have returned have brought back stories of fabulous lands beyond the desert. Stories that might arise from entering the torrid zone are explored later in this book.''

==Themes==

''Mythic Africa has two dominant themes: wonder and hunger. To the natives, elements relating to either theme are so commonplace that they are rarely noticed or mentioned, but to outsiders these themes should stand''
''out. Storyguides introducing Mythic Africa into a saga may wish incorporate elements from one or both of these themes, particularly during the characters’ ﬁrst experiences on the continent.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Note for Modern Readers==

''Some might be surprised to see that this book refers to a land called Africa, but covers only a fraction of the continent that currently bears that name. However, in the thirteenth century this was Africa, not North Africa. It was generally accepted that Africa had a southern shore on the Great Ocean somewhere north of the equator, but this had never been witnessed because the proximity of the sun to the equator formed a torrid zone that is hostile to all life. The black-skinned inhabitants of the continent are mostly Ethiopians who live on the fringes of the torrid zone. The historical empires and kingdoms of sub-Saharan Africa are relegated to legend, since in Mythic Africa they exist within or beyond the torrid zone. However, the border of the torrid zone is ill-deﬁned and need not be at a constant latitude throughout its extent. At the option of the storyguide there may be regions beyond the Great Desert that can support human life, or else these lands could lie within regiones. Art & Academe page 28 has a more complete discussion of the shape of the world in Ars Magica Fifth Edition, but pertinent material has been extracted here.''

|}
''A Land of Wonder Africa is an exotic continent to Mythic Europeans. It is ﬁlled with outlandish beasts, strange spirits, and savage monsters. Further, it is the point of origin of one of Christendom’s biggest threats — the Moors of Al-Andalus in Iberia, an enemy that goes back half a millennium to the days of Charlemagne, originated in Mythic Africa. A European visiting the markets of Marrakesh will be overwhelmed by their strangeness; a welter of unusual smells, fabulous sights, and foreign sounds that he has never before encountered. Open plates are heaped high with fragrant spices, while at the next stall, impossibly-bright cloth ﬂutters in the wind. He might see a group of blemmyae — headless humans with faces on their chests — trading nuggets of raw gold, the bulging panniers of their camels guarded by savage looking dog-headed men, each ten feet tall and covered in black fur. Even at the edge of the desert, travelers experience heat like none they have experienced before save in a smith’s forge; the aridity consumes ﬂesh and saps willpower. It might seem that no''
''one could possibly live here, yet there are hidden oases and seasonal rivers that support pockets of hardy folk who seem to defy the savage dryness and heat. There are even some who dwell within the shifting dunes of the sand seas. An attack by diminutive raiders riding ostriches might be foiled by a group of Tuareg nomads who ride straight out of a desert mirage and disappear as quickly without saying a word. In the deep desert one’s sense of what is normal and what is strange is turned on its head. Distance and time seem to cease having true meaning; accidental travelers have reported visiting fabulous cities from ancient times, witnessing the congresses of demons, or speaking with angels.''

==A Land of Hunger==

''There is a spirit dwelling at the center of the Great Desert, a creature so mighty that it gives gods pause. It is the embodiment of the parching heat and the eroding winds, and seeks to consume everything, to suck all vitality out of the world, and leave nothing but dust''
''behind. The Romans called it the Fames Magna, the Berbers know it as Lazz, the Arabs Al-Ju’: all these names mean the same thing — The Great Hunger. Without opposition, the Great Hunger would parch the oases, stop the seasonal springs, cover the towns in sand, even grind down the mountains until there was nothing but dust from the equator to the Mediterranean Sea. But the Hunger has never been unopposed. In Ancient Egypt’s day, the spirit of the fertile black earth was invoked to guard against the sterile red spirit of the wastes. Carthage worshiped and obeyed its terrible gods in return for protection against the Great Hunger, and in those days its advance ceased — and even reversed. Some believe that the Romans were inﬂuenced by the Great Hunger when they destroyed Carthage and their gods, but were then forced to ﬁnd a power of appropriate strength to ward themselves against its all-consuming appetite. Today, the Dominion of God — ﬁrst Christian, now Muslim — forms a thin yet ﬁrm barrier to the ambitions of the Hunger. While it might seem foolhardy, some humans serve the interests of the Great''
''Hunger. The settuten (see Chapter 4: Realms) are a powerful group of nonHermetic magicians who have powers of dissolution and dissension. Their legendary progenitor is the Yemma-t n Dunnit, the First Mother of the World, who mythology suggests might be foremost amongst the Great Hunger’s servants.''

==Sagas in Mythic Africa==

''The wide expanse of Mythic Africa offers several reasons for magi to strike out to the frontier and for troupes to set a saga in this diverse and challenging environment. First, it presents a region of opportunity. Second, it offers a place of relative mundane and supernatural freedom. Third, Mythic Africa is a land of potential exploration, rife with lost ruins and magic places. From a metagame standpoint, Mythic Africa offers a great''
''opportunity for players looking for an alternate setting without going too far aﬁeld. Its exotic nature allows players to enjoy the roles of outsiders, taking a “vacation” from the familiar trappings of Mythic Europe. This can provide easy opportunities to explore themes, characters, and situations that would be illsuited to the Christian lands across the Mediterranean before returning home to their covenants.''

==Why Are There No Covenants in Mythic Africa?==

''Mythic Africa seems an intriguing possibility for young magi wishing to found a covenant. This leads them to wonder why the coast has not been settled before. There are several reasons why this may be the case, and one or more of these may be true in your saga.''
''THE CORDOVAN SAHIRS''
''At the beginning of the tenth century a schism developed in the Order of Solomon. The sahirs of Iberia and western Africa began to meet in Cordoba rather than making the arduous journey to Baghdad to meet with the rest of their order. The vast expanse of the desert was barrier enough, but it was also haunted by the settuten witches serving The Great Hunger who hated the sahir and who had the power to disrupt their magic. The Baghdad sahirs eventually repudiated the Cordovan sahirs and cast them from the Order of Solomon. In 925 most of the Cordovan sahirs joined the Order of Hermes (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 133). One of the conditions of their joining was that no covenants would be founded in Mythic Africa for three centuries. The reason for this stipulation is not entirely understood. The new Hermetic sahirs may have been hiding from the jinn they had betrayed in joining the Order, or else it may have been imposed by the Hermetic negotiators to prevent the Order of Hermes from inheriting the settuten as enemies. If it suits the saga, this restriction on Maghrebi covenants may not have been strictly followed, and there may have been Hermetic covenants of questionable legality established in the past. Either way, the agreement expires in 1225, and at least some magi are eager to explore the new lands and the wonders therein.''
''THE EARLY ORDER WAS ROMAN IN ANCESTRY, BUT NOT LOCATION''
''The early Order’s members were mostly descended from Roman magi, but the demographic heartland of the organization they founded was in Germany. It expanded outward not from Rome, but from the Black Forest. Young magi wanting to settle could, and in many tribunals still can, ﬁnd suitable sites without the effort of colonizing Africa.''
''CHRISTIAN EUROPE IS BIGGER THAN IT USED TO BE''
''Another reason that magi have not settled Mythic Africa is that, there used''
''to be intervening Muslim territories between the core Tribunals and the Maghreb. Had the oldest magi now alive in the Order wanted to colonize Muslim lands in their youth, their covenants would have been in Sicily and Castille. Pope Innocent III called a crusade against the Muslims in Sicily only 21 years ago. Even in 1220, Western Sicily is effectively under the control of a Muslim warlord. If your game’s history follows that of the real world, Frederick II of Sicily will begin a series of campaigns to take back his kingdom in 1221. Magi looking for Roman ruins outside the core of the Order could ﬁnd them within Europe.''
''THE PATTERN OF UPRISINGS''
''Mythic Africa suffers infrequent waves of destruction, as uncompromising groups of nomadic Muslims emerge from the desert and destroy the opulent lives of agrarian people. These groups sometimes found new ruling dynasties, but many smaller groups merely shatter the economy of the region, for example by deliberately wrecking irrigation works. These groups despise material possessions, so they cannot be bribed for safety. Like most jihadis they seem to be protected by the Divine. Few magi have seriously considered settling Mythic Africa during these periods.''
''THERE MAY BE FAILED SETTLEMENTS''
''This supplement doesn’t detail any failed covenants in Mythic Africa, but troupes desiring them should include them.''

==Virgin Territory==

''The opportunity to establish a covenant without political rivalry for resources will likely hold great appeal for magi aware of the kind of contention evident in a tribunal like the Rhine, or tired of the situation in a resource-poor tribunal like Normandy. In almost every situation, the competition for vis sites or mundane resources in Mythic Africa only arises from Moorish or Berber''
''settlements and local hedge wizards or sahir. Certainly, there are occasional interactions with rare Trianomae or Seekers, but these are the exception rather than the rule. European Magi may experience prejudice from indigenous populations, but enjoy very few limitations on their responses beyond what they can actually negotiate or claim by force. The remote nature of the area may force a covenant to either recruit manpower from like-minded, adventurous souls across Mythic Europe willing to risk their fate, or establish alliances with local lords and tribes. An inﬂux of foreigners could rouse animosity from communities fearing invasion and attack. However a covenant might be uncomfortable forming long-term agreements with native groups, concerned about betrayal from within or irreconcilable cultural differences. The absence of an established Hermetic Tribunal in Mythic Africa means a covenant worries less about immediate claims of “mundane interference,” should the magi decide to act violently. However, this lack of Hermetic society also means a covenant is isolated from news and interaction from the rest of the Order, and may face long delays when calling for help or resupply. Additionally, Hermetic wizards in Africa might ﬁnd charges levied against them in European Tribunals, should their actions have consequences which spill across the Mediterranean and impact other covenants. The lack of an organized magical society in the region brings similar concerns. The sahir and hedge wizards of Mythic Africa may have no larger, formal structure, but that does not mean individuals of signiﬁcant supernatural power do not exist amongst their number. Stories from the seventh and eighth centuries mention the powerful sorceress known as the Kahina, who led the Berber tribes against Bedouin invaders. Certainly, the unregulated nature of Mythic Africa seemingly gives hawkish Hermetic magi carte blanche to prosecute magical warfare against a culture they may view as nonbelievers or heretics. However, this freedom comes with the realization that any expeditionary covenant is alone in their personal crusade against the locals. They need to balance their apparent magical''
''superiority, evident through the protection of the Parma Magica and the power of Hermetic magic, against the vast resources of native practitioners. Any sustained campaign of conquest and violence may galvanize sahirs, hedge wizards, and other local traditions like murabitin, the Tuareg tribes, or the Wind Spirits to unite against the Hermetic threat. Members of the Order may be free to wage war without political limitations, but the lack of a tribunal does not mean an absence of consequences. Additionally, they may ﬁnd further Hermetic repercussions when other magi follow their footsteps and encounter the hostile natives left in the characters’ wake. However, those missing political limitations provide magi with the chance to establish a covenant without the machinations of tribunal. There is no vote necessary prior to building or claiming a location. There is no Code dictating a covenant must be within a certain proximity of a vis site, like the Normandy Tribunal. There is no requirement for a new covenant to acquire the approval of previously established covenants, like the Rhine Tribunal. There is no need to participate in a social contract, like the Theban Tribunal. For a group comprised of only Muslim magi, the region promises a place devoid of the sort of internecine conﬂict which might be experienced in the Iberian or Levant Tribunals. The lands of Mythic Africa are wild and, for all intents and purposes, completely unsettled by the Order of Hermes. This means magi may freely seek desirable places for establishing a covenant where Divine auras are patchy and Magic auras are stronger. The vast area combined with the sparse populations means the Divine doesn’t often encroach on or affect a magus’ laboratory and magi can more readily ﬁnd Magic sites suited to their needs. Should investigation reveal a desirable Magic aura occupied by a less potent native sorcerer, a genius loci, or faerie creature, nothing prevents the magi from forcibly evicting the current owner and claiming the site for themselves. This sort of “conquest and seizure,” combined with relative mundane isolation, is much harder to ﬁnd in the Tribunals of Mythic Europe, where the Order has been active, in some places, for over 400 years.''
''NO CHURCHES''
''Even more so than the Order of Hermes, the Latin Church has nearly no presence in the Maghreb, allowing magi to establish a covenant without interference from the Church. There are no real abbeys or monasteries competing for land and craftsmen. The bulk of Mythic Africa’s Christians live in Tunis and there is a very small enclave further south in the Muslim-founded city of Kairouan. However, the situation still requires interaction with the Muslim faith, a situation which might not be readily apparent to European magi. The educated Muslim community is less given to superstition, and the Murabit tradition of the region means magi ex''
''perience less suspicion toward ascetic wisemen than they might see in Europe. No matter how tolerant the natives’ attitudes, the call to prayer helps establish the reach of Divine auras, and mosques are ubiquitous throughout the area.''
''A LAND FOR EXILES''
''Mythic Africa’s physical isolation and political ambiguity also offer magi a second chance to establish a covenant despite declarations of Wizard’s War or Wizard’s March. In this instance, characters exiled from the Order of Hermes might hide from the wrath of their former sodales by taking advantage of the difﬁcult terrain, hostile territory, and''
''numerous supernatural creatures. While such an existence has its risks, the relative proximity to the rest of Europe may mean the magi can build a new life while still pursuing attempts to clear their name or maintaining some connection to the relatives and loved ones left behind. These same links to the past, however, may serve to lead Hoplites and opportunists to destroy anything built in this inhospitable paradise.''

==Story Seeds==

''A number of initial story seeds might draw magi to Mythic Africa or engage them once they establish a covenant.''
''THE KAHINA’S LEGACY''
''The Kahina, or al-K?hinat, died ﬁghting with sword in hand against the Arab invasion in 703, at the age of 127. Her gift of foresight was no help, but it did ensure the survival of her line. Her Berber sons converted to Islam and led the Berber army into Iberia. Relics of her struggle against the Arabs, such as her sword, her veil, or pieces of her jewelry, may lie hidden in the many caves of the Atlas mountains, secreted away by loyalists afterward in order to prevent their capture by conquering armies. Any magus able to present such heirlooms to the locals, while claiming descent from the Kahina, would certainly face less opposition and might even be able to unite the more fractious Berber tribes. Is it possible her secrets hold the key to even more ancient magics from the region?''
''MUTING THE MUEZZIN''
''The power of the Divine often spreads as far as the prayers of the devout may be heard, and for a covenant near a settlement, the muezzin’s call could quickly dampen an otherwise strong Magic aura.''
''A clever covenant might ﬁnd a way to lay an enchantment or place a sufﬁciently powerful item which limits the muezzin’s song, keeping it audible only within the boundaries of the oasis and protecting their aura. Creating an item capable of affecting such a large area, then sneaking inside the Divine aura to appropriately place such an item so that it remains hidden but functional is no small endeavor. Additionally, if the Divine aura retreats, what will be left in its wake? Will the magi trade the difﬁculty of working under the shadow of the Divine for the troubles of an encroaching Infernal power, eager to exploit the new vacuum?''
''SEIZING THE SAHIR’S BOUNTY''
''There are few priests arriving from Europe to minister to a Christian population, beyond what the magi bring with them, until 1219, when St. Francis of Assisi dispatched a number of his order to proselytyie across the coast. In the ﬁrst weeks of 1220, Yusef II, Caliph of Morocco acted on the advice his sahir vizier, Abu Sa`id Uthman ibn Jam`i, and beheaded most of the friars. The group had befriended Princess Sancha of Alenquer when they passed through Portugal on their way to Morocco. In a vision she experienced while praying, the Princess saw the death of the missionaries. She''
''has offered a reward for the return of the Franciscans’ remains and suggested that anyone who brings proof of ibn Jam’i’s death might ﬁnd a great reward.''
''HUNTING THE HUNTED''
''The magi may arrive in the Maghreb while chasing the target of a Wizard’s March or a Wizard’s War, perhaps even a peer who has soured potential relations with the natives. After crushing the target’s defenses and dispatching any resistance, a group of magi may realize the beneﬁts of such a pre-established covenant location. However, they ﬁnd claiming the holding in the wilderness is more complicated than just moving in, as they discover that the local tribes, the genius loci, and the jinn all had agreements or grudges with the ostracized magus. With those agreements gone or the magi presumed to be the former occupant’s successors, what began as a rich source of loot and freedom could become a battle for survival.''
''WAGING WAR''
''The covenant’s activities threaten to create a nascent Order of Atlas, one bent on opposing the Order of Hermes. Trianoma magi come to dissuade the covenant with diplomatic entreaty. Hoplites actively but indirectly oppose them, attempting to''

==Between Sand & Sea The Spirit of Exploration==

''Finally, Mythic Africa is a land of exploration, presenting chances to claim both magical and mundane resources. The lost secrets of Antiquity lie relatively untouched in the wilderness and buried beneath the sands. Many places require but modest efforts to recover the artifacts of the Egyptians, Phoenician, Greek, Roman, Berber tribes, and ancient Garmantians. But unquiet spirits, magical creatures and meddling faeries mean pulling these fragments from the dust may prove to be the easy part. While the ruins and hidden places of Mythic Africa preserve''
''fragments of the past, the ports and souks offer ample opportunity to establish trade or communications as the Genoese maintain a bustling and jealously guarded exchange with ports on both sides of the Pillars of Hercules.''

==Logistical Difﬁculties==

''Any covenant establishing itself in Mythic Europe may face a variety of problems related to its remoteness from the heartlands of the Order. Magi are required to be members of one (and only one) tribunal. As it is so far outside traditional tribunal boundaries, a tribunal''
''might refuse to recognize the magi of an African covenant as members. Houses Mercere and Guernicus might oppose such a covenant, since their members would be required to travel periodically a great distance outside the bounds of the tribunal. An African covenant is equally likely to ﬁnd itself in the middle of a power struggle between two (or more) tribunals that wish to extend their borders to cover the new territory. These alternatives are not exclusive the characters may have difﬁculty gaining acceptance, but once they do, everyone wants to make a claim on them. If accepted as part of a tribunal (or perhaps as a requirement for that ac''

==Story Seeds (Cont’d)==

''destroy their resources. House Flambeau remains divided, as some see this as an action opening a welcome second front to the Reconquista, while others want to keep the enemy disorganized. Will Castra Solis support or hinder the covenant? Throughout it all, the native sorcerers and hedge wizards gather their forces for a confrontation which will reshape the Maghreb.''
''LOST SODALES''
''The magi don’t arrive on a mission of exploration, but tasked to discover the fate of a previous expeditionary covenant sent by the tribunal with the collected resources of several senior covenants and an important mission. What will they ﬁnd when they arrive at the expected location? Were the magi there overwhelmed by Tuareg tribesmen? Were their water sources fouled by the sandstorms of vindictive Wind spirits? Did a pack of bouda betray them from within? Or were they seduced by Infernal powers and convinced to abandon their task? Are survivors recovering in the depths of the Great Desert, or hiding in plain sight on the streets of Marrakesh? What happened to the ﬁrst covenant’s assigned task? Discovering the fate of not only the magi, but the invested devices, texts, and stores might take the newcomers from Rabat to Taghaza to Bilma to the ruins of Cyrene and still leave them with questions.''
''THE LONELY LIGHTHOUSE''
''The half-buried city of Leptis Magna is the home of an elder Verditius and dedicated Hermetic Architect and its lighthouse is his sanctum. In exchange for his services, the characters’ senior covenant members have struck a deal. The magi will travel to Cyrenaica and labor in Leptis Magna for ﬁve years, clearing the sands and repairing the Verditius’ covenant grounds while the Architect enchants their home in Mythic Europe. The Verditius has left a list of tasks and rules for his guests, and violating the contract might have tangled consequences. Will the characters quickly work to complete their end of the bargain, freeing them to explore Mythic Africa seemingly without concern, or will they leave the work for later? How will the region’s residents respond to their new neighbors? Will the former occupant’s reputation be protection from harassment, or did the cantankerous old wizard make enemies with powers intent on ruining his handiwork?''
''MYSTERIOUS SOURCES''
''The magi all belong to a Mystery Cult, like the Neo-Mercurians or Mithraists. Their mystagogue sends them as a chartered covenant to seek out relics of their cult or lost places of worship amongst the Roman ruins. In order''
''to progress deeper into the mysteries of their cult, they must establish a base of operations and not only thrive, but succeed in their hunt. What happens when a rival cult, such as the Disciples of the Worm, establishes a similar covenant, intent on plundering the characters’ secrets? How can they prove the theft of lost rites, and will the rivalry blossom into full-ﬂedged hostilities in lost ruins with few witnesses?''
''SEEKERS OF LOST MAGICS''
''The magi are members of the Seekers, looking for the lost magics of Carthage and the powers which allowed that far-ﬂung empire to oppose Rome through three conﬂicts over the course of almost 120 years. While the Republic eventually triumphed, there must be fragments and relics of those Punic traditions hidden in the ruins and wilds of the Maghreb, concealed by those who survived the legions’ conquest. The covenant arrives with the dedicated mission to unbury the long-dead corpse of the Carthaginan Empire and acquire its secrets for House Bonisagus and the Order. While they search, the magi might also discover the remnants of the Garamantians or delve into the local hedge traditions of the Berbers, looking for new magics worthy of incorporation into Hermetic Theory, like those of the settuten.''
''ceptance), the characters may have to make provisions for redcaps to visit them. This might require the characters to create an enchantment which allows the swift passage of redcaps to Mythic Africa, or perhaps even the funding of a Mercere’s Portal.''

==Hermetic Presence==

''In some sagas, troupes may prefer a light or nearly non-existent Hermetic presence in coastal Mythic Africa. This allows the troupe to focus on stories of exploration and colonization, rather than founding supply bases and maintaining contact with the order. This is particularly useful if the troupe’s stories are set deep in the desert. In this supplement, points of Hermetic settlement have been left undeﬁned. Troupes should apply any option which suits their stories to any of the cities in Mythic Africa, but future sourcebooks assume Mythic Africa has no Hermetic presence.''
''MERCERE TRADING HOUSE''
''Some sections of House Mercere are deeply involved in trade. When using this hook, the Mercere have warehouse and wharf space in one of the coastal cities. This option suits troupes who want their characters to have a ready source of local servants, guides who can explain local society, and aid to found a settlement on the trade routes. House Mercere tries not to use ﬂashy magic in Mythic Africa, so allied player characters will, similarly, be expected to maintain decorum.''
''JERBITON SCHOLARS''
''The madrasas of Mythic Africa beckon scholars from Europe, although few travel to them. Every so often, a young Jerbiton magus travels to Mythic Africa to attend one of these colleges or as part of an Itinerarium. A loose network of earlier Hermetic immigrants welcomes them. At times this network contains one magus per city; at others the magi form a small group, like a covenant, with the older magi acting as mentors for their younger sodales. This option''
''suits troupes interested in the political disintegation of Mythic Africa, and the efforts to defend the treasures of the region from looming civil war.''
''CRIAMON MYSTICS''
''House Criamon has had Suﬁ members for centuries. They form a small group considered less secretive than simply inscrutable to outsiders. They welcome visitors, particularly those willing to learn Enigmatic Wisdom. This option suits troupes who wish to visit a series of Suﬁ philosopher mystics and Murabits, complete their Ordeals, and learn their Mysteries or incorporate them into their own.''
''TREMERE SPIES''
''A few decades ago, the Primus of House Tremere asked House Mercere to scour Mythic Africa for Gifted children. This has created a generational cadre of magi who look Mythic African, and they have been dispatched to Mythic Africa to assess the region for threats or opportunities. This option suits troupes wanting to meddle with Mythic Africa society, surreptitiously control regions, and ferret out sources of power and opposition in the Maghreb.''

==The Land==

''Medieval Arabic sources refer to Africa (excluding Egypt) as Bilad alBarbar (“the land of the Berbers”) or else al-Maghrib (“The West”). Mythic Europeans still use Roman names on their maps, with an ill-deﬁned Gaetula for the center of the continent, and Ethiopia beyond that. Mythic Africa can be divided into four broad geographic areas. For clarity we have labeled these regions using the names used on medieval maps in order keep them distinct from the people or confederations that currently occupy the area. Three regions hug the coast of the Atlantic and Mediterranean Seas (from west to east):''
''Mauritania, Numidia, and Tripolitania–Cyrenaica. The Arabs call these regions the Farthest, Middle, and Nearest West respectively. They are the most settled parts of Africa, where temperate winds from the sea allow Mediterranean forests, woodlands and shrubs to ﬂourish. The fourth geographic area is the Great Desert, an exceptionally hot and arid region in the interior of the African continent, extending into the torrid zone. This section provides a brief geographic overview, which will be expanded in the following chapters.''

==Mauritania==

''Mauritania, or Al-Maghrib al Aqsa (“The Farthest West”) to the Arabs, occupies the Atlantic coast of Africa. The region is mostly a coastal desert; what plants grow here gain most of their moisture from the frequent fogs that roll in from the cooler sea. The cooling inﬂuence of the sea allow human habitation to extend south of the Tropic of Cancer. The Adrar highlands separate Mauritania from the blasting heat of the desert further west.''

==Numidia==

''The region of Numidia boasts the highest population density of all of Africa, excepting Egypt. Called AlMaghrib al Awsat (“The Middle West”) in Arabic, this region has a coastal Mediterranean climate thanks to the sheltering inﬂuence of the Atlas Mountains. Rather than a single range, the Atlas Mountains are actually a series of ranges; between the Tell Atlas on the coast and the barrier ranges of the Anti-Atlas, High Atlas, and Saharan Atlas further south are crop lands and pasture. The key populated areas are: Er Rif, a mountainous area between the Middle Atlas and the Straits of Gibraltar; the Tell, a high altitude plateau south of the Tell Atlas; and Ifriqiyeh in the Aures Mountains.''

==Between Sand & Sea Cyrenaica and Tripolitania==

''Cyrenaica is the region immediately east of Egypt (thus the Arabic name of al-Maghrib al Adna, “The Nearest West”), whereas Tripolitania is the name given to the coastal region around the Gulf of Sidra to the north of the Libyan Desert. This is a poorly populated area, occupied mostly by the nomadic Banu Sulaym.''

==The Great Desert==

''The Great Desert (in Arabic As-Sahra al-Kubra, whence “Sahara”) is a vast area of largely uninhabited land that occupies the majority of the known land mass of Africa. Labeled “Gaetula” on medieval maps, most westerners are under the mistaken impression that it is just a single wasteland of sand. This is only really true of the ergs, or sand seas, broad ﬂat areas of windswept sand that forms into dunes. There are several ergs of vast size in the Great Desert, notably the Grand Erg south of the Atlas Mountains; the Great Sand Sea, the Ubari and Murzuq Deserts of Libya; and the Erg Chech and El Djouf east of Mauritania. Ergs generally have no human inhabitants. Outside of the ergs, most of the Great Desert consists of stony desert called regs, and vast rock plateaus called hamada. Salt ﬂats dot areas in the shelter of mountains. The Tademaït Plateau south of the Grand Erg is a hamada of unparalleled ﬂatness. It is truly empty, free from hills, villages, and animals. There aren’t even any stones or pebbles, just an expanse of dust. The occasional bush manages to eke out a living, and these give welcome relief to eyes tired of seeing nothing but ground and sky. Tademaït deservedly has the reputation for being a haunt of jnun, and men have been driven mad by the emptiness. The Tademaït Plateau ﬁnally comes to an end at mountains to the south west, and Tuat to the south east. Tuat contains a string of small oases strung out along the eastern edge of a dry valley called a wadi, which forms an important route for travelers seeking to cross the desert.''
''MOUNTAIN RANGES''
''A number of mountain ranges can be found in the Great Desert; the most prominent are the Ahaggar Mountains (Berber: idurar n Ahaggar) at the very center of the desert. Forming the northeast border of the Ahaggar Mountains is the Tassili n Ajjer (Berber, meaning “Plateau of the Rivers”), a panoramic region of “rock forests” made of eroded sandstone. South of the Ahaggar is the Adagh in the east and the triangular massif of the Aïr Mountains in the west.''
''LIBYAN DESERT''
''The Libyan Desert is on the southern and eastern border of Cyrenaica. The Great Sand Sea occupies much of the desert, with the Ubari and Murzuq ergs forming the southwestern region. The Al-Haruj al-Aswad is a plateau of black rock rising out from the sand of the Murzuq Desert crowned by volcanic craters. Beyond the Great Sand Sea, on the border of the torrid zone, are the Tibesti Mountains. These are the highest mountains of the Great Desert; the tallest peak is Emi Koussi at over eleven thousand feet. Their name means “the Mountains of Hunger” in the local dialect.''
''TANEZROUFT''
''Tanezrouft (Berber: “Land of Thirst”) is the most desolate part of the Great Desert. It lies to the west of the Ahaggar Mountains, south of Tuat. There are no oases in Tanezrouft at all, making it exceptionally dangerous to travelers, giving them a taste of what the torrid zone is like. Tanezrouft is a region of dark sandstone hills riddled with steep canyon walls rising 250 to 500 paces in between dune ﬁelds. The blasting wind has scoured out geometric patterns from the sandstone, making hollows in the shape of perfect concentric ellipses or circles.''

==The Torrid Zone and Beyond==

''The torrid zone has an ill-deﬁned border within the Great Desert. Some scholars talk of the torrid zone as a “ring of ﬁre,” as if it were a precise geographic border; if this is the case then it occurs further south than most travelers can reach. Throughout most of its length the torrid zone exists as an intensiﬁcation of the heat and aridity of the desert. Deprivation rolls for thirst (see Chapter 3, The Great Desert, “Hazards of the Desert”) increase to a two-hourly interval, and the sunlight on bare skin inﬂicts +5 non-combat damage over the same period. There are no known''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==What if I Don’t Want Characters to Cross the Torrid Zone?==

''Some storyguides might want the torrid zone to be an impermeable barrier that keeps the characters on the right side of the equator, and this can be an edict enforced by the power of the Divine. This is something that should be discussed with the players so that they know the bounds of the world in the saga; however, it needn’t stiﬂe the curiosity of the characters. As characters enter the torrid zone, a magus might expect to be able to ameliorate or negate the effects of heatstroke and sunburn, but could ﬁnd himself unable to do so in the torrid zone. If the damaging heat and light derive from the proximity of the sun, they are products of the superlunar world, and therefore beyond the reach of Hermetic magic. Insights into research concerning the Limit of the Lunar Sphere could be productive in the torrid zone. As the characters penetrate deeper, the heat becomes more and more intense, and eventually overcomes even the strongest of defenses. Magic used to overcome the effects of the Divine edict fails, perhaps spectacularly. Furthermore, the torrid zone could be patrolled by angels who turn away any who attempt to cross.''

|}
''sources of water within the torrid zone; characters must bring with them whatever they want to drink. The torrid zone is inhospitable in the extreme, but it is not necessarily homogeneous. There could be regions which can sustain life and give some surcease from the heat, and those creatures who live in the desert are likely to know where they are. These areas may lie within Magic or Faerie auras or regiones, and may be connected to the regio network of the Great Desert. According to medieval maps, Aethiopia (or Ethiopia) lies to the south of the Great Desert; Aethiopia Orientalis is located to the south of Egypt, and Aethiopia Occidentalis is south of Mauritania. Aethiopia borders on the equatorial ocean. Whether this Aethiopia is the same as the torrid zone, or whether it is a separate land, is a matter for the saga to decide. Some other ideas of what might lie within the torrid zone include:''
''• A city built by refugees from Rome’s sack of Carthage, now ruled by a college of priestesses who masterminded the escape; • The Empire of Prester John: a land of tranquility and prosperity ruled by a Christian king; • Vast grasslands and dark jungles where tribes of nomadic pastoralists herd cattle and antelope in service of a race of sphinxes; • A river of gemstones and vis that ﬂows through a maze of black ravines capable of trapping the ghost of any who die there; • Aithiopia Occidentalis may be the true home of the Sudanese.''
''Logic dictates that there is another habitable zone on the other side of the equator, a twin to our own on this side of the meridian, but that it is forever unreachable due to the Great Ocean. Some have theorized that this might be the physical location of the Magic Realm.''

==History==

''Mythic Africa’s history stretches back far into antiquity, when it was the home of giants and non-human races. In historical records, Mythic Africa rose to prominence in the days of Carthage.''

==Antaios and Tinjis==

''In the time of legends, the giant Antaios (Antaeus to the Romans, Änti to the Berbers) used to dwell within Libya’s desert. The giant was gradually building a temple to his father Poseidon out of the skulls of those he defeated in a wrestling match. He drew his might from his mother, the earth itself, and had her limitless strength. Herakles happened upon Antaios while on his way to his eleventh labor, the Apples of the Hesperides. He held the giant aloft during their match, severing him from the earth and leaving him as weak as a mortal. Herakles then crushed the giant’s ribcage. Herakles took Antaios’s wife Tinjis to bed, and fathered on her Sufax, who is the mythic ancestor of the Berber people. Sufax built the city of Tangier, which he named after his mother, and from here took over Antaios’s role as guardian of the country of the Berbers.''

==Carthage and the Romans==

''The Phoenician princess Dido founded the city of Carthage in 814 BC. At the height of the city’s power it controlled a mighty trading empire that stretched from the Gulf of Sidra to the Atlantic Sea, and had colonies in Spain, Sicily, Sardinia, and Corsica. Meanwhile, Greek settlers controlled the eastern Maghreb, along the coast of Cyrenaica and Tripolitania, and built on the strength of Egypt following its conquest by Alexander the Great. Several Berber kingdoms emerged at this time and developed trading partnerships with Carthage. The greatest of these were''
''Numidia and Mauritania. During the second Punic War, two Numidian kings took opposing sides: Suphax of the western Masaesyli sided with Rome, and Gala of the eastern Massylii tribe sided with Carthage. Gala’s successor Massinissa sided with Rome, judging that they were winning; and Suphax allied with Hasdrubal, Carthaginian general and brother of Hannibal. Carthage was eventually destroyed by the Romans in 146 BC, and while the city itself was destroyed and its ﬁelds salted, the Roman empire claimed its territory for itself, creating the Province of Africa. Massinissa was given all of Numidia, surrounding Carthage and extending to the south east as far as Cyrenaica. By 112 BC, Massinissa’s grandson Jugurtha was at war with Rome. Failing to gain a decisive victory, the Romans forged links with neighboring Mauritania, with whose help Jugurtha was captured in 104 BC. Western Numidia was added to Mauritania; the remainder was governed by local princes. In the ﬁrst century AD Emperor Claudius divided Mauritania into two provinces, Mauritania Caesariensis and Mauritania Tingitana. The Roman provinces in northern Africa were very prosperous and its inhabitants became Romanized, acquiring citizenship and speaking Latin. Christianity spread quickly through the Roman Mauri, producing several important theologians including Tertullian, Cyprian, and Augustine. However, as the power of Rome faded in the fourth century, the northern African provinces became susceptible to heresies such as Arianism, Pelagianism, Donatism, and Montanism. The Berber tribes of the interior continued with their old way of life untouched by Roman influence beyond providing tribute and auxiliary troops for the great Roman army.''

==Vandals and Byzantines==

''In 422 the Vandals raided Mauritania Tingitana. Sensing trouble, Rome’s Comes Africae (military governor of Africa) invited the Vandals under Gaiseric into northern Africa with the intent to conﬁne them there, but they rejected any attempt to control them. These provinces were lost''
''to the empire until the province of Africa was reconquered by the Byzantine general Belisarius in 522. The western territory was lost to the Mauri, and never brought under Byzantine control. The Maghreb was too vast to be controlled from Constantinople; the empire was already weak thanks to wars with Persia. The Byzantines concentrated their efforts in Mythic Africa on the coastal towns, and used the rivalries between the local chiefs to prevent a general insurrection. As in the time of the Romans, the interior remained untouched by Byzantine inﬂuence; the dominant tribes of the Luwata (in the east), Sanhaja (in the west and center), and Zenata (in the south and south-west) controlled most of Mythic Africa.''

==The Arab Invasion and the Berber Uprising==

''When the ﬁrst incursions from Umayyad Egypt extended into Cyrenaica in 642, the Byzantines bribed them to leave. They returned in 670 led by''
''‘Uqbah ibn Naﬁ, who founded the city of al-Qayrawan as his base of operations. From Ifriqiyeh (the Roman Province of Africa), ‘Uqbah extended Arab rule over the whole of the Maghreb. In 683 he was slain by a Berber tribal chief named Kusayla, who vigorously opposed the Arab invasion. Under Kusayla, and later the Kahina (see Insert), the Berbers held out against the Arabs for twenty years. Umayyad wizards brought in to oppose native sorcerers found their spirits abandoned them when faced by Berber magic. The defeat of the Berbers came at their own hand: the Arab generals seduced certain Berber tribes with promises of rich rewards and choice territory. These new converts to Islam swelled the ranks of the Arab armies sufﬁciently to ﬁnally defeat the Berber resistance in 711. The Arabs did not stop there, and under General Tariq ibn Ziyad the mostly Berber army swept into southern Spain and conquered the Visigothic Kingdom of Hispania. By 720 the Umayyad wizards were ﬁghting a full-scale magical war in Africa against the rebellious jinn who has once served them; goaded by Berber''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Kahina==

''The Kahina (Arabic: al-Kahinat, “the seeress”) was a Berber chief who fought against the Arabs in the seventh century. Her given name was Dihya: she acquired her epithet from her opponents who ascribed her military success to her ability to foresee the future. After taking over the resistance in the 680s she led the Berbers in several very successful campaigns, driving out the Arabs from Ifriqiyeh and keeping them besieged in Cyrenaica for over ﬁve years while she laid the land to waste. This lost her the support of the oasis dwellers who relied on the land she despoiled, and who felt this demonstrated her bias toward the mountain and desert tribes. With her support wavering, the ﬁnal nail in her cofﬁn was her betrayal by her adopted son to the Arab leaders. She died in battle, sword in hand, at the age of 127 years old. Part of the Kahina’s power was attributed to an idol of Gurzil, the Berber god of war. Inherited from the days of Jugurtha, she had the idol carried into''
''every battle with her. Some believe that her adherence to Gurzil indicated that she was a settut, which would certainly explain her divinatory powers.''
''STORY SEED: THE GOLDEN IDOL OF GURZIL''
''Khalid ibn Yazid, the treacherous adoptive son of the Kahina stole Gurzil’s idol prior to her ﬁnal battle, perhaps explaining her defeat. His descendants were forced to leave the idol behind in alAndalus when they migrated to their new homeland, but they would dearly love to have it back. The characters learn of its current whereabouts from a disreputable merchant who also sells the information to a faction within the Banu Khalida. It is a race to see who can get their hands on it ﬁrst: if it is the Banu Khalida, then it could have dire consequences for the stability of the Almohads.''

|}
''magic the spirits managed to drive the wazirs back east. In Africa, the governors appointed by the Umayyad caliphs were quick to enforce Arab dominance over the Berbers through discrimination and slavery. Discontent was rife, and there was widespread revolt in 739. This uprising was united under Kharijite Islam; this sect had been ﬁghting Umayyad dominance in Egypt, and its doctrines promoted egalitarianism that appealed to the independent Berbers. The timing of the revolt was fortunate; combined with the death of the caliph and a revolt in Egypt, the Umayyad dynasty collapsed under the pressure.''

==The Dissident Dynasties==

''When the Abbasids — who succeeded the Umayyads — came to the Maghreb, they discovered three centers of political authority had appeared in the vacuum left, and all rejected the political authority of the caliph. Two were Kharijite sects, the Rustamids in Tahart and the Banu Midrar in Sijilmasa. The third dynasty, the Idrisids of Fes, were Sunni but had fought on the side of the Shi’ites against the Abbasids. The Rustamids arose from a small tribe called the Banu Ifran who were under al-Kahina’s leadership. The founder Abdul-Rustam ibn Rustam was of Persian descent, and he established a theocratic government where imams were elected to rule over a confederation of Ibadite Berber tribes. They gained a reputation for honesty and piety, and fostered support for astronomy, mathematics, and theology. However, they neglected to organize a reliable army, which proved their downfall against the Fatimids. The Banu Midrar made Sijilmasa a cosmopolitan city occupied by Sanhaja Berbers from the desert, Jews, Andalusians, Berbers, and Arabs, as well as exotic men with coal-black skin, dog-headed men, and other wonders. The kingdom was known for its religious tolerance and peacemaking; only toward the Idrisids in the north was hostility shown. The Idrisid Dynasty was an Arab dynasty that followed Sunni Islam, and therefore could get little support from''
''Berbers. It is thanks to the Idrisids that the northwest region of Africa remains mostly Arab to this day. The Idrisids failed to conquer a people called the Barghawata on the Atlantic coast despite numerous attacks. An early ruler of this Berber confederation had claimed prophecy for himself and composed a holy book in the Berber language. He then proceeded to convert his people to a Berber religion of his own making. The heresy was eventually stamped out by the Almoravids (see later). Faced with hostile neighbors, the caliph could exert only limited control over Africa. The embassy at Qayrawan established by Ibrahim ibn al-Aghlab effectively ruled independently as the Aghlabid dynasty. From 903 to 909, the Aghlabids suffered one military defeat after another against Abu ‘Abdulla, a Yemeni missionary of the Isma’ili sect of Islam. He had been sent by the Isma’ili leaders in Syria to raise an army against the Abassids, and had managed to convert the Kutuma tribe of Sanhaja Berbers to his cause. After conquering Kairouan and Ifriqiyeh, he marched on Tahart and crushed the peaceful Rustamids before moving on to the Banu Midrar stronghold of Sijilmasa. In 909 the leader of the Isma’ilis, ‘Ubaydalla Sa’id, came to the Maghreb and took over the new Fatimid Dynasty from his protege Abu ‘Abdulla. Within two years Abu ‘Abdulla and his family had been murdered by the ruthless leader. The Fatimids persuaded the native magicians, the settuten, of their Kutuma allies to apply their talents to the struggle against the Abassids. Many Arab sahirs were driven out of Africa by the settuten, who were capable of disrupting magical abilities, banishing spirits, and fomenting rebellion amongst the summoners’ jinn allies. Africa gained a reputation of being hostile to the Order of Solomon, a reputation it retains today. Despite Abassid attempts to destabilize the Fatimid regime, by 969 the Fatimids had conquered Egypt. The city of Cairo was founded to be the new Fatimid capital, and the administration of the empire left the Maghreb. A Berber, Buluggin ibn Ziri, was chosen by the Fatimids to be governor of the Maghreb, and his capable administration soon established the Berber Zirid family as the ruling dynasty of northern Mythic Africa.''
''THE BANI HILAL''
''Fatimid authority in Egypt was threatened by an anarchic community of Arab bedouin clans that had grown through migration from other nomad tribes and from peasants seeking to escape debt and servitude. Before he was really aware of it, the caliph was facing over a quarter of a million individuals and at least 50,000 young warriors at the disposal of the clan chiefs. At the advice of his ministers, Caliph al-Mustansir requested the help of these clans in quelling the rebellion of the Zirid emirs, offering them governor positions in the conquered territory for their efforts. In 1051 the great nomad horde migrated west under the name of the Bani Hilal (“the children of the crescent moon”). Some occupied Cyrenaica, but the majority continued west, overwhelming whatever resistance the Zirids could offer. They were not interested in investing the towns and cities; instead they took possession of the grazing grounds at the edge of the desert. The Zirids attempted to treat with them, but the great migration had no leader, and the Zirids had nothing that they wanted. Some individual chiefs reluctantly accepted the suzerainty and judgments of the Zirid rulers, but the Bani Hilal were impossible to tax, and the town-based culture of the interior was destroyed in one fatal stroke of the Fatimid caliph. With his authority disintegrating, the Zirid emir retreated from Qayrawan to Mahdia on the coast, leaving the interior to the Bani Hilal. Northern Mythic Africa reverted to a patchwork of local Berber lordships, interspersed with the militant presence of nomadic Arab clan chiefs. The society of the steppe and plateaus of the Atlas mountains became mostly Arabic-speaking pastoralism rather than Tamazight-speaking agriculture.''

==The Almoravids==

''The al-Murabitun movement, also known as the Almoravid Dynasty, arose from a zealot of the Sanhaja Berber called Abdallah ibn Yasin. He was from the Gazzula tribe, but his brand of orthodox Islam went down poorly amongst his own people. He was invited to preach to the Lamtuna tribe by their chieftain Yahya''
''ibn Umar, who desired to refound the Sanhaja union, and saw ibn Yasin’s mission to spread the Sacred Law as a useful tool to force the tribes to put aside their rivalries and unite under a single banner. Under the twin leadership of Ibn Yasin and Ibn Umar, the al-Murabitun movement began its inexorable conquest of the Maghreb in the early 1050s. A decisive victory in 1054 brought them the town of Sijilmasa, at the northern end of the desert trade route. By 1062 the Almoravid leader Yusuf ibn Tashﬁn had founded the city of Marrakesh, and from here he spread his inﬂuence over the entire Atlas range. In 1086, Yusuf ibn Tashﬁn was invited by the Muslim princes of al-Andalus in the Iberian Peninsula to assist them against the Christian king of León and Castile. Having seen the disunity of the Andalusian princes and the discontent of the people, he returned a few years later, and by 1094 he had conquered all Muslim territory in Iberia except Zaragoza, and added the united al-Andalus to the Almoravid empire. The successes of ibn Tashﬁn were not to persist long past his death. His son and successor Ali ibn Yusuf had not experienced the harsh life of his desertdwelling predecessors, but had grown up in the luxury of Marrakesh. His father’s empire was eroded by the Christian kings of Iberia and the Almohads in Africa (see later). Just four years after Ali ibn Yusuf’s death in 1143, Marrakesh was taken by the Almohads and the dynasty was at an end.''

==The Almohad Caliphate==

''Like the Almoravids, the Almohads (al-Muwahhidun, “the monotheists”) began as a religious movement. Ibn Turmart of the Masmuda confederation had studied in Grenada and Baghdad, where he developed his doctrine of the strict unity of God, denying the independent existence of separate attributes of the Deity. He returned to the Maghreb in 1117, and agitated against the Almoravids, gathering a following and erected a fortress at Tinmel in the High Atlas. For eight years he harried the road linking Marrakesh to Sijilmasa whilst making alliances with more tribes and growing in strength. Their ﬁrst proper battle was a failed siege of Marrakesh in 1130 which ended in disaster for the Almohads. Ibn Turmart died a few months later, but his death seemed to merely encourage his followers. Abd al-Mu’min took over the movement and was successful in driving out the Almoravids in a series of victories, and by 1147 had extended control of Africa as far as Egypt. Al-An''
''dalus was gradually conquered from the Almoravids between 1147 and 1173. The current Almohad caliph is Yusuf al-Mustansir, who was just ten years old when his father died in 1213, and the caliphate is still largely under the control of the regency council put in place then.''

==The People of Mythic Africa==

''Africa does not in general consist of feudal states with clear national boundaries. Rather, each village is a member of a tribe, and the tribal leaders form confederations that usually generate or support a ruling dynasty. Currently, most of northern Mythic Africa is part of the Almohad confederation, whose rulers are Berbers.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Marinids==

''The Ayt Mrin (Arabic Banu Marin) is a dynasty of Zenata Berbers. They have battled with the ruling Almohads since the very beginning, but in 1217 they won a decisive victory in the Rif, despite losing their leader Abd al-Haqq. His son Uthman ibn Abd has secured control of Er-Rif, and is looking to extend his inﬂuence over more of Africa. The Almohads have counterattacked in vain, and have even fortiﬁed their Iberian cities against a possible Marinid attack.''

|}

==Between Sand & Sea Berbers==

''The Berbers (or Imazighen, singular Amazigh) are the aboriginal people of Africa, and a Berber dynasty currently rules most of the Maghrib. They are divided into three tribal confederations: Zenata, Masmuda, and Sanhaja.''
''MASMUDA''
''The Masmuda are found mostly in the north west around Fes and Rabat, amongst the western Atlas Mountains and around Sijilmasa. Ibn Tumart, who founded the Almohad dynasty, was a Masmuda, and this confederation currently dominates the Almohad hierarchy. Masmuda subtribes include the Barghwata, Ghomara, Doukkala, and Hintata. Ifriqiyeh is currently ruled by Masmuda governors from the Hafsid''
''dynasty on behalf of the Almohads.''
''SANHAJA''
''The Sanhaja now occupies two geographically distinct regions. The eastern Sanhaja, which includes the Kutama tribe, are found in the eastern Maghreb on the Tademaït Plateau and Ahaggar Mountains. The western Sanhaja occupy Mauritania: the Gazzula and Lamta tribes in the Anti-Atlas range, the Massufa, Lamtuna and Banu Warith further south, and most southerly on the edge of the torrid zone is the Gudala. The Sanhaja Berbers formed the nuclei of the Almoravid, Zirid, and Hammadid dynasties.''
''ZENATA''
''The Zenata are distributed throughout the Tell and northern Numidia. There is great rivalry between the Zenata (who were allied with the Caliphate of Cordoba) and the Sanhaja, who were allies of the Fatimids. The Marinids of Er-Rif are a Zenata tribe, as are the Banu Zayan (or Abd al-Wadids) who are gathering power in Tlemcen.''

==Arabs==

''The Arabs arrived in Mythic Africa in two major waves: the Umayyids in the eighth century and the Banu Hilal in the eleventh. The invasion by the Umayyid Caliphate in the eighth century resulted in the building of cities and the subjugation of native Berbers, leading to a city-dwelling Arab upper class''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==African Languages==

''The following Living Languages, each with distinct regional dialects, are spoken in the Maghreb and northwestern Africa. Most characters should take the appropriate dialect as a specialty but Educated or well-travelled speakers will have tried hard to rid themselves of their dialect and may have standard specialties (see ArM5, page 66).''
''Arabic (Andalusi, Classical, Derija) Tamazight (Tariﬁt, Kabyle, Tashelhiyt, Zenaga, Tamahak, Siwi) Lingua Franca (Sabir) (Western, Eastern) Punic (Khalidan)''
''The most common Arabic dialect spoken throughout Mythic Africa and by those Arabized Berbers that have migrated across the straits is Derija (Maghrebi Arabic). Classical Arabic remains the language of secular scholarship, original poetry and the Qur’an but is rarely spoken in common day conversations. An Artes Liberales score of 1 and an Arabic (Classical) score of 3 is required to read from the Qur’an. The true Berber language, known as Tamazight to its speakers, has divided into three main dialects over time: Tariﬁt (Maghreb and Rif), Kabyle (modern''
''Algeria region) and Tashelhiyt (central highlands). Zenaga is a fourth dialect spoken by the tribes of south-west Mauritania and was the primary tongue of the warriors of the Almoravid Empire. Siwi is an eatsern dialect spoken only by the inhabitants of the Siwah oasis. Contemporary Berber speakers and the Tuareg still use the Tiﬁnagh (Libyan) alphabet, although more recently the Arabic alphabet has been substituted particularly in the coastal Muslim enclaves with their Arab dominated culture. Also known as Sabir, lingua franca, the pidgin trade tongue of the Mediterranean, is the most common language spoken by visitors from Mythic Europe, although many of the foreigners speak their native languages (French, Greek, Italian, Occitan, and Veneto) in the company of their own people. Tamahak is the less common dialect of the Tuareg tribes of the deep south and is less closely related than the other northern dialects. The southern Banu Khalida speak their own language, an early dialect similar to Punic combined with a mixture of archaic Arabic and Tamazight.''
''Descendents of Berber families involved in the initial invasion of Visigothic Hispania speak predominantly Arabic — only the warriors and religious hierarchs of the newer Almoravid and Almohad waves speak Berber as their primary tongue and many have a limited ﬂuency in Arabic, equivalent to a Arabic (Classical) score of 3, which permits basic understanding of the Qur’an and the sermons of the clerics. Many dhimmi encountered in the Maghreb use the Andalusi dialect of Arabic learnt in Iberia but the lingua franca (Western dialect) and the various languages of the merchant republics can be heard being spoken by visiting Europeans in the coastal cities. Arabic and the Tamazight dialects spoken in the north use the Arabic script, but the Tuareg and southern Berbers use their own Tiﬁnagh alphabet. The Punic dialect spoken by the Banu Khalida uses a variant of the ancient Phoenician cuneiform alphabet.''
''DEAD LANGUAGES''
''Lost to the past, several Dead Languages brought by invaders to the region no longer have living speakers but''

|}
''dominating the rural Berber underclass in the coastal regions, while the interior remained predominantly Berber. This situation persisted until the Almoravid dynasty took control of the region: this Berber political movement placed its own in positions of power.''
''BANU HILAL AND ALLIES''
''The Banu Hilal are confederation of Bedouin tribes from the Upper Nile who arrived in Mythic Africa in the eleventh century. Their arrival destroyed the power of the Arab Zirid dynasty, and severely weakened the Hammadids. Before the arrival of the Banu Hilal there was a distinct separation between Arab and Berber, but the nomadic Banu Hilal have brought the Arabic language into traditionally Tamazight regions, along with Sunni Islam and nomadism. The Maqil accompanied the Banu Hilal on their invasion of the Maghreb.''
''They originated in Yemen, and consisted of several sub-tribes; the most important being the Banu Hassan, after whom the Hassaniya variety of Arabic is named. They settled in the far west beyond the High Atlas Mountains, although some remained in Ifriqiyeh with their sahirs, who became advisers to the Banu Hilal. The Banu Sulaym originated in Nejd and Hejaz and followed the Banu Hilal and Maqil westwards. The Banu Hebib tribe of the Banu Sulaym settled in Cyrenaica, whereas the ‘Awf, Debbab, and Zegb tribes settled west of them in Tripolitania and the fringes of Libyan Desert. After a century of feuding and civil war, the Debbab eventually came out as the dominant tribe.''

==Others==

''The Ayyubid Sultanate founded by Saladin currently controls Egypt, Cyrenaica and Tripolitania, as well as much of the Arabian Peninsula. They rule the region from Tripoli. The rulers set in place over Cyrenaican cities are Kurdish in origin, and supported by Bedouin and Turkish forces.''
''BANU KHALIDA''
''The Banu Khalida occupy twelve oases in the very south of Mauritania. They live further into the torrid zone than any other human race. They have seemingly limitless quantities of gold, and are blessed with well-irrigated soil and a temperate microclimate for their cities despite the blasting heat of their surrounds.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==African Languages (Cont’d)==

''inscriptions carved on ruins can be found throughout the wastes. Carthaginian is the classical Punic dialect spoken by the western Phoenician colonies that later formed the empire of Carthage but is now found only on inscription or uttered by the ghosts of the destroyed empire. Libyan refers to the pre-Punic languages of the Numidians and other tribes encountered by the ﬁrst Carthaginian settlers and their Roman conquerors.''
''East German (Gothic, Vandalic) Greek (Classical) Latin (Classical) Libyan Punic (Carthaginian, Phoenician)''
''The German scripts use the Gothic alphabet and the Punic dialects uses the original Phoenician script. Ancient Libyan uses a cuneiform script resembling the Phoenician alphabet and bearing a deﬁnite resemblance to the Tiﬁnagh alphabet still used by the Tuareg.''
''DIALECTS''
''The various Berber groups speak related dialects, although some speakers may ﬁnd making themselves intelligible difﬁcult if they speak one of the more isolated tongues.''
''Same language, different dialects:  –1 penalty to both speakers  Tamazight (northern dialects) vs Tamahak dialect –2 penalty to both speakers Tamazight (including Tamahak) vs Punic (Khalidan) –3 penalty to both speakers Punic vs Libyan  –2 penalty to both speakers''
''The other languages are so distinct from each other that comprehension is likely to be based on signing and good guesswork, or magic. Example: Jarfuret the Khalidan (see later) with Punic 5 (Khalidan) speaks to a fellow Khalidan with an effective score of 6, Punic-speaking demons with no dialect with an effective score of 5, Carthaginian or Phoenician ghosts with an effective''
''score of 4, ancient Libyan ghosts with an effective score of 3, and can hold a basic conversation with northern Berbers and Tuareg (effective score 2). He cannot however make himself understood to Arabic speakers or northern characters without using some form of magic.''
''A NOTE ON PRONUNCIATION''
''While Tamazight grammar has its own rules for pluralizing nouns, it is a common convention in western writing to indicate the plurals of many words by simply adding s (e.g. Tuaregs). That is the convention used (with a couple of exceptions) throughout this book. As a (very approximate) pronunciation guide: c is pronounced ch as in “church,” i is pronounced ee as in “meat,” q as k in “kiss,” u as in “mood,” v is pronounced f as in “free,” ny is nye as in “mañana,” kh as in Scottish “loch,” sy as in “shield,” nng as in “bingo.” Other pronunciations are as normal for English with rare exceptions. Similar guidelines for the pronunciation of Arabic words are given in Realms of Power: the Divine Revised Edition, page 107.''

|}
''TUAREG''
''The Tuareg are a nomadic people sharing a common origin with the Berbers. They roam the breadth of Great Desert, and probably know it better than anyone else.''
''NON-HUMAN RACES''
''Africa is home to a fair number of different kinds of Magic Humans, such as the headless Blemmyae, the dogfaced Cynocephali, and the childsized Tripithami. In general these do not mix with normal humans except in large cities, but encounters with them are not uncommon.''

==Muslim Names==

''Traditional Muslim names consist of some or all of a number of elements:''
''1. Ism: The name given at birth. This may be an Arabic name, the Qur’anic form of a biblical name, a compound name consisting of “’Abd” (servant of) plus one of the names of God (among men; women might use “Amat” in place of “Abd,” but this is much less common), or a non-Arabic name. 2. Nasab: Pedigree. The nasab in Arabic consists of “ibn” (son of) or “bint” (daughter of), followed by either the father’s ism or a family ism. The similar Tamazight equivalent used by Berber men is “ag” but there is no female equivalent. 3. Kunya: This is the term “abu” (father of) or “umm” (mother of), preﬁxed to either the name of a child or an attribute, acquired either upon becoming a parent or as an epithet. This may appear before the ism or after the nasab. 4. Laqab: An honoriﬁc or descriptive title, or occasionally a nickname, often held by nobility, religious notables or other important ﬁgures. Many laqabs consist of a compound term ending in “al-Din” (of the faith) or “al-Dawla” (of the state), while another common form is to start with “al-Malik” (the king), followed by''
''a descriptive term. Individuals may have more than one laqab. 5. Nisba: A broad term denoting profession, place of origin or birth, or tribe or family. It can also be a descriptive element. Nisbas often begin with the deﬁnite article “al-” and end in “i,” in the case of men, or “iyya,” in the case of women. An individual may have several nisbas.''
''As an example, the full name of Saladin is: Al-Malik al-Nasir Salah al-Din Abu’lMuzaffar Yusuf ibn Ayyub ibn Shadhi al-Kurdi''
''This breaks down into: a) Al-Malik al-Nasir (the King who Aids laqab) b) Salah al-Din (Righteousness of the Faith laqab) c) Abu’l-Muzaffar (father of al-Muzaffar kunya) d) Yusuf (Joseph ism) e) ibn Ayyub (son of Job nasab) f) ibn Shadhi (son of Shadhi nasab) g) al-Kurdi (the Kurd nisba) A number of sample isms, laqabs and nisbas are given below. Other Muslim names may be found in many history books about the Middle East.''
''SAMPLE ARABIC ISMS''
''• Men’s isms: ‘Abd Allah, ‘Abd al-Rahman, Ahmad, ‘Ali, Asad, Ayyub, Bakr, Badar, Dawud, Dirgham, Fadl, Ghassan, Ghazi, Harith, Harun, al-Hasan, al-Husayn, Ibrahim, ‘Isa, Ishaq, Isma’il, Ja’far, Jamil, Kathir, Khalid, Khalil, Labid, Mahmud, Muhammad, Nu’man, Qasim, Rashid, Ridwan, Salih, Salim, Shibl, Sulayman, Tahir, Tamim, Tariq, Thabit, ‘Umar, Usama, ‘Uthman, Wahhab, Yahya, Yusuf, Zayd, Zibyan, Zubayr. • Women’s isms: ‘A’isha, Amina, Anisa, Bilqis, Busra, Dhakira, Duba’a, Dujaja, Durra, Fadila, Fatima, Ghazala, Ghaytha, Habiba, Hajir, Hakima, Hind, Jamila, Jumana, Kabira, Kabsha, Khadija, Khalila, Layla, Lubaba, Maryam, Maymuna, Nasiba, Nawal, Nawar, Qamra’, Rabi’a, Rahima, Sa’da, Saﬁyya, Salma, al-Shafa’, Shayma’,''
''Sumayta, Taliha, Tarifa, Tayma, Thubayta, ‘Unayza, Walida, Yasira, Yasmina, Zahira, Zahra, Zaynab.''
''SAMPLE MUSLIM LAQABS''
''Given their predominance in government, Muslim laqabs are most commonly used by men.''
''• Men’s laqabs: ‘Imad al-Din (Support of the Faith), ‘Izz al-Din (Power of the Faith), Nur al-Din (Light of the Faith), Salah alDin (Righteousness of the Faith), Sharaf al-Din (Honor of the Faith), Baha’ al-Dawla (Beauty of the State), Majd al-Dawla (Glory of the State), Nasir al-Dawla (Aid of the State), Sayf al-Dawla (Sword of the State), Shams al-Dawla (Sun of the State), Nizam al-Mulk (Order of the Kingdom), Fakhr al-Mulk (Pride of the Kingdom), Taj al-Muluk (Crown of Kings), alMalik al-’Adil (the Just King), alMalik al-Afdal (the Most Excellent King), al-Malik al-Kamil (the Perfect King), al-Malik al-Nasir (the King who Aids), al-Malik al-Salih (the Righteous King). • Women’s laqabs: Walidat Khalil (Mother of Khalil — used by the Mamluk sultana Shajar al-Durr (r. 1250), indicating her being mother to the son of al-Salih II Ayyub), Radiyyat al-Din (Approval of the Faith).''
''SAMPLE MUSLIM NISBAS''
''• Men’s nisbas: al-Kuﬁ (of Kufa), al-Makki (of Mecca), al-Isfahani (of Isfahan), al-Farisi (of Persia), al-Khwarizmi (of Khwarizm), alKalbi (of the tribe of Kalb), alKhazraji (of the tribe of Khazraj), al-Qaysi (of the tribe of Qays), al-Shaybani (of the tribe of Shayban), al-Ayyubi (of the family of Ayyub), al-Kutubi (the bookseller), al-Qalanisi (the hat-maker), al-Suyuﬁ (the swordmaker), al-Shaﬁ’i (follower of the Shaﬁ’i school of law), al-Mutanabbi (claiming to be a prophet). • Women’s nisbas appear in the''
''masculine or feminine forms in historical sources, depending on whether the author regards them as being part of the woman’s name or the patrilineal genealogy. Generally if the kunya is placed after the nasabs, the nisbas will be in the feminine. The feminine forms of the above are: al-Kufiyya, al-Makkiyya, al-Isfahaniyya, al-Farisiyya, al-Khwarizmiyya, al-Kalbiyya, al-Khazrajiyya, al-Qaysiyya, al-Shaybaniyya, al-Ayyubiyya, al-Kutubiyya, alQalanisiyya, al-Suyufiyya, alShafi’iyya, al-Mutanabbiyya.''

==Berber Names==

''Muslim name structures are generally used by most Berbers except the Tuareg, with only a few differences. Traditional Berber isms tend replace the Arabic components but Laqabs and nisbas tend to follow the Muslim model, although often using their Tamazight equivalents. Traditional Berber men have much simpler names compared to their more Arabized counterparts, although some of the more urban individuals have adopted the extended Muslim naming conventions and use openly Arabic names. The most common structure for a traditional Berber man is “(name) ag (name),” where “ag” stands for the similar Arabic term “ibn” or “son of.” Traditional Berber women have even simpler names than their menfolk and lack a patronymic. Famous Berber women are often referred to merely by a single forename in daily use or just use a Tamazight laqab. The majority of Tuareg have Tamazight names like other Berbers, although some members of the more northern tribes use Arabic elements. As an example, Aljilani ag Ibrahim is “Ajilani, son of Ibrahim” and the use of both Tamazight and Arabic elements in his name likely signifies mixed heritage. Several apparently Christian names have been encountered, hinting at possible pre-Islamic influence.''
''• Men’s isms: Aderﬁ, Afalkay, Afaw, Afer, Afra, Afulay, Agafay, Agerzam, Aghbalu, Aghilas, Agizul, Agwectim, Agwilal, Agwillul, Ajeddig, Akensus, Aksim, Aljilani, Amalu, Amanar, Amaynu, Amayyas, Amazigh, Amazzal, Amenzu, Ameqran, Amesggin, Amessan, Amestan, Amezwar, Amêzyan, Amnay, Amzîn, Anamar, Anaruz, Anazâr, Anebdad, Angad, Anir, Antalas, Areksim, Asafar, Asafu, Asfru, Aslal, Asmun, Assalas, Asulil, Atbir, Atrar, Awsim, Awzal, Aylal, Ayrad, Ayyur, Azayku, Azêllay, Azenkwed, Azenzêr, Azerwal, Aziki, Aznag, Azrur, Azûlay, Badis, Bukkus, Gaya, Gwafa, Gwasila, Idder, Idir, Idus, Igider, Ikken, Ilatig, Ilayetmas, Irat, Isul, Itri, Izdârasen, Izem, Izemrasen, Izîl, Izri, Masinissa, Massensen, Massin, Maysar, Meddur, Mennad, Merin, Munatas, Saden, Sifaks, Tacﬁn, Takfarinas, Tanan, Udad, Ugwistan, Usaden, Usem, Usus, Wimmiden, Winaruz, Winifsan, Winitran, Winsen, Wiwul, Wiwurgh, Yani, Yattuy, Yuba, Yufayyur, Yuﬁtran. Yuﬁtri, Yuften. Yugerten, Ziri. • Women’s isms: Bahac, Barshako, Damya, Dassin, Dihya, Guraya, Hennu, Herru, Ijja, Ijju, Illi, Ittû, Izza, Kella, Kwella, Lalla, Lunja, Mamma, Mammas, Markunda, Meghighda, Menna, Siman, Siniman,Tadêﬁ, Taderﬁt, Tadla, Tafalkayt, Tafsut, Tafukt, Tagafayt, Taghbalut, Tagwerramt, Tagwilalt, Tagwillult, Tagwizult, Thiyya, Tajeddigt, Takama, Takensust, Taksimt, Tala, Tamalut, Tamanart, Tamaynut, Tamayyurt, Tamazight,Tamazzalt, Tamenzut, Tameqrant, Tamesmûtt, Tamezyant, Tamimt, Tamment, Tamseggint, Tanamart, Tanazârt, Tanebdatt, Tanefzawit, Tanirt, Tanemghurt, Tasa, Tasafut, Tasekkurt, Tatbirt, Taweckint, Tawenza, Tawzalt, Taylalt, Tayri, Tazêllayt, Tazenkwêt, Tazerwalt, Tazikit, Tazrurt, Tazrzît, Tecwwa, Tedus, Tidar, Tidir, Tifawt, Tilelli, Tingh, Tinhinan, Tinifsan, Tinitran, Tinsin, Tintadêﬁ, Tintafukt, Tintfsut, Tintifawin, Tintlelli, Tintziri, Tinwurgh, Titrit,Tiwul, Tizemt,''
''Tiziri, Tlafulki, Tlatig, Tlaten, Tlayt, Tlaytmas, Tsul, Tuda, Tudatt, Tudert, Tufayyur, Tuﬁtran, Tuﬁtri, Tuftafukt, Tuftent, Tuftifawt, Tugertent, Tumert, Tunaruz, Tzeddig, Tzîl, Ultafa, Ultasila.''

==Maghrebi Arabs==

''Troupes who select a Mythic African setting for their sagas may opt for a mixture of character origins. This section helps players to maintain their role when playing African Arabs, who are the most numerous people in the northern part of the continent.''

==Pick A Religion==

''The vast majority of characters who live in the Maghreb are Muslims. Muslim characters must publicly demonstrate certain virtues, or they gain negative Reputations. That being said, the True Faith Virtue is no more common in Mythic Africa than in Mythic Europe. Most Muslims fall short of the saintly ideal. As a rough guide, the further west an Arabic character comes from, the more religiously conservative he is likely to be, provided he is not from Marrakesh. Characters who are poor or nomadic are less likely to make excuses for luxuries than their urban co-religionists.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==This Is Not Real Islam==

''Real-world Islam is too complex to be described in a role-playing sourcebook. This book instead contains simple guidelines to allow non-Muslims to play characters who are superﬁcially suitable for telling stories similar to traditional folktales. No offense is intended by this. Players are encouraged to learn more about Islam, to enrich their game experience.''

|}
''THE VIRTUES OF A GOOD MUSLIM''
''Islam has ﬁve key activities, referred to as Pillars, which demonstrate the submission of the worshiper to the will of Allah. Profession of Faith and Attempt to Follow The Faith’s Laws: To become a Muslim, a person must make the statement that there is no God but God, and that Mohammed is His Prophet, in the presence of Muslims. This serves a vaguely similar role in Islam to baptism in Christianity, in that it brings the person into the community of the religion. The religious instructions given to Mohammed are recorded in the Qur’an. In addition to this, Muslim jurists consult a series of folk-sayings which have passed down from the Prophet. Regular Prayer: A Muslim prays at ﬁve speciﬁed times each day, while facing Mecca. These times are between dawn and sunrise (preferably well before sunrise), slightly after noon, in the afternoon, after sunset but before dusk, and after dusk (preferably before midnight). Before prayer, the worshiper washes certain parts of the body. A Muslim need not to go to a mosque to pray, but many ﬁnd it convenient to do so. A mosque provides water for cleansing, and has a niche to mark the correct direction to pray toward. Friday is the holiest day, and many Muslims make a particular effort to get to the mosque at midday. Giving alms: Characters are expected to give alms. Some rulers also collect taxes for redistribution as alms. The idea that wealth is a reward for virtue, or conversely that the poor somehow deserve to be poor, is foreign to Maghrebi thought. Fasting: Particularly during the month of Ramadan, a character is required to fast, unless a child, elderly, pregnant, ill or traveling. Fasting includes not drinking water, so it can be difﬁcult to adjust to the fast when it occurs in hotter times of the year. During the evenings of Ramadan, people often break their fasts with lavish feasts, taking turns to host their friends and neighbors. There are certain other dietary taboos in Islam, like pork, alcohol, and garlic, which are observed''
''with varying degrees of stringency. Pilgrimage: Each Muslim, particularly every man, should try to visit Mecca, and preferably also Medina, at least once in his lifetime. A character who returns from pilgrimage is honored with the title of Hajj (masculine) or Hajja (feminine) and many wear green head coverings to mark their status. Poorer people often go on pilgrimages to other places: three pilgrimages to Kairouan are considered the same as a pilgrimage to Mecca, by poorer Maghrebis.''
''NON-MUSLIM CHARACTERS: THE DHIMMI FLAW''
''Christians perform useful functions in Muslims society, and are allowed to remain in Mythic Africa provided they fulﬁll certain duties, and avoid provocative acts. These social restrictions are reﬂected mechanically in the Dhimmi Flaw, which is a Minor General Flaw. Characters who do not reside in Mythic Africa might use Outsider instead. As a general rule, the further west characters are in the Maghreb, the worse dhimmis are treated. Jews are treated particularly badly. If your saga’s history follows that of the real world, the last synagogue in Marrakesh will close in four years’ time. There are exceptions, which are described in the city chapters later, but the Golden Age of Jewish acceptance that ﬂowered in the previous century is over in the Maghreb. Dhimmis must not:''
''• avoid paying the annual tax on dhimmis • hold ofﬁces of government, which includes rank in the army • proselytize • have sex with or marry Muslim women. • carry weapons • plot with the enemies of the ruler • give evidence against Muslims (even in self-defense) • wear religious symbols • be disruptive, by praying or ringing bells, or having lavish funerals • create new places of worship, or repair current ones without permission. • publicly do things Muslims ﬁnd''
''unsightly, like eating pork or drinking alcohol • hide the distinctive mark on their clothes, in areas where such a mark is used • ride horses or camels • react badly to expressions of contempt, by Muslims, for their low status''
''The two main roles for Christians in Mythic Africa are as guards and merchants.''
''GUARDS''
''Many Muslim leaders think it wise to have bodyguards who have no connection to the webs of social obligation which permeate Mythic African society. They therefore hire foreign guards. The rule that dhimmis may not bear arms is not enforced in this case. A problem with hiring mercenaries is maintaining their loyalty; a bodyguard who ﬁghts only for money is not dependable in a coup d’etat. To minimize the risk of betrayal, the nobleman must be selective in his choices. The younger sons of European noble houses are often chosen as bodyguards. They have the rudiments of a code of honor, and extensive training in armored ﬁghting. Most are grateful that they have not been forced to become sellswords, but can retain the dignity and lifestyle associated with their birth. Many cannot go home, due to intrafamily feuding, or because their lands have been claimed by others. None of these things make these recruits perfectly loyal, but they make the Europeans socially disconnected. This allows the nobleman to build loyalty by binding the Europeans to himself and his allies. Intermarriage, without conversion, is of course impossible, but conversions, or concubinage, often occur.''
''MERCHANTS''
''Christian merchants form enclaves in many of the coastal cities of the Maghreb. They are not permitted to trade through the Straits of Gibraltar, but trade to other parts of Europe is common. Sicily, in particular, is a major''
''market for African goods. Players with merchant characters may ﬁnd the City and Guild supplement useful.''
''MONEYLENDERS AND WINE-SMUGGLERS''
''Many professions in this society are forbidden non-Muslims, forcing Dhimmis to ﬁnd work in less savory industries. This means that many of the jobs which are left for Jews to do in Mythic Europe are, in Mythic Africa, performed by Christians. Money-lending, for example, is one of these jobs. Christian money-lenders in Mythic Africa suffer much the same opprobrium that Jewish moneylenders do in Europe. Another signiﬁcant shadow industry is the supply and sale of alcohol. Muslims are forbidden to make, transport, or sell alcohol, but many drink it regularly. All Christians, in comparison, are meant to know a priest, and all priests require wine to perform the Mass. This means every Christian, in theory, knows a man who knows a man who makes wine. Many Muslims have a Christian contact who is their supplier. The main alcohol in the Maghreb is date wine, but this trade is also dominated by Christians.''

==Always Speak Respectfully==

''When communicating, characters from this region are careful to maintain the dignity of the person with whom they are speaking. They use a variety of techniques for this. Speaking in this way is one of the charms of the setting and troupes are encouraged to experiment with it. Characters speak to each other in a formal, polite way, even within close friendships and families. Lacking any other social cue, the honoriﬁc sidi for a man, or lella for a woman, can be used to mark the person the character is speaking to as an honorable person of higher status, greater age, or deeper wisdom. This politeness does not extend to public spaces: people on the street are fair game for all kinds of jostling.''
''AVOID MAKING DIRECT REQUESTS''
''A character unable to meet a reasonable request may lose face, so it is important to phrase requests as suggestions, or to send them through intermediaries. Conversely a character who is given a reasonable request must fulﬁll it, and what is considered reasonable is judged by different, and perhaps broader, criteria than are found in European cultures. This, importantly, includes requests for information, or pressing for answers to questions. If a person asks for information, and you cannot provide it, you lose face, and then he loses face for embarrassing you.''
''AVOID SPEAKING ABOUT THE FUTURE''
''Respect for God is demonstrated by the use of the phrase “if God wills it” when speaking about intended actions. By using this phrase, the character is signaling his acceptance of God as author of human destiny. In any case, speaking about good fortune about to be realized is foolish, as it invites the Evil Eye from jealous rivals. This is represented as a +3 bonus on Hex rolls, to destroy the circumstance discussed, by any character who envies the speaker.''

==How to Act==

''This section highlights some key features of Maghrebi culture. Players are encouraged to consider them when determining the actions of their characters.''
''AVOID SHAME''
''A person does not accrue shame for sinning: shame is the public knowledge of his transgressions. This means that certain sins, like drinking, accrue little shame in most communities, and sins with no living witnesses, like murder, accrue no shame. Characters from Mythic Europe often do not care that they have negative Reputations, or deliberately cultivate them. Some nobles, for example, think it wise to have a bloodthirsty''
''Reputation, as it keeps their neighbors pliant. In contrast, a Muslim character from this area generally wishes to expiate any negative Reputation, lest his family repudiate him, to free themselves of shameful associations. This society, aware of the need to redress shame, has many methods of countering it.''
''REPUTATIONS AND SHAME''
''If a character has a negative Local Reputation, the usual method of removing it is to deliberately do contrary things, so that a rival Reputation is formed. Once the competing Reputation equals the undesired Reputation, new experience gained in the second Reputation can instead be used to buy down the ﬁrst (rules for this are found on page 167 of ArM5.) This culture has such a strong emphasis on shame that other characters expect and accept that characters with a shameful Reputation will counter it in this way. It’s not seen as cynical: attempting to reconcile with society is both morally right and obvious. The epitome of removing shame is to go on the Haj, the pilgrimage to Mecca. The Haj is, from a game perspective, a series of scenes. Each of these grants Reputation experience to erode negative Reputations and grant a positive Reputation as a Haji +1. It also provides other beneﬁts, depending on the events which take place during the character’s travels. Shorter pilgrimages can also remove negative Reputations but because they contain fewer events, they may not provide as much experience. This is why, in game terms, some pilgrimages are described on the basis that “ﬁve (or three, or whatever) pilgrimages to here are equal to a pilgrimage to Mecca.” Beyond it’s social role, in mediating shame, the Haj also grants religious insight. The Haj may be simulated using the rules for pilgrimages given in The Church (pages 15–19). A character can undergo both enlightenment and social rehabilitation simultaneously, but these are different processes. Shame removal through pilgrimage is a social, not a supernatural, tradition.''
''THE GIFT''
''Although being Gifted is not, of itself, shameful, it makes people distrust magi. This makes it easy for magi to develop negative Reputations, which are shameful.''
''ASSOCIATE WITH FORTUNATE PEOPLE''
''One large difference between Muslims from this area and those further east is a belief in baraka, which is a sort of supernatural power. Baraka will be called fortune in this book, to differentiate it from a similar concept discussed in Realms of Power: The Divine. People with fortune are more skillful, luckier and happier than other people. Fortune is given before birth as an element of the person’s fate; it is not earned during life. Nonetheless, if you interact with people who have powerful fortune, you''
''can be pulled into fortunate situations by them, so its almost like having good fortune yourself. There’s no particular Virtue representing fortune, and Hermetic magic cannot detect it, although it can sometimes detect the effects of the Virtues it creates. Player characters who are wealthy, lucky or highly skilled have fortune. Player characters who are poor, unlucky, or of modest skill do not. People are seen to have fortune by others; they do not trigger their fortune as a person might use the daily power associated with Mythic Blood, for example.''
''MURABITIN''
''People with fortune are often so thankful for their blessings that they become deeply religious. This leads them to True Faith and murabitinism, a sort of''
''sainthood. Once a murabit dies, some of his fortune resides in his relics and place of entombment, which is also called a murabit. Many families have a favorite local saint, who they pray to as an intercessor, and whose tomb they visit once a year. A man who fails to perform this duty would not be surprised if spirits of place or faeries came to torment him, for failing to show respect to his family’s benefactor.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Agencies==

''If your troupe is using the rules for agencies published in Houses of Hermes: Societates (pages 140–144), what the character is doing is constantly pushing up bond scores, so that when the character needs help, it can be requested without weakening the Bond markedly.''

==Leisure of the Wealthy==

''Wealthy people have many diversions to ﬁll their time.''
''AT HOME''
''As described elsewhere in this chapter, Maghrebi people try to include others in many of their daily tasks. They also hold parties in their homes strictly for the pleasure of entertaining their friends. Among men of property and inﬂuence, these parties vary in tone due to cultural differences between hosts, and due to the strictness with which that particular social circle conforms to the Islamic ideal. Sharing food plays an important role in recreation. Lunch is the largest meal of the day. The people of this region eat a diet similar to those in the northern Mediterranean, with a few differences. Spices are cheaper here, particularly in the large cities, and so they are more common in food. More dates are eaten in Mythic Africa than elsewhere. Flatbread is served with virtually every meal, and is often ﬂavored with aniseed. Couscous, small grains of pasta made from the hard bits of wheat that resist stone-grinding, is''
''a staple in the diet. All the food is served together, in large communal dishes. People always eat with the right hand. In some parts of the Tell, the current fashion for these parties requires characters skilled in Carousing. Each attendee dresses in a bright robe. He perfumes his beard with musk or rosewater. At the party he sits on a couch that wraps around three sides of the room (called a diwan), or on a stool with a mattress upon it. He is served from huge communal dishes of food, with are placed on little tables or on the ﬂoor. Wine and date wine are liberally provided. Entertainment comes from slave-songstresses, who often belong to the host. The affections of these women are open to negotiation. Characters who wish to discuss signiﬁcant business matters may need to attend, or throw, such parties, but a Reputation as a great host may alienate local holy men, particularly if the characters are unbelievers.''
''TOWN AND COUNTRY''
''Local people usually socialize at home, but there are two major excep''
''tions. Characters attend the public baths. They also participate in sport, which must usually be undertaken outside the city. Bathing follows the Roman model, but public baths are less opulent than in Roman times. Characters can sweat, swim, and get massages together, while discussing political affairs, mutual acquaintances, or business matters. Barbers and physicians also sometimes attend the bathers. Sports popular in the Tell tend to be descended from military training. Archery, fencing, horse racing and throwing javelins are simply practice for war, now done with friends and refreshments. Polo is used to practice small unit cavalry tactics, while a ball and mallet game similar to croquet or hockey serves a similar purpose for infantry. Hunting and falconry are also popular. Falconers in the Tell take prey from birds quickly, then slit the animal’s throat. This means the animal dies of an injury caused by a human. This is important, because Islamic law forbids eating the ﬂesh of animals who have been killed by predators.''

|}
''Although thought of as holy men — and, rarely, women — local saints and their tombs can be tied to any Realm. Some think that people who have lots of fortune, but aren’t particularly holy, can still become local saints. This is true, but in this case the “saint” is not aligned with the Divine Realm. It’s either a Magical spirit of place, or a faerie playing the role of saint. Intermediaries between man and God are speciﬁcally forbidden by the Qur’an, which is why conservative Muslims and those from outside the region worry that these saints are demons (particularly False Gods). Some murabits have local sects of followers, who practice secret teachings. A character able to observe the initiatory rituals or activities of a sect can sometimes determine which Realm a particular murabit is aligned to. Examination of the tomb, and detection of its aura, is also helpful in some cases, although Infernal murabits mask their true allegiance.''
''ACT AS A MEMBER OF YOUR SOCIAL CLASS''
''Wealthy or educated characters must reinforce their place in society by commanding those with less status. This means characters socialize within their own class. If your character has an education, or wealth, he must not do physi''
''cal labor. The country is full of slaves, or people who can be employed for virtually nothing. To fail to employ people is to fail one’s community.''
''DRESS APPROPRIATELY FOR YOUR WEALTH''
''Male dress in Mythic Africa usually consists of a few basic articles. The fundamental garments are loose trousers, which on their own theoretically meet the standards of modesty. These are almost always worn with a long, often hooded, robe and a head covering. The head covering may be a scarf, turban or hat. The headdress may identify the ethnic or geographical origin of the wearer. The basic garments are usually accompanied by tough slippers and a jacket. Women in the presence of men not closely related to them are required to cover their bodies and arms in garments loose enough to be unprovocative, but not so loose as to make them indistinguishable from each other. They must also cover their hair. Generally the body is covered with a single piece of colored cloth held together with pins, and the hair is covered with a scarf. Berber women wear brighter and more revealing clothing than Arabs. Clothes are a useful way to express''
''social distinction. The clothing of rich people is brighter and has ﬁner embroidery than that of the poor. Similarly, rich people conspicuously display jewelry. In opposition to this characters on pilgrimage all wear white unadorned clothing as a sign of the equality of people before God.''
''MAINTAIN YOUR SOCIAL NETWORK''
''Characters from this area spend a lot of time with family, friends, and business contacts. This seems, to some Europeans, as if there’s a continual round of parties, which is a bit decadent. The point of this, however, is to maintain social networks, purchased at character creation with Virtues like Social Contacts, Gossip and Temporal Inﬂuence. A person needs to spend a lot of time demonstrating his usefulness to his social network. Many of the tasks which could be performed at home are instead performed in public to provide further opportunities for maintaining a character’s social network. Communal bathing and food preparation, for example, allow characters to avoid wasting social time on necessary functions. Whenever your character is doing anything alone, seriously consid''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Jealous Wife==

''This faerie possesses women who fall from the central favor of their husband, when another wife has good fortune. Note that this means a house in which all wives are treated equally cannot be inhabited by the Jealous Wife. The Jealous Wife sometimes uses poison, and sometimes seems incapable of it. This may indicate there are several of these creatures. The Jealous Wife can, if she chooses not to kill, instead keep causing wives to rise and fall in the husband’s estimation, possessing each victim in turn. The Wife is not suited to be a player character.''
''Faerie Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0*, Sta 0*, Dex 0*, Qik''
''0*. * These statistics are provided by the human host. Size: 0 (as host) Virtues and Flaws: Focus Faerie Powers (Possession, see below), 2 x Increased Might, Loosely Material*; Incognizant. *Modiﬁed to a Minor Virtue: may only take forms using possession power Personality Traits: appears Jealous +3, Vengeful +3, but as some scholars have pointed out, the faerie cannot itself truly be jealous because it, personally, has not lost anything to the victim. The faerie just chooses women who have some social prompting toward jealousy, and''
''possesses them, acting as it thinks it would be interesting for them to act. This is mechanically best represented by personality traits. Combat: Fingernails *: Init +1, Attack +3, Defense +1, Damage +0 * Modiﬁed by the body’s statistics. The ﬁngernails are no more dangerous than those of a usual human. The faerie prefers to use intrigue and, sometimes, poison. Soak: 0 Wound Penalties: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Pretenses: Intrigue 5 (servants), but may use Pretenses equal to the Abilities of the host.''

|}
''er whether it might not be better to throw a party, or invite some friends around to gossip while you all perform the same task. Gift giving also plays an important role in maintaining each character’s social network. When gifts are given, they are not opened in the presence of the giver, and might never be spoken of again. This is because to show enthusiasm for a gift implies the receiver needed a thing, but could not buy it for himself. This brings shame. Even religious rituals are performed at home. Circumcision is celebrated with a party. Couples are married at home. Funeral rites are performed at home. All of these life-rituals are shared with relatives and friends in the person’s private space, not in mosques. Most magi live in a way that’s considered particularly alien by Maghrebi people. A person who disappears into a laboratory for hours, without seeing other people, is weirdly antisocial. Those magi who lock themselves away for three months are clearly holy, hiding shameful acts, or insane. That most magi do not live with members of their''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Jealous Wife (Cont’d)==

''Powers: Possession, 1 or more points, Init +2, Mentem: If this power penetrates, the victim is possessed by the Jealous Wife and is under her direct control. Any attempt to force the victim to act contrary to her nature, or to use any of the host’s own magical powers requires that faerie spends Might. A supernatural power (including spell-casting) requires 1 Might point per magnitude to produce. A questionable action that is contrary to the nature of the host requires the faerie to exceed the possessed being’s Personality Trait roll on a stress die + Might points spent. The storyguide may give a modiﬁer to the Personality Trait roll based on the nature of the command (see the Entrancement power, ArM5, page 65, for suggestions). Both Might costs must be met if the use of a supernatu''
''ral power is also contrary to the victim’s nature. If the Jealous Wife is in direct control of its host’s actions, the host acquires her Magic Resistance, but is also affected by wards that would normally exclude her. If the host is acting under her own free will, then she does not beneﬁt from Magic Resistance, but may also walk through wards with impunity. This power’s costs are not based on the Hermetic system of magic: it is based on material in Realms of Power: Magic. Equipment: Someone else’s body, all of their material goods. Vis: 3 Mentem, in the ﬁngernails of the possession victim. Appearance: This faerie does not have a material body, but if seen with Faerie Sight, or Second Sight outside a body, she seems to be a face with a furious expression that ﬂoats like a mask before the victim’s head.''
''STORY HOOK: THE CHAMELEON''
''A messenger contacts the player characters with an offer from a powerful lady in a nearby town. Her husband has been visiting prostitutes, and she wishes to regain his favor. In Tunisian folk magic a perfect way to reorient the desire of straying husbands is to put the bones of a chameleon into his food. She would like to buy a dead chameleon, and offers a valuable jewel in exchange for it. How will the player characters hunt a chameleon? It can be so similar to what stands behind it as to be virtually invisible and has a venomous bite. After the characters have given the dead chameleon to the lady’s servant, can they ﬁnd another use for its venom? What strange effects on the body does chameleon venom cause?''

|}
''family is considered tragic. People may assume that some terrible thing has occurred in the magus’s homeland. That magi do not, generally, marry is considered both scandalous and extremely sad.''

==Segregate by Sex==

''Life is divided into public and private spheres in the Maghreb, and women are part of the private sphere, while men dominate both.''
''FEMALE AGENTS''
''It is almost impossible for male characters to speak to women of high social status to whom they are not related. This strict sexual segregation makes female characters useful when gathering information or exploring the homes of non-player characters. Women often socialize at the baths or while performing chores, either in their homes or on their rooftops, and trading interesting information with each other is one way to maintain their social network. Female characters are often restricted from the full range of public actions they could perform in European settings. This can sometimes split the story a troupe is telling into two plot lines which run in parallel. To keep the group together, female characters may wish to pretend to be boys. This is may be represented with the Dark Secret Flaw, if the risk of discovery is a story element the troupe wishes to explore. If a player simply wants to keep the group together, but doesn’t want the ruse to generate potential stories, then the character may still pretend to be a boy, but this isn’t a Flaw.''
''HUSBANDS AND POLYGAMY''
''A woman has a fuller life once married, because she is able to travel while accompanied. Even female magi may ﬁnd it easier to have a man who might conceivably be a husband do much of the talking. Under Islamic law a man may have four wives at any one time, provided he treats them equally. Only''
''rich men can afford several wives in a culture where no wife may work outside the house (or at all, for wealthy women). On the other hand, many nobles have more than four partners. There are three main ways to have more than four partners. The ﬁrst is to just ignore the rule, which is a popular choice with kings. Concubines do not count toward the total: a man may have as many of those as he likes. Finally, a man may only have three wives at a time, but divorce only takes a minute. Some nobles keep a lot of women in their harem, marrying them as their sexual proclivities require and divorcing afterward. They never have more than four legal wives simultaneously, and never have sex out of wedlock. The vast majority of Islamic scholars think this is an abuse of the intentions, if not strictly the words, of the Qur’an. Jealous wives are as common in Arabic stories as evil stepmothers in European stories. Some magi have suggested that women who suddenly become vicious and violent when another wife becomes pregnant, ﬁnds treasure, or otherwise changes her status, are possessed by faeries or have been tempted by demons.''

==The Berbers==

''The Berbers are the original inhabitants of Mythic Africa. They have witnessed the invasion of many other races — Phoenicians, Romans, Visigoths, Greeks, and several waves of Arabs — but are still the dominant African culture. Closely allied to the Berbers are the Tuareg, a nomadic people of the Great Desert (see later).''

==Appearance==

''The Imazighen are a Mediterranean people, similar to Greeks or southern Italians in appearance, although their skin is usually more deeply weathered by the hot desert winds. They have an olive complexion and dark hair tones, although auburn and blond are not unknown.''
''Men wear a hooded woolen robe or tajellabiyt, with a wool cloak called an asilham for nighttime or in the mountains. Women veil themselves in a white cotton dress called a haik, and a headscarf called a tahruyt. If she might be seen by a man who is not a member of her family, the tahruyt is pulled over the face so that only the right eye is exposed. Women also have a ceremonial haik and tahruyt which is dyed indigo. This tahryut is embroidered with traditional symbols like those used in tattoos.''
''TATTOOS''
''Tattooing has a long history in Berber culture, despite the Islamic Hadith where tattoos are proscribed. Berber usage falls under aada or ‘normative practice’ and is permitted by local clerics. Amazigh women are far more likely to be tattooed than the men; it is generally accepted that women with tattoos are more beautiful than those without. The symbols used are passed down from mother to daughter, although inﬂuenced by personal preference. Women bear symbols called siyala on the face, neck, and chest. Siyala are marked in green, a holy color. A line from the lip to the chin is marked when a woman is married; and over time this''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Moors, Berbers, or Imazighen?==

''The term “Berber”derives from “barbari,” a term used by the ancient Greeks to describe the people of Africa. Despite its lack of general use, it is a handy English word to describe the people and the culture native to Mythic Africa. The Berbers refer to themselves as Imazighen (singular Amazigh), meaning “free men”; this is the origin of a Roman name for them, the Mazices. The Romans more generally called the Imazighen “Mauri,” from whence the Europeans get their term “Moor” which they apply indiscriminately to Berber and Arab alike. In this book we use the term “Berber” and “Amazigh” interchangeably, but reserve “Moor” for the Mauritanians.''

|}
''line is extended and embellished with crosses and palm fronds that indicate the number of children she has, and records family events and tragedies. She might also have her eyes outlined with dots (called “ant-tracks”), or mark her nose, cheeks, or brow with other simple symbols. Body markings are called ahadjam, and are usually more extensive and occur on both sexes, but are still more common on women. Designs on the back prevent and treat infertility, those on the breast enhance sensuality, those on the wrists and ankles protect against the evil eye, whereas those on the hands and feet are supposed to prevent possession by the jnun. A necklace tattoo might ring the neck bearing many potent symbols. A later insert describes some of the forms and purposes of traditional ahadjam. For special occasions, these symbols may be elaborated with tawzayt, temporary symbols marked with henna (orangebrown), saffron (yellow), or harquus (a black dye); such symbols are often elaborate, and require a specialist cosmetician called a neggafa to apply them. Some ngagef are magicians who endow these ceremonial tattoos with power.''

==Berber Culture==

''Berber society is nominally leaderless; indeed, they are united by a common resistance to the imposition of a centralized authority. Egalitarianism is a strong motivator of many Berber cultural traits; Berber villages, for example, have equal-sized houses — a rich man is not accorded any more space. Privacy and self-sufﬁciency are also very important to Berbers. It is considered shameful to buy milk, for example; it implies that the family cannot manage to support itself. Furthermore, excess should be freely given rather than sold.''
''GENDER ROLES''
''In Imazighen communities, men and women occupy entirely different social spaces. The man is responsible for everything occurring outside. Berber men are most often herders of''
''sheep and goats, which they graze on the tribal pasture. Berber men also take on trades that need to be outside, such as metalworking and butchery. Even simple tasks like going to market are performed by men. The grainstore is the exclusive province of Amazigh men; it is a matter of great scandal for a woman to be seen near one. The female space is found within the home. A Berber house is ruled by the wife or mother of the eldest male in the family; she is entirely responsible for the household economy and the behavior of those who live with her. Trades that take place inside are the task of women; this is principally the preparation of wool and associated trades such as weaving and dyeing. However, making pottery, baskets, any food-related trade, and even carpentry are women’s trades. The Amazigh woman is more likely to be literate than her husband: women teach each other to read and write while they work together at the loom or at the potter’s wheel. The local fountain is the women’s taboo place; it is deeply improper for a man to approach one. Despite the strict separation between men and women, the Imazighen are more permissive toward women than Arabs, in general. Monogamy is the norm, even though Islam permits the taking of up to four if a man is capable of supporting them.''

==The Village==

''The village (in Tamazight, thaddart) is the heart of Berber life. Where possible, Berber villages are sited on the summit of hills dominating a valley below. The slopes are covered with closely packed houses, each one stepped back against the hill, giving a pyramidal appearance to the whole village, with the minaret of the mosque forming the apex. In the Atlas Mountains, it is common to build the village into the hill by excavating a whole cave system. Above-ground Berber settlements grow by extending further down the hill, so the older families are at the top and the newer arrivals toward the bottom. Villages can be tiny, with just 50 or so houses,''
''but those near to trade routes can be huge — 1500 houses or more. In Berber towns and cities, there is a physical separation between male space and female space. The streets are covered with vaults and are frequented almost exclusively by men, who line the dark streets with benches. Above, the vaults and roofs form a network of communications for the town’s women, unseen by the men except for ﬂeeting glimpses when they cross gaps between houses. Women learn to be light on their feet and good jumpers, although there are ladders and bridges for the less agile. Each house is two or three stories, with a terrace on the ﬂat roof. The house contains the family’s worldly goods; livestock are kept on the ground ﬂoor, other possessions in the family room above them. The uppermost story usually has a drying room for grain and fruit. Only the upper stories have windows, to maintain privacy. Three or four houses cluster around a courtyard that has a single entrance to the street; these are occupied by the families of brothers or cousins. Several of these clusters make up a ward, or thakherroubt, which are often based along occupational lines. Each ward has its own communal cemetery, threshing room, and grain store. Mixed wards occupied by outsiders — Arabs or Jews, mainly — are found near the edge of the settlement. Wards are arranged in concentric rings due to the way Berber villages grow. Each ward has its own council, or tajmait, composed of representatives from each family or lineage and presided over by an elected ofﬁcial called the amin. All adult men are represented in the meetings, and must attend them or else pay a ﬁne. Women are not permitted at the tajmait. The tajmait makes decisions on communal life, passes judgments, and issues ﬁnes for petty misdemeanors and unacceptable behavior. Money raised from the ﬁnes is spent on public works, the labor provided by the men of each ward as a form of taxation. Families with no representative have all decisions made for them by the tajmait as a whole until a suitable marriage can be arranged. The strongest penalty levied by the tajmait is excommunication: the offender is literally excluded from all communication; no-one will speak with him, trade with''
''him, or offer daughters for marriage. The most learned women of a ward form a group called the tala, named after the ward’s fountain where they meet. It is taboo for men to approach the fountain; this is a uniquely female space equivalent to the tajmait. This group’s principle function is to care for the bodies of the dead, but they also act as a kind of police force. They act on anonymous denunciations and take steps to control private behavior (unlike the tajmait, which controls public behavior). Accusations are investigated, and if necessary the tala decides on penances and punishments, which are enforced through pressure put on sons and husbands by their womenfolk. They provide counsel for those who''
''ask, and can, on occasion, alter the customs of the community entirely.''

==The Tribe==

''Berber villages occupy relatively equal pieces of territory with clearly demarcated boundaries between them. A group of villages — two to eight, sometimes more — within a given area forms a tribe or ‘arsh. Most trees and all vegetables grown on irrigated plots belong to the individual, whereas plow land put to grain crops if the rains come early belongs to the village. Pasture land is usually the property of the tribe as a whole. The tribe typically labors as''
''a group to terrace new land in preparation for vegetable crops, and to build the underground channels that bring the water. Members of a tribe trade with each other directly; Berbers do not hold markets, because this implies trade with outsiders, which is against Berber ideals of inviolability. The occasional peddler is tolerated, selling jewels, cosmetics, or other things which cannot be sourced locally. Berber men attend markets held outside the tribe’s lands; these tend to occur between tribes that specialize in different areas, for example between predominantly pastoral tribes and agricultural ones Tribes sometimes join to form a confederation, or thaqbilt. These confederations make up the three chief Berber “super tribes” of the Zenata, Masmuda, and Sanhaja.''

==Berber Beliefs and Folklore==

''Berbers are often considered superstitious by the Arabs of the coastal cities, an accusation that is not entirely unfounded. Islam was brought to Berbers by the Arabs, and it has always suffered amongst the Imazighen from that association. While most Berbers are nominally Muslim, their religious practices have pervasive influences from their pagan roots. This is most prominent in the Berbers of the interior, amongst whom is the greatest preponderance of pagan Berber tribes. Muslim Berbers are mostly followers of Ibadi Islam (see insert), and have little interest in persecuting others for their religious beliefs. Christianity has a minor following amongst Imazighen. It is most common amongst those who inhabit the coastal regions of the Tell, and adopted the faith from successive waves of Roman, Vandal, and Byzantine settlers. Few Berbers are overtly pagan, although many hold traditional beliefs that do not sit well with Islam. The mountain tribes are most likely to hold to the ancient ways and worship the same gods that they did before even the Carthaginians brought their''

==Kharijite and Ibadite Islam==

''Kharijism was the earliest religious sect of Islam. They were supporters of the fourth caliph Ali (656–661), until he submitted to arbitration over his right to the caliphate. Some of his followers withdrew to east of the Tigris and thus earned the name khariji, seceders. The Kharijites became increasingly fanatical, and spawned several sub-sects, both moderate and extreme. They saw themselves as the only true Muslims, and sought to establish a community where the Qur’an was the sole authority. Their core belief was that anyone who committed a major sin ceased to be a Muslim and must be expelled from the Faith, and killed as an unbeliever unless he repented. Faith was justiﬁed only with correct belief and right action. The Kharijis rejected the dynastic approach to the caliphate. Rather, any irreproachable believer could be caliph, and any caliph could be deposed if his actions did not conform to religious law. Another basic principle of Kharijite Islam was jihad, which they saw as the sixth pillar of Islam. It was the obligation of all true Muslims to use the sword in order to establish truth. Khariji saw it as their religious duty to rebel against any authority who fell below their high standard of behavior. Finally, Khariji were radically egalitarian, accepting all believers as equal regardless of class or''
''origin. Even non-Muslims are treated fairly, as long as they do not violate the word of the Qur’an. Khariji communities constantly rebelled against Umayyads and Abbasid rulers, whom they saw as false caliphs. They proved popular amongst new converts in both Persia and Africa who resented not being treated as equal by the Arab elite. Whilst Kharijism itself is now extinct in Africa, its core doctrines persist in the more moderate Ibadi sect. Ibadis do not believe in violent rebellion, and are more conciliatory toward other Muslims than their parent sect. Ibadis still consider sinners (including non-Ibadi Muslims) to be capable of repentance, although deserving of hostility. The religious elders and religious scholars (the Mashayekh) of Ibadi communities elect an Imam to promote good and prevent evil, and to be supreme military leader and judge. The imam’s rule is absolute while he conforms to religious law; if the Mashayekh become aware of failure to adhere strictly to the Qur’an they can remove him. Chief amongst the Mashayekh are the ‘Azzaba (those who have retired), who lead religious orders. Ibadism opposes Suﬁsm but accepts some mystic principles such as the baraka of great leaders. In the 13th century most Berbers are Ibadi Muslims, although the ruling Almohads are predominantly Sunni.''
''gods to this land. These three religions sit poorly side by side; most villages are either Muslim, Christian, or pagan, and the majority of that community follow the dominant belief. The chief exception is that the settuten are nearly always pagan, regardless of the prevailing faith of their community; if their wrong beliefs are overlooked by the imam or priest it is because of the service they can provide for the village. This willful ignorance has its limits.''
''THE GODS OF THE IMAZIGHEN''
''Pagan Berbers honor many gods, most of them personiﬁcations of nature. Their principle deities are Tafuyt, harsh goddess of the sun and Ayyur, god of the moon and sacriﬁces. Gurzil is the bull-headed god of war; his image has been carried into battle to incur his blessing on the enterprise. Anzar is the god of rain, a vital deity to the desert-dwelling people. The goddess of both fertility and death is Dunnit (“The World”), known as Tanit to the Carthaginians and Neith to the Egyptians; her name recalls that of the First Mother of the World (see later). The Berbers may also worship local deities of relevance to their villages, such as Baccax the god of caves and Lilleu, a river god. In the town of Badja, near Tunis, a stone engraving shows seven ancient Berber gods known as the Dii Mauri. Seated on a bench, they represent Bonchar in the center with a staff as the lord of the group. To his right, the goddess Vihina sits with an infant at her feet, representing home and childbirth. To the right of Vihina is Macurgum, who holds a scroll and a serpent entwined staff, the god of health. On Bonchar’s left stands enigmatic Varsissima, a goddess of secrets. Left of her, the goddess Matilam presides over the sacrifice of a boar. Standing at either end of the carving are Macurtan, holding a bucket as the god of the waters, and Iunam, god of the moon. Beneath the gathering is the Latin inscription, “salutares” (redemptory), “immortales” (immortal), and “augusti” (exalted). The Dii Mauri were mostly subsumed by the ar''
''rival of the Romans and their temples. Beyond the larger towns and the coast, Berbers treated these entities as jealous and capricious genius locii, offering them small sacriﬁces in cave shrines in exchange for noninterference or even minor aid in the form of plaguing one’s enemies. This practice persists in small communities to the present, but it is more a form of placation than worship, as village elders seek to protect their residents. Whether the Dii Mauri are listening, or smothered by the Divine, is another matter entirely. Pagan Imazighen also honor their dead ancestors as gods, and treat tombs as holy places. They swear oaths by placing their hands on a tomb, and may sleep within to receive dreams from the gods. In pagan communities, each head of the household is responsible for conducting the rites honoring the village’s gods, whereas the chief woman of the house is responsible for observing the family’s gods. The settuten are the closest thing to a formal priesthood since they are dedicated to the god of sacriﬁces. Like other pagan gods, most Berber gods are associated with the Faerie Realm.''
''YEMMA-T N DUNNIT AND AWETTUF''
''In the beginning there was just a man and a woman, and they lived beneath the earth in the sterile and dark Netherworld. The woman was called Yemma-t n Dunnit, the First Mother of the World, and she was a powerful witch. They had ﬁfty sons and ﬁfty daughters, who climbed through holes onto the light, fertile world above; these were the ﬁrst men. Initially, Yemma-t n Dunnit was a beneﬁcent (or at least, neutral) creatrix; she created the sun and moon, the stars, and all animals and plants. Having run out of things to create, she began to create destruction, and her evil grew. She instituted eclipses, dispute and discord, and even death. She is responsible for the hardships of the Berbers, while their enemies the Franks and Arabs prosper. The Yemma-t n Dunnit is the source of all evil counsel, malicious gossip, and hurtful lies. Many of her creations bear the marks of her evil: for example, the''
''porcupine has the wood splinters from her destroyed spindle on its back, and the tortoise was originally a calf who was crushed between her millstones. The moon god Ayyur is her son and Tafuyt the sun is her daughter. The evil of the Yemma-t n Dunnit is opposed by Awettuf the ant. Awettuf is the wise counselor of mankind, and the husband of Tafuyt. While he is not himself a creator, his advice enabled mankind to make the best of creation. Thus, the First Mother of the World created sheep, but Awettuf showed mankind how to use the meat for food and the wool for clothing. He demonstrated the growing of grain and making of bread, instituted rituals and sacriﬁce, and convinced the wild bulls to be domesticated by men.''
''THE NETHERWORLD''
''The Netherworld is an invisible world of shadows on the other side of the human, civilized world. It is the re''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Christians of the Desert==

''Swathed in their litham veils, carrying their long takouba swords, thin lances and cross-decorated shields of gazelle hide, Tuareg warriors sometimes appear similar to Frankish knights, albeit mounted on dromedary camels. Some Arabic writers refer to the nomads as Nasara al-Sahra (Arabic: “Nazarenes of the Desert”) from a belief that that the Tuareg are lost Christians adapted to life in the deep desert. Characters may hear tales using this terminology and seek out the nomads, perhaps believing they are representatives of the mythic Christian king Prester John. Unfortunately, the Tuareg are entirely unChristian in their behavior and will just as soon heartlessly rob and beat any explorers seeking their aid unless presented with goods of value: camels, slaves or clothing. Will the characters be stranded in a forsaken realm of sand?''

|}
''verse of the human world: mountains are deep pits, and ravines form cliffs across the landscape. Rivers of water cross the sky. The black sheep eat coal, and the black goats give black milk. When it is night in the mundane world, it is day in the Netherworld, for this is where Tafuyt retreats at night; similarly when the moon is not in the sky, the Berbers say that Ayyur is visiting his mother.''
''The Netherworld is peopled by spirits of the dead, hideous giants like the teryelen (ogresses), and dwarfs that swarm everywhere like ants, with whom they share kinship. Pagan Imazighen believe that mankind was born in the Netherworld, but climbed up through a hole in the sky into the mundane world above. When they die, they return to the Netherworld, but''
''they are not entirely cut off from the mundane world. A network of communications between the human world and the Netherworld exists, through tombs, wells, caves, and occasional iron gates built by jnun. Snakes in particular are the messengers between the Netherworld and ours, and should be treated with respect less they speak ill of you to your ancestors.''

==The Tagelmoust==

''The tagelmoust (Arabic: litham) is the dark blue veil worn constantly by Tuareg men. Composed of separate pieces of Sudanese cloth dyed indigo (see below), the veil is wrapped around the head to reveal only the eyes. The veil acts not only a practical protection against the sun and sand but is also central to the sense of identity of a male Targui — the Tuareg refer to themselves in Tamahak as Kel Tagelmoust, “The People of the Veil.” Many Arab detractors however believe that the Tuareg use the litham to mask their extreme ugliness! Each veil is unique in hue, although relatives and members of the same tribe usually have closely matched colors. The folding style of the veil denotes each Targui’s relative status within the tribe with nobles generally covering more of their face. Minor adjustments of the veil during conversation can reﬂect an individual’s mood or unstated opinion. A Targui warrior receives his ﬁrst veil in a ceremony overseen by a member of the ineslemen tribe on passing into adulthood at age eighteen and only removes it when replacing it with a new veil, reﬂected by the Vow (constantly wear litham veil) Minor Flaw. The basic litham veil of a mature Targui warrior is enchanted using hedge magic by a ineslemen magician aligned to the Magic Realm with a Level 25 Rego Auram effect that protects against sandstorms, which has Duration: Sun and 2 uses per day, effectively resulting in permanent protection against the conditions of the nomad’s homeland. An additional effect customarily woven into the veil is designed to provide protection against evil spirits — once per day, the wearer can invoke a Ward against Spirits of the Desert with Penetration ranging from between 5 and 20, depending on the status of the individual.''
''Tuareg men wear their veils constantly, not even removing them to eat or sleep after the age of 25. As the veils carry constant magical effects, this grants at least 2 Warping Points associated with the Magic (or Divine) Realm per year and older warriors have a Warping score of at least 1. By the eighth year of wearing a magical veil constantly, Tuareg males are plagued with frequent headaches and suffer from either the Short Attention Span or Poor Concentration Minor Flaw (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 50). By the age of forty, a Targui warrior who has worn his veil constantly has a Warping score of 3, which rises to 5 by the age of ﬁfty. Traveling through high strength Magic auras in the deep desert, passing through Magic regiones or exposure to other powerful magical effects can accelerate this process and cause the gain of additional characteristic Flaws at higher Warping scores. Gradually the deep indigo dye penetrates into their whole skin and, as their Warping score increases, they gain characteristic Flaws and Virtues following ArM5, pages 167– 168, as detailed below:''
''Warping Score Effect  2  Short Attention    Span or Poor    Concentration Flaw  3  Disﬁgured (deep   indigo skin)  5  Minor Supernatural   Virtue*  6  Wanderlust  7  Magical Air  8  Blatant Magical Air * Either Desert Regio Network, Dowsing (water), Lesser Immunity: Thirst, Second Sight or Wilderness Sense. Most Tuareg strongly believe their''
''veils actually help prevent their headaches rather than being the cause and suspect that their malady is a curse of the settut or malevolent jnun. To offset the Flaws gained from Warping, older Tuareg progressively seek to acquire more magically potent litham, amulets or other hedge magic items with enchantments offsetting the effects of Minor Flaws due to the Targui’s frequent headaches. Other minor magical effects mimicking the Minor Supernatural Virtues listed above are also sometimes be woven into the fabric at the time of creation. Unfortunately, the constant wearing of an assortment of minor magical items may actually increase the rate of accumulation of Warping points and lead to further negative effects.''
''VEILED WIZARDS AND HAJI''
''Male Tuareg wizards such as assehar (sahir), imhergi (cunning-folk), ineslemen (murabitin) and ineden (blacksmiths) do not suffer this style of Warping, but do Warp at an accelerated rate through wearing their veils constantly. Those cognizant magicians that realize the baneful effect of their magical headgear often substitute mundane indigo cloth and rely on their own magical protections. Others abandon wearing the litham altogether, substituting the equivalent of the Judged Unfairly Flaw for their Vow Flaw. Only haji, those infrequent Tuareg who have completed a pilgrimage to Mecca, are exempt from the requirement to wear a veil — their sacred status replaces the need to wear the litham and they exchange their Vow for the Pious Minor Personality Flaw instead.''
''The Netherworld is part of the Faerie Realm, although sections of it lie within Faerie regiones and can be more easily visited.''

==The People of the Veil==

''“The scorpion and the Tuareg are the only enemies you meet in the desert”  old Arab saying''
''The nomadic Tuareg (Arabic: “abandoned by god,” singular: Targui) are a collection of aggressive nomad tribes that roam the deep expanses of the Great Desert centered around the Ahaggar and Aïr massifs (Tuareg: Atakor and Ayăr respectively). They instead refer to themselves as the Kel Tagelmoust (Tuareg: “the People of the Veil”) or Kel Tamahak (Tuareg: “the People who speak Tamahak”).''

==Tuareg Culture==

''“Pillage is our work”  Tuareg saying''
''The verb iohagh means both “he is free” and “he pillages” — the concepts of brigandage and liberty are so inseparable to a Targui warrior that they have no concept of the plight of the victims of their raiding. Even a negotiated ghefara or “pardon” for protection means little to a traveling merchant as the raiders are just as likely to rob a caravan that passes out of their territory on the grounds that they are no longer under the speciﬁc band’s protection. Tuareg consider only camels, clothing, slaves, and weapons to have any signiﬁcant value. A Tuareg male noble’s worth is measured in the number of camels he owns and status displays amongst other men are reﬂected to a coquettish extreme by the amount of clothing worn. The more exotic and colourful the clothing a male Targui wears, the more status it conveys, regardless of the impracticality of multiple layers of heavy cloth in the bak''
''ing desert sun. The most famous item of Tuareg clothing is the tamelghoust or litham, an indigo dyed veil worn by all adult males except those rare Tuareg who have completed the hajj, or pilgrimage to Mecca. These nomads take little care about food or hygiene and are purported to eat almost exclusively the milk of sheep and camels, supplemented with roots or grains foraged from the sands or other foodstuffs begged from others. Nobles never ask but rather demand food in the form of mouna or “tribute” from their serfs or anyone unfortunate enough to be regarded as their inferior, and to a noble Targui, all but other noble Targui are inferior. Many Tuareg men are illiterate but all Tuareg speak Tamahak, the southernmost dialect of Tamazight common to these nomads but distinct from that of the settled northern tribes.''

==Tuareg Society==

''The basic unit of Tuareg society is the “drum group” or clan (tewsit), a collection of families summoned by an amghar or war leader’s large hemispherical war drum (ettebel). The larger societal unit of a Kel or confederation is a loose series of tribes (tawsheten) bound together under an amenoukal, nominally equivalent to a greater chieftain. Although respected, an amenoukal acts more as an impartial adjudicator for his confederation, albeit one who can be ignored without signiﬁcant consequence. There are several well known Kel located within the southern parts of the Great Desert:''
''• Kel Ajjer (found near the oasis of Ghat and the Tassili n Ajjer plateau) • Kel Ahaggar (overlord confederation of the Ahaggar massif) • Kel Ayr (dominate the Air massif) • Kel Owey (roam along the southeastern mountains and the Fezzan road) • Kel Ifoghas (settled around the Adrar Ifoghas massif)''
''In addition, the two Iwellemmeden confederations (the western Kel Ataram and eastern Kel Denneg) and the Kel Geres dwell further south in the deeper''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Tuareg Story Seeds==

''The customs of the Tuareg can lead to many stories.''
''THE DEEP TUAREG''
''The enforced isolation of the elder Tuareg males due to the effects of Flaws gained from Warping often leads them deeper and deeper into the desert where they may fall prey to the attentions of the Great Sahara daimon known as the Hunger (alJu’ in Arabic). The more foolish are tempted to bargain with the spirit in return for release from their afﬂictions. At a minimum, these elder Tuareg become dark Spirit Votaries and suffer the Servant of the Desert Major Flaw. More commonly they are transformed into a unique form of undead Magic Humans with a Might Score known as Dessicated Men.''
''INDIGO DYE''
''This blue dye with the color of European woad was once known as indicum to the Romans. It is produced from several natural sources, all of which must be imported by the nomads from beyond the southern desert, from Europe or from as far aﬁeld as mythical Hind. Indigo dyed clothing denotes high status among the Tuareg and the dye is a vital component in the manufacture of the traditional litham veil of an adult Tuareg male. Any clothing dyed with indigo is considered a valued commodity. Magi are able to reproduce colors comparatively easily using Hermetic magic and may intervene in the dye trade from as far away as Europe or supply cloth to local Tuareg tribes when seeking allies while journeying through the desert regions.''

|}
''desert and perhaps beyond, although whether these tribes are composed of mundane humans, Magic-kin, Magic Humans or Faeries playing out the nomad raider role is uncertain.''
''TUAREG CASTES''
''The rulers of Tuareg society are the imajeghen (singular: amajegh), the nobles who lead raids and expect to be served by all other humans, but are bound by an unusual code of honor equivalent to the Dutybound Flaw. A Tuareg noble has the equivalent of the Knight or Muslim Emir Virtue, but with a focus on hunting and travel as well as military activities. Equivalents for greater nobility amongst the Tuareg exist — an amghar is equivalent to a Landed Noble or Muslim ‘Muqta, and an amenoukal is equivalent to a Great Noble (see Lords of Men, page 31). The amenoukal of the Kel Ahaggar is equivalent in power to a European Duke, although much of his power is nominal at the peripheries of the Tuareg lands. Noted for their remarkable arrogance and sense of racial superiority, Tuareg nobles commonly possess the following Virtues and Flaws: Fury (not respected as superior), Obsession (appearance), Overconﬁdent, Oversensitive (to disrespect or lack of grooming), Piercing Gaze, Proud, Self Conﬁdent, Social Handicap (Superiority complex), Strong Willed, Wrathful. Beneath the ruling nobles are the imghad (singular: amghid), a vassal caste who comprise the bulk of the warriors and pasture the tribe’s goats and camels and act as the common soldiery on raids. Some tribes such as the Kel Ulli (Tuareg: “the goat people”) are composed almost entirely of these dependent pastoralists. The ineslemen are the religious caste of the Tuareg. Descended from the families of Tuareg marabouts, their neutral stance allows them to mediate between feuding tribes and individuals. Their leaders and other exceptional individuals may have magical powers or abilities reﬂecting the baraka associated with their holy ancestors. Tuareg ineslemen usually lack the Dream Interpretation powers of their northern counterparts and substitute Purity''

==Tuareg Raiders==

''Tuareg nobles typically lead a band of one to two-dozen lesser tribesmen from the imghad caste riding camels. Each is equipped with a lance and a takouba, the Tuareg longsword. Some bands are accompanied by disguised Tuareg settuten or even secretly led by one of the deep desert witches. The leaders of the more successful bands have an uncanny ability to ﬁnd their way through the trackless deserts and escape though hidden entrances to the regiones that cross the wastelands.''
''ALJILANI AG IBRAHIM, A TARGUI AMAJEGH''
''This noble has been designed for use as a starting Companion but requires 2 more Minor Virtues to balance and may choose up to one more Minor Virtue if balanced by an additional Minor Flaw. A more experienced raider leader may have additional martial skills, carry more protective amulets, or have additional Virtues & Flaws gained through Warping.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –1, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 37 (37) Decrepitude: 0 (0) Warping: 3 (8) Conﬁdence: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Amghar (Knight); Inspirational, Lightning Reﬂexes, Long-Winded, Self-Conﬁdent, Tough, Strong Willed; Proud (Major); Infamous, Poor Hearing, Oversensitive (shown lack of respect), Vow (constantly wear litham veil). Additional Virtues & Flaws*: Desert Regio Network; Disﬁgured (indigo skin), Short Attention Span * from Warping due to constantly wearing magical litham veil Personality Traits: Arrogant +3, Proud +3, Oversensitive +3 Reputations: 2 Merciless raider (local) Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +3, Defense +2, Damage +1 Kick (mounted): Init –1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +4 Takoba & Aghar (long sword & shield):''
''Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +7 Takoba & Aghar (mounted): Init +2, Attack +14, Defense +13, Damage +7 Allagh (lance, mounted): Init +2, Attack +13, Defense +8, Damage +6 Soak: +14 (Stamina, Tough, full chain armor) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (camels), Arabic 3 (demands), Area Lore: Ahaggar 2 (history), Athletics 2 (leap), Awareness 2 (ambushes), Bargain 3 (beg food), Brawl 2 (kick from horseback), Etiquette 2 (Tuareg), Folk Ken 1 (soldiers), Great Weapon 4 (lance), Guile 2 (spot lies), Hunt 2 (gazelle), Intrigue 2 (alliances), Leadership 2 (rallying troops), Ride 4 (battle), Single Weapon 5 (long sword & shield), Stealth 2 (ambushes), Survival 3 (Desert), Tamazight 5 (Tamahak). Powers: Brave the Sandstorm, ReAu 25, Init 0; Range: Personal, Duration: Sun, 2 uses per day. This effect protects the wearer from sandstorms by repelling the breeze that carries the dust. Ward Against the Kel Asuf, ReVi 15, Init 0; Range: Personal, Duration: Sun, 2 uses per day, Penetration+10. Repels minor Faerie spirits of the deserts as a Ward Against Faeries of the Desert.  Equipment: full chain armor, aghar (gazelle-hide heater shield), litham veil*, takoba (long sword), allagh (lance), wooden camel saddle**, jeweled amulet*** * see Powers above for effects enchanted into the Targui’s indigo veil ** has been enchanted by an inenden to provide +3 to Ride rolls for one scene or three minutes *** has been enchanted by a inennden witch to grant Wilderness Sense 3 (desert) Encumbrance: 3 (9)''
''instead. They lack the power to Create Vis but may have access additional Holy Powers such as Adjuration and Wonders. Not all magicians from an ineslemen tribe are aligned to the Divine Realm — Infernal-aligned equivalents exist and some practitioners of other hedge traditions aligned to the Magic or Faerie realms may pass off their powers as baraka, masquerading as holy men to gain similar social beneﬁts. The eklan are the lowest caste, a class of black-skinned serfs who work the limited agricultural holdings of the Tuareg nobility. Similar to the Haratan of the northern Berbers, these workers are little more than true slaves, although the latter are referred to as abid and are universally drawn from blackskinned races. See the Berber culture section earlier for further details. The inenden are a pariah caste of wandering craftsmen. Believed to have Jewish origins, they practice a different form of magic from the settuten and have the Outcast Minor Flaw.''
''INESLEMEN''
''Minor Virtue, Social Status This character is a member of one of the designated religious tribes of the Tuareg and is therefore accorded some authority over disputes and immunity from the usual feudal demands of the nobles. He may purchase Theology: Islam, Islamic Law and (Realm) Lore during character generation and gains an additional 50 XP to spend on these Abilities. The character begins with the Minor Flaw Noncombatant, which does not yield any points for buying Virtues.''
''TUAREG WOMEN''
''Tuareg women are more respected than even their northern Berber counterparts and occupy a social position unequalled in other Islamic countries. Unlike the menfolk, these women disdain the veil and freely voice their opinions — many hold a prominent place in the leadership or counsel of each tribe and inheritance amongst the noble caste is matrilineal as “the stomach holds the child.” After marriage, a Targui woman is permitted a number of male friends who may visit her when her husband is out raiding, although such meeting rarely result in consummation. Tuareg women are so respected that when a band raids another tribe, the male warriors may be put to ﬂight or killed but the women and children are not molested and left with sufﬁcient equipment to survive — only the slaves and luxury items such as camels, gold, salt and ﬁne clothing are taken! Female Tuareg are generally better educated and mothers are responsible for passing down knowledge of their unusual script, Tiﬁnagh or Tidinar — the letters being similar to the ancient Libyan alphabet but particularly noted for being written in a random direction of writing rather than the right to left order of Arabic. They are also more musical in nature, than their men, singing traditional folk songs accompanied by either the anzad (a single stringed violin) or the tende, a small hand drum. Compared to the traditional medieval Arabic concept of beauty as proportional to the degree of obesity, Tuareg women are tall and elegant with their wrists frequently adorned with ﬁne bracelets or exceptional examples of embroidery and leatherwork. This contrasts to their clothing, which unlike the men is often poorly kept, dirty and comparatively revealing compared to the heavily swathed northern women who are inﬂuenced by the modesty dictated by the Arab dominated culture.''

==Tuareg Magic==

''Tuareg magic, like that of their northern Berber cousins, is split along gender lines, with a dominance of female practitioners across the different castes. Settuten are rarer than amongst other Berber tribes and women that practice forms of magic other that of the settuten are not uncommon. Male practitioners tend to be less powerful overall, unless created as marabouts or impostors from other hedge magic traditions that belong to one the ineslemen tribes. See Chapter 4: The Realms of Mythic Africa for further details.''
''TUAREG OF HERMES, TUAREG OF SULEIMAN?''
''Recent history provides examples of outcast Tuareg sahira who have escaped the wrath of the settuten and at least one sahir of the Order of Suleiman claims to be of mixed Tuareg heritage. In the 11th century, a Tuareg of the inenden caste is recorded as joining House Ex Miscellanea but his semi-Hermetic lineage appears to have disappeared or been absorbed into a small Muslim lineage within House Verditius. A Tuareg magus may provide an interesting archetype for either a player character or an antagonist in an African based saga.''

==The Banu Khalida==

''Out in front rides a Saracen, Abisme; King Marsile has no greater villain in his company, A man of evil traits and mighty treachery, He does not believe in God. ~ The Song of Roland, laisse 114''
''The great French epic The Song of Roland speaks of a very different variety of Moor than is found in most of Africa. This chanson de geste was written in the eleventh century, but tells of events in the eighth century, when the Moors had overrun the Visigothic kingdoms of Iberia and now set their eyes on the lands of the Franks. The poem recounts the attempt of twelve men to delay a hundred thousand Moors in the Pyrenean Roncevaux Pass until Charlemagne could arrive with his main force. The Moors described in the poem are sinister beings aligned with dark powers; many of''
''them have bestial characteristics or are said to have unnatural size, supernatural strength, or the power to enslave the minds of men. These are the Banu Khalida. This section presents a legendary people who fulﬁll the expectations of Mythic European prejudice about Moors. They could be villainous antagonists for the characters, lurking in distant lands and brewing their evil against the race of men. Travelers might come across the cities of the Banu Khalida by following trade routes across the desert. The Twelve Cities could even provide a source for a player character who is struggling to overcome his dark past.''
''BACKGROUND''
''Legend has it that the Moors of the Banu Khalida are descended from Khalid ibn Yazid, the adopted son of the Kahina. He was a traitor to the core: born an Arab, he rejected Islam to spare his life and professed Berber''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Unholy Trinity==

''Medieval European Christians have many misconceptions about Islam, perhaps the most common of which is that Muslims worship an unholy trinity composed of three deities known as Mahound, Termagant and Apollyon. This misunderstanding is in part due to early contact with the Banu Khalida in Iberia. In Ars Magica Fifth Edition the three deities are demons of the Order of False Gods (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 37), who seek to foment hostility between Christians and Muslims. They may be found operating anywhere within Mythic Africa, Europe or the Middle East, whispering their vicious lies into the ears of any who might listen. Like most False Gods, the demons usually take forms that will appeal to their listeners. In their original forms, though, they appear as follows: The demon Mahound takes the form of a grotesque parody of a monotheistic prophet, clothing itself in ﬁne robes of green silk and gold, and leering at those around it. It has immense ears, intended to mock the fact that such prophets heard the divine revelation. Termagant takes the form of a hag with an incredibly wrinkled face and bulging eyes, literally spitting venom at any who oppose it. It has sharp, jagged ﬁngernails with which it claws at its opponents’ eyes. Apollyon appears on ﬁrst glance to be a twisted parody of the Graeco-Roman Apollo, a hunchbacked, hideously ugly blond man with a lyre, dressed only in an oversized, ill-ﬁtting golden cloak. The cloak drips with acid and the lyre produces jangling discords that set teeth on edge and paralyze the senses.''

|}
''paganism to ingratiate himself with the Kahina. He later tricked his foster brothers into becoming the captives of the Arab invaders. Khalid later appears, once again claiming to be a Muslim, leading a Berber army into Iberia with his apostate brothers. Khalid’s sons were amongst the survivors of the battle at Roncevaux Pass through base cowardice, and retained their territory in al-Andalus to become viceroys on the Iberian Peninsula. Their descendants, the Banu Khalida, were never amongst the more powerful taifa princes, but they navigated the delicate rivalries through secret alliances, clever marriages, and demonic assistance. The coming of the Almoravids was a major blow to the Banu Khalida power base. They had survived by keeping the factions ﬁghting each other, but a single Almoravid ruler enforcing a strict adherence to Islam was contrary to their way of controlling politics from behind the throne. The''
''Banu Khalida migrated en masse back to Mythic Africa, carving out a realm for themselves in southern Mauritania, beyond Almoravid inﬂuence. Here they still lurk, in the bled es-Siba, the “land of dissidence,” using their hellgotten powers to build a land of plenty on the edge of the torrid zone.''
''CULTURE''
''The Banu Khalida have a caste system that reﬂects their mixed ancestry. The Hassane are ruling warrior caste descended via Arab bloodlines from Khalid the Apostate. Below them are the Zawiya clerical caste, who gain protection from the Hassane in return for religious services and payment of a tributary tax. Subordinate to both Hassane and Zawiya are the Znaga, who are the laboring caste; this includes specialist professions such as the mraguen (ﬁshermen), mallemin (blacksmiths), and igawen (poets and praise-singers).''
''They must also pay tribute, and are forbidden from bearing arms. The Zawiya and Znaga have Berber origins, mostly from the Zenata tribe. The three upper castes are collectively called the bidan (“white”) castes, and are supported by the lower two castes who are black-skinned. The ‘Abid are the slave caste at the bottom of Banu Khalida society, and the Haratan are the freed slaves who form the bulk of the bureaucracy and army. Most bidan — even the commoner Znaga caste — have at least one house slave, and rich Hassani might own hundreds of ‘Abid and employ dozens of Haratan. The arrogance of the Banu Khalida is such that they believe they have total control over the lower castes, and for the most part this is true. Despite the designation of ‘bidan’ for the upper castes, skin color is no real determinant of caste. There are ebony-skinned members of the bidan just as there are pale ‘Abid and Haratan. The former come from high''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds: The Banu Khalida==

''A whole culture of diabolists is a rich source of stories.''
''A LOST TREASURE RETURNS''
''A valuable possession of the characters or their patron that went missing years ago reappears in the possession of a prominent local. The merchant from whom he bought it swears that he received it in legitimate trade. Investigations (or divinations) lead the characters through a chain of buying and selling back to the Twelve Cities. The possession was originally stolen using demonic powers to summon wealth. This is a good way to bring the Banu Khalida to the attention of the characters.''
''SLAVE REVOLT''
''For some years now, Islam has been spreading clandestinely through the ‘Abid of several cities. An Ibadi imam from the north has been teaching the Word of the Prophet, and the slaves have become aware that it is within their hands''
''to make the change. The characters meet an escaped slave who is trying to free his kinsman from Khalidi bondage.''
''INVASION''
''A hitherto unheard of coalition of three emirs threatens to destabilize the delicate power balance of the Twelve Cities. Under Termagant’s inﬂuence, they seek to raise an army to wage war against the Almohads to the north. Despite urging from their demoness patron, the emirs are exercising caution. They have dispatched spies into Almohad territory looking for defensive weaknesses; and if they ﬁnd none, to create some. The characters might foil the plans of one of these sorcery-enhanced spies, and become embroiled in the plots that threaten their homeland.''
''THE FOURTH ESTATE''
''The emir of Malprimis has been corrupted by a fourth False God, Baal-Peor (Realms of Power: the Infernal, pages 50–51). The Lord of Filth lacks any subtlety, yet still poses a threat to the Unholy Trinity’s monopoly on the souls of the Banu Khalida. Through Zawiya intermediates they manipulate outsiders (that is, the characters) into uncovering and destroying Malprimis’s dark worship.''
''TWICE-WON GOLD''
''A common tactic to keep the Hassane occupied is to trade gold with foreign merchants, and hiring out Haratan guards under the command of a Hassane scion. As the merchants return north, they are certain to be attacked by “bandits” — actually another band of Khalida. Whichever Hassane wins takes the gold back to the Twelve Cities. The presence of the characters amongst the merchant train might well ruin this scheme.''

|}
''caste breeding with their slaves; such children inherit the higher caste if recognized by their parent, and suffer no stigma from skin color. White lower caste members derive from slaves taken or bought from the north, often European in origin. The Banu Khalida have their own language; they used Punic as a secret language during the taifa period, and now use it as their main language, although now cross-fertilized with Arabic and Tamazight. The Zawiya are taught Arabic, and many Hassane receive a formal education in that language as well. Znaga involved in trade may well speak some Tamazight. The Banu Khalida live in twelve cities named after the twelve peers of King Marsile who opposed the twelve peers of Charlemagne: Aelroth, Balaguer, Chernubles, Corsalis, Escremiz, Estorgans, Estramariz, Falsaron, Malprimis, Margariz, Moraine, and Turgis. They are placed just one''
''day’s journey from each other, with paved roads between to facilitate travel. Each of the cities is set in an oasis in the midst of a stony desert. The buildings are made from red clay baked hard in the sun, and are arranged around a central plaza. The oasis provides water for the nearby ﬁelds, which grow millet, dates, and forage for livestock. The population of these cities consists of three to six extended families each of Hassane and Zawiya, a dozen families of Znaga, ﬁve hundred Haratan (of whom a quarter to a half are soldiers), maybe two thousand ‘Abid. One of the Hassane families is dominant over the others, and is headed by the emir who is the absolute ruler of the city.''
''RELIGION''
''Khalidi culture does not appear particularly pious: they lack overt demonstrations of faith, they do not utter familiar prayers and blessings with their speech, and their mosques are often plain and poorly maintained. To outsiders they explain that their faith is a personal and private matter. Those questioning a Zawiya are left believing that they are Muslim clerics, although a scholar would spot a lack of consistency with respect to observances with the Sunni, Shi’ite, or any other sect. They are closest to Khariji practice, the eldest of Islam’s variants. Such religious pretensions are a sham; the Banu Khalida in reality worship a trio of gods. The Zawiya and most of the Hassane know the truth about their deities — that they are demons — but over ﬁve centuries of indoctrination have grown convinced that they have the upper hand in the relationship. Most of the Znaga and virtually all of the slave castes are ignorant of the true nature of their gods, having been deliberately kept away from the darker aspects of demon worship. The upper echelons of the Banu Khalida are goetic sorcerers (Realms of Power: the Infernal, Chapter 11), summoning demons during their profane rituals and stripping them of their Might through the Ablating Art to extend their lives, heal injuries, and enhance their physical Characteristics and Abilities. The Gift is no more common amongst the bidan than in Mythic Europe and most gain their powers through demonic pacts. Few Hassane ever go to battle without multiple enhancements and powers; a duel between two Hassane is often determined by whoever can Summon and Ablate the most powerful demon rather than any actual skill at arms. The Zawiya use their goetic powers mostly to support the Hassane and exert control over the lower castes; through the Commanding Art they construct and repair buildings and roads, and they Bind demons from the Order of Aerial Powers into stone pylons that dot Khalidi cities in order to keep the air cool and bring rain to the crops.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Khalida Characters==

''Players wanting a Khalidi character, particularly a goetic one, should check with the storyguide. Their casual relationship with the Infernal can make them challenging characters to play, particularly among a troupe of non-Khalida. The Social Status Virtues suggested here include both the European and Islamic equivalents (which can be found in Realms of Power: the Divine Revised Edition, pages 114–115) Hassane characters have either the Knight/Emir or Landed Noble/Muqta’ Social Status Virtues, depending on their closeness to the royal families. The most powerful, such as the Emirs of the Twelve Cities, are Diabolist Mythic Companions; other Hassane commonly have the Summoning or Ablating Goetic Arts (Realms of Power: the Infernal, Chapter 11). Zawiya characters should take Priest/’Alim Virtue. Like Hassane, many are goetic sorcerers, although they concentrate on the Commanding and Binding Arts. Znaga can take any Free Social Status Virtue; they have no special''
''rules regarding character creation. Haratan have the Freed Slave Social Status Flaw (see later). They usually have either the Warrior Virtue if they are a soldier, or the Educated Virtue if they are a bureaucrat. ‘Abid take the ‘Abid Major Social Status Flaw. Khalida names: Abisme, Alphaien, Burdel, Canabeus, Chernubles, Corsablix, Esperveres, Eudropin, Faldrun, Gemalfin, Guarlan, Jouna, Malduit, Marcule, Priamon, Timozel''
''FREED SLAVE''
''Minor Social Status Flaw You were either born a slave and have been freed by your current master, or you were born of two freed slaves. You bear a brand to indicate that you are not a runaway slave, but which also marks you as a lower class citizen. You can expect to be paid for whatever work you do, but it is likely to be a pittance, and your only way to avoid poverty may be to join the army or become a clerk''

|}
''WARFARE''
''The Banu Khalida are a warlike race. They do not conduct war for the acquisition of territory; they can carve as much as they need out of the torrid zone, limited only by the capacity of their priests to bind and command demons. They have little need for material wealth, having seemingly limitless gold reserves. Over the centuries Khalidi emirs have realized that sending their Hassane champions out to wage war on trade routes and nomad clans is the best way to prevent them from fomenting trouble at home. In the three hundred years or so that they lived in Iberia, there were''
''always Christians against whom the Hassane could test their mettle, but the Banu Khalida were forced to migrate to an area conquered and then vacated by their Almoravid successors. They must now travel further aﬁeld to ﬁnd opponents, which suits the emirs ﬁne.''

==Stories Involving the Banu Khalida==

''The Banu Khalida have managed to maintain a thriving culture built on the subjugation of demons for nearly two''
''centuries, and yet have not yet been destroyed by Hell for their temerity. That is not to say that they have any advantages that other practitioners of the black arts lack; Khalidi sorcerers are just as prone as others to disastrous botches and Vituperation. Simply because of the number of sorcerers operating in each city barely a year goes by without a demon breaking free and running amok. While the interests of individual demons are certainly not served by permitting the Banu Khalidi to continue existing, the interests of Hell most certainly are. Without access to a Divine faith with which to seek redemp''

==Jurfaret==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per –2, Pre +2, Com +1 (0), Str +2, Sta +2 (+1), Dex +2, Qik +2 (0) * Characteristics in parentheses are his natural scores Size: 0 Age: 26 (26) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (0) Conﬁdence Score: 1 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Knight; Summoning, Ablating; Arcane Lore, Infernal Heirloom, Large, Protection; Overconﬁdent, Supernatural Nuisance; Compulsion (to close things), Corrupted Abilities*, Mentor, Poor Hearing, Tainted with Evil * from Warping Personality Traits: Impetuous +3, Cutthroat +2, Reﬁned +1 Reputations: Ruthless Warrior 2 (Infernal) Combat: Greatsword: Init +4, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +11 Longsword & Round Shield: Init +5, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +8 Gauntlet: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +4 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7– 12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+)''
''Abilities: Area Lore: Twelve Cities 2 (worthy opponents), Athletics 1 (leaping), Brawl 4 (gauntlet), Folk Ken 2 (opponents), Great Weapon 5 (greatsword), Guile 3 (misdirection), Infernal Lore 4 (Ablating), Leadership* 1 (Haratan), Native Language: Punic 5 (Khalidan), Organization Lore: Hassane 2 (Estorgans), Penetration 2 (Ablating), Single Weapon 4* (long sword), Stealth 1 (ambushes) * Corrupted Ability; gain a +3 for sinful uses of this Ability, but a –3 for virtuous uses Arts: Summoning 10, Ablating 9 Powers: Infernal Vitality, 0 points, Init +4, Corpus: Jurfaret’s great sword has a demon bound within it. When the sword is used to inﬂict a wound, Jurfaret’s overall Wound Penalty is reduced by the same amount. So if he inﬂicts a Medium Wound, he reduces his Wound Penalty by 3. He cannot gain a positive Wound Penalty from this power, and the beneﬁt only lasts while his opponent is still alive. The power has a base Penetration of 0, but the wielder can generate a Penetration Total using his own Penetration Ability; it is especially easy to gain blood as an Arcane Connection. This power is equivalent to a 25th level effect.''
''Equipment: partial chain mail, infernal heirloom in the shape of a great sword. Encumbrance: 1 (3) Appearance: Nearly seven feet tall with ebony-black skin, Jurfaret shaves his head and paints his face with red ochre before going into battle. He wears a chainmail shirt covered by a black djebellah to keep the sun from it.''
''Jurfaret is a young Hassane who seeks renown as a warrior. He empowers himself by preying on the ghosts of those individuals he defeats in combat, and often seeks out particularly skilled opponents to test himself against. However, he is haunted by the remnants of the ghosts he has tortured for personal glory, and the stress of their constant presence at the edge of his perception has left him nervous and in possession of a strange compulsion to close jars, doors, shutters, chests, and other places where spirits might hide. Rules for Summoning and Ablating can be found in Realms of Power: the Infernal, pages 114–117; Hassane can cull experience points, Conﬁdence points, or increased Characteristics from ghosts, or heal his wounds. He gains Warping and Infernal Reputation for these deeds. These statistics reﬂect ﬁfteen such victories, and has left some of his Abilities tainted by his sinful methods.''
''tion, even the lowest member of Khalidi society is vulnerable to sin. The Unholy Trinity are amongst the upper echelons of Hell’s hierarchy, and are able to simulate patience in pursuit of the bigger picture, especially with the help of the council of twelve emirs and the senior Zawiyas. As is all too common with demons, the individual goals of Mahound, Termagant, and Apollyon are generally at odds with one another, and the emirs exploit this to create a stalemate in which the Banu Khalida state is permitted to continue. Mahound is principally focused on apostasy. It sends missionaries to northern lands to corrupt the faithful, but is also most watchful of visitors to the Twelve Cities, looking for opportunities to engender a fall from grace. Termagant wants blood to be spilt, as much and as often as possible. This demon has most inﬂuence amongst the Hassane, driving them to acts of meaningless violence. It also promotes callousness toward the slave caste, encouraging the bidan castes to consider them little more than livestock. Termagant is always on the lookout for new sources of slaves. Apollyon is obsessed with greed; it creates gold to encourage merchants from the north to come here for trade; it corrupts them before sending them back. False Gods like Apollyon are able to summon riches from thin air, but this gold is invariably stolen from somewhere else.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
