''North Africa is divided into four bands, each of which suits a different type of transport for merchants, or groups of magi with supplies. The fastest travel is by ship along the coastline. To the west lie the Atlantic coastal cities of Mauritania and to the east, along the Mediterranean, stretches the old Roman province of Cyrenaica. The largest cities of the Maghreb lie in a fertile strip often called the Tell, and here carts are the fastest means of overland trade. Further south lies the High Plateau, which rises into the Atlas Mountains. In these regions, horses predominate. South of these lies the Great Desert. For most travelers, this is the land of camels.''

==Coastal Travel==

''The swiftest way to travel in the Maghreb is by ship. The largest cities are near the coast, and ships frequently pass between them for trade and the transportation of pilgrims. Travel over water is also much safer than land travel. The advantage is so great that it is faster to travel to many Christian ports in Europe by ship, than to other North African cities by land. Piracy is currently relatively rare in this region. The rulers of the southern Iberian coast have a powerful navy, and use it to punish disruptions to the sea lanes.''

==Story Ideas For Pirates==

''The presence of powerful and effective enforcement of naval law does not mean there is no piracy in this area, just that it takes a less overt form than in other parts of Mythic Europe. There are''
''no pirate bases, with full time crews of outlaws; piracy in North Africa is more pernicious.''
''THE MERCHANT HOUSE''
''The easiest way to be a pirate in North Africa is to run a merchant house already, and use piracy as a lucrative sideline. If pirates kill all witnesses, or sell them as slaves in distant ports, then send the seized ships to other foreign ports to begin legitimate trading, the ship is unlikely to be recognized as stolen. If pirates steal the cargo from a vessel, and use it to ﬁll the hold of a ship already known to carry similar goods, then who is to know the cargo is bloodstained? The key is to be subtle: take one ship, every so often, using a hand-picked crew of men who will not talk about where they earned their gold. Most of the time, just pretend to be a merchant. Player characters can be drawn into this when a vessel is taken and an important passenger — a redcap, nobleman, merchant prince — is put to death. They are asked to help ﬁnd the missing person. Alternatively, their supplies may be in a ship which vanishes, and they seek out answers.''
''ROBBING THE IFRANJ''
''It’s easier to capture local ships than to attack Christian ships far from the North African coast. One of the advantages pirates have over their victims is that they carry few supplies. This means they can ﬁll their holds with additional warriors, and these make the melee against the defending crew so much more certain. A ship traveling to Italian waters, for example, needs to sacriﬁce some of those men for supplies. That''
''being noted, pirates robbing the Ifranj gain respect in some parts of North African society, and can even be given formal recognition if war breaks out. Player characters can enter this story either as raiders or pirate hunters.''
''MAKING IT PERSONAL''
''A pirate can avoid the wrath of the emir of Seville by not attacking the ruler’s interests. In this story seed, the last scion of a noble house ﬂees to sea (or is kidnapped and sold as a slave) after the rest of his family is destroyed. He (or she) becomes the leader of the pirates, and begins raids on the ships of the people he feels are responsible for the destruction of his family. The pirate leaves pilgrims unharmed, has excellent manners, and explains to all who listen that these are acts of personal vengeance. Technically, the emir’s navy should destroy this pirate, but naval campaigns are ridiculously expensive, and the pirate’s not harming the emir. Player characters may enter this story as allies of the pirate, if they have a shared foe, or by assisting the people he is attacking. They might instead act as investigators on behalf of the real scion of the family, who didn’t ﬂee to sea. He became an apprentice in a distant covenant, or a companion to the player characters, and wants to know who is using his name, and why.''
''MERCENARY PIRATES''
''No Muslim nobleman would ever hire pirates, ofﬁcially. Pirates are scum, and are hated by every right thinking person, ofﬁcially. Just before war between local nobles, however, it is often''
''advantageous for each side to disrupt the other’s trade. Some, unsubtle, people just have elements from their navy go pirating. Others hire mercenaries, using secret and dependable servants. These mercenaries can be merchants, but are often from the fringes of society: dhimmis, Christians from other lands, or marginal groups like magi. If characters are offered this role, they know to prepare for war. Even if they do not hoist the pirate ﬂag, they can use the confusion to settle scores, gain resources, and protect their interests.''

==Punic and Roman Sites==

''The Phoenicians and Romans both established numerous colonies along the Mediterranean and Atlantic coasts of Africa. The Punic communities grew ﬁrst, favoring rocky promontories overlooking deep natural harbors, optimal for the seafaring culture’s explorers, mer''
''chants, and navies. These towns grew over the course of seven hundred years, trading and growing, becoming a part of the landscape and building the nation that would draw the ire of what would become the greatest empire since Alexander. The rivalry between Rome and Carthage became so rancorous that the Roman Senator, Cato the Elder, ended every speech to the Senate with the comment, “Carthago delenda est” — Carthage ought to be destroyed. Their ﬁrst war began in 264 BC, with the ascendant Rome supporting a usurping band of mercenaries against the dominant naval power of the Mediterranean at the time, Carthage. Twenty-three years of conﬂict left the Republic the new lord of the western waves and Carthage preoccupied with repulsing independent mercenaries who were attempting to overrun Sicily. They clashed again in 218 BC, in 17 years of conﬂict that saw Hannibal march elephants into Italy. Ultimately, a lack of reinforcements allowed Rome to survive and endure. Fifty years later, Rome took the role of aggressor, culminating in the siege and destruction of the city of Carthage itself. The conquering Roman legions ﬁlled the vacuum left in the wake of of the Punic''
''empire’s demise, occupying its former colonies. The Republic enlarged most of these settlements, using the newly incorporated provinces of Numidia and Mauretania as a favored region for retired legionnaires. Fresh arrivals developed the countryside, subdividing the coast into Mauretania Tingitana, Mauretania Caesariensis, Numidia, and Africa Proconsularis, or Cyrenaica. Many weathered the tribulations of the Empire to succumb to the ravages of the Vandals, only to be reconquered by Bellisarius and then later claimed by the Islamic expansion. Ruins lie scattered all across the Maghreb, from Sala Colonia (now Rabat) on the far southwestern Atlantic coast, to Cyrenaica on the eastern Mediterranean coast, not far from Egypt. Most surviving communities fell to the Arabs as they swept across the land. The army either conquered cities and made them a part of the Caliphate or simply left the remnants in place to be reclaimed by the sands. The Romans’ two primary roads began in Tingis, now Tangier. The ﬁrst, the Northern Road, follows the mountains east to Carthage, now Tunis, and then snakes along the coast, going all the way to Alexandria in Egypt. The second, the Western Road''
''runs south to Ad Mercuri and the ruins of Augustus Zilil before it splits in two, one fork following the ocean to Rabat and the other to Volubilis, now called Walili. The Northern Road network reaches ﬁngers out all along the coast from mansion to villa to fort to city, a stony spiderweb grown over 700 years of Roman governance. In most places, the roads are more valuable than the dressed stone, and so looters ignore them and take masonry from ruined buildings instead.''
''MAURETANIA TINGITANA''
''While there are some abandoned ruins like those at Lixus or Iulia Valentia Banasa, many of the Roman and Punic sites in this area are still occupied, such as the coastal cities of Ceuta, once the Roman military town of Septa, or Mlila. In cases where the town remained inhabited, much of the former Roman architecture has been recycled for building materials, leaving only a few monuments or fragmentary structures. In places like Banasa or Lixus, locals have only scavenged some of stone over the centuries, leaving the ruins fairly substantial. Larger surviving communities include Tangier and Walili, formerly Volubilis, both discussed later.''
''MAURETANIA CAESARIENSIS''
''The region which would later be called “The Tell” saw a large number of colonia established in the temperate hills and valleys. Roughly eighteen communities follow the curves of the Northern Road along two forks. Some cities, towns, and ruins of note include Sharshal, Saldae, Tlemcen, Algiers, Djemila and Tifesh. They are discussed later.''
''NUMIDIA''
''This was the region most densely colonized by the Phoenicans and Romans, and the majority of the area had already been seized after the Romans crushed Carthage at the end of the Third Punic War. Rome annexed the rest of Numidia after the Berber client king died and civil war erupted. Rome now governed all of the coast from the Pillars of Heracles to Alexandria, and would later claim Egypt. Numidia consisted mostly of the eastern Tell and Tunisia. It included Carthage, Constantine, Soussa, Bouna, Tbessa and ruins like Lambaesis and Tamagudi. These sites are discussed further later.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Wine, Women, and History==

''For those in search of the history of the Maghreb, few reliable sources exist. One of the most respected and oft-quoted is Ibrahim ar-Raqiq, an 11th century courtier, diplomat, and secretary to the Zirid Princes of Ifriqiya. He is also known for his texts on the less scholarly topics of wine, women, and song, such as Quṭb asSurūr (On Wine). His legacy as a historian, however was cemented with the rare and valuable Tarikh Ifriqiyya wal-Maghrib:''
''The Tarikh Ifriqiyya wal-Maghrib (Arabic) Summa Area Lore: Maghreb (Level 4, Quality 10), Tractatus Area Lore: Great Desert (Quality 10) Author: Ibrahim ar-Raqiq, 11th century historian. Availability: The private libraries of merchants and nobles in Maghreb and Al-Andalus. Description: Of particular interest to Seekers are portions detailing the Fatimid caliph Ismail al-Mansur’s military operations in the Tahert area. The Caliph visited the jedars at Jabal Lakhdar and asked for the translation of the dedicatory inscriptions; ar-Raqiq reports the interpreter stated the monuments celebrated a military victory by the Byzantine army of Justinian I. While this is incorrect, the text does accurately note the locations of the thirteen great Berber tombs located in the hills south of Tahert.''

==Arc Seed: Imperial Legacies==

''The Romans quickly and inexplicably abandoned many of the region’s ruins at the end of the third century. While the Berber tribes may have had a hand in this departure, they had been present for a thousand years, and had not previously forced an exodus. Can ancient Roman ghosts be summoned to provide clues, possibly revealing an incident involving the great Hunger Spirit precipitated by Mercurian wizards who meddled with things best left undisturbed? Are the libraries and scrolls of the former priests still hidden in their sanctuaries or secreted away in forgotten refuges? Perhaps some fragments of the fabled network of road-magic? Magi or Seekers coming to investigate Maghreb’s ruins may ﬁnd more than they bargained for, as a large pack of bouda have moved in from the south and plan to pick the region clean.''

==Story Seed: A Pirate Crown==

''A legacy of independent rule is not easily forgotten, even after 150 years, and the pirate culture of Anfa secretly hopes to throw off the yoke of the Almoravid suzerain. Until the time is right to act on their plans, the pirates secretly subvert and undermine the regional governor’s endeavors. A canny Tytalus may recognize the potential for machination, and take up Anfa’s cause, working with the pirates-cumconspirators to make independence a reality. An even more devious rival may reveal the possible rebellion to an opposing Tytalus, using the situation to draw a target into the open.''

|}
''CYRENAICA''
''The Cyrenaica region borders the deep deserts of Libya and has few cities. It does have a large number of forts, and nearly 2000 fortiﬁed farms built by the Legio III Augusta. The defensive line of the Limes Tripolitana survived in some form into the 11th century, protecting the cities until the nomad warriors of the Banu Hillal Arab tribe overran the area. Within a few decades, the area was nearly abandoned to the sand and wind.''

==The Western Coast==

''The Western Maghreb region hosts several unusual sites, like the island of Mogador, nestled along an Atlantic coastline dotted with cities such as Anfa, Asﬁ, or the twin cities of Rabat and Sale. This is temperate coastline that occa''
''sionally suffers vicious winds laden with biting sand sweeping out of the dunes to the east, but also sports fertile plains and hills that help communities thrive.''

==Anfa==

''Anfa has a deep harbor and a strong wall surrounded by verdant farmland and overlooked by the tall tower of the great mosque’s minaret. Like other cities along the coast, it was originally a colony established by Carthage and later incorporated into the Roman Empire. Its population consists primarily of Berbers, and from the seventh century to 1068, Anfa rejected rule by the Caliphate and created a city-state called the Kingdom of Anfa. The Almoravids, however, surrounded and conquered it, incorporating Anfa into their empire. Throughout all that time and to the present, the city has remained a haven for pirates raiding the Straits of Gibraltar and the Mediterranean. It is not simply a raider’s port of call, however. Anfa is a bustling port, trading saharan goods, grain, and fabrics with many European cities, includ''
''ing Seville in Iberia and Genoa in Italy. All of this combines to create a very tolerant and cosmopolitan environment that, if not welcoming to foreigners, is most certainly not hostile. Some might consider Anfa the secret entrance into the Maghreb, one jealously guarded by those merchants who frequent it.''

==Asﬁ==

''Asﬁ is an ancient Punic colony, and the residents are renowned for their high quality pottery and rich ﬁshing grounds. A trusted and valued trade partner with Marrakesh, its deep harbor is often quite busy with merchant vessels bringing in manufactured luxuries from Iberia or exporting exotic goods from beyond the Great Desert, and with trawlers hauling in their nets. The Suﬁ mystic Abu Mohammed Salih, or Al-Mighri, makes his home in Asﬁ, with an established ribat and the nascent foundations of the Magiriyyun order. At 67 years old, he is beloved by the town elders. If your saga follows history, he will live another 14 years, teaching Suﬁ''
''ascetics and writing his book Bidayat al Mourid, a record of Tassawuf, the mystic inner aspect of Suﬁsm and the lives of certain suﬁ saints, like Al-Maghri’s teacher Abu Madyan. The city claims a strange legend as the origin of its name. In the early 11th century, a large group of sailors accidentally made landfall on the Hesperides. They collected a number of souvenirs before the natives captured them, blindfolded them, and sent them back out on the waves with a storm on their heels, compelled to never set sail again once they arrived at their next port. Lost within the blustery winds of their captors’ curse, the crew ﬁnally stepped on to the docks of Asﬁ and asked where they were. The locals told the mariners they were months away from their native land al-Andalus. Upon hearing this news, a sailor responded by saying, “Wa asaﬁ” (Oh, my regret). The great geographer, Al-Idrisi stated the city was called “Asaﬁ” from that point forward. Many of the descendants of these sailors still possess the relics their ancestors smuggled away from the Hesperides, including several accounts of how their ship arrived. For those seeking a way to reach the mythic destination of Heracles, these tales may prove priceless.''

==Island of Mogador==

''Noted in the Periplus of Hanno, the primary account of his expedition, the island of Mogador was renowned as the source of a speciﬁc sea snail. When crushed and prepared, its shell produces a rare dye once used to stain the purple stripe on the togas of Imperial Senators. The secret of this dye’s production, reputed to create a terrible stench, is carefully guarded by the people who visit the island to harvest shells and live across the bay in the nearby town of Essaouira. The whole island has a Magic aura of 4 and remains uninhabited due to rumors of a bloodthirsty monster. A regio exists on the island, accessed through a ruined cellar door in an overgrown and crumbling Roman villa. In this regio, the Roman villa exists as it did at the height of the Imperial period, peopled with the descendants of the craftsmen and autocrats dedicated to the production of the dye for the Emperor.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Punic Ghosts and Roman Ruins==

''The necropolis of Chellah is ideal for magi seeking out ancient spirits. There are few prying eyes to question the acts of the investigators and there is little interference from Divine auras, as the necropolis is surrounded by a wall and separate from the city proper, which mutes the sounds of prayer from tthe few remaining residents. Few will question open graves or active digging within the complex, and the ancient nature of the structures and area mean magi will likely ﬁnd what they’re looking for, if it is here. Ghosts of those Punic dead buried in antiquity may prove difﬁcult to question, however, unless the summoner has managed to learn the language somewhere or can cast Thoughts within the Babble with enough Penetration to defeat their Might. Those who speak''
''Aramaic may speak to Punic ghosts as if they had a Dead Language: Punic score of 3 lower (scores less than zero indicate no communication is possible). As a former Roman colony which was simply abandoned, there is also a chance several deﬁxiones might be found inside. The Romans used Sala Colonia as a launching point to seek out the Hesperides, and so Roman ghosts may be able to aid those looking for clues to the islands’ location. To the canny seeker, Chellah is a treasure trove waiting to be explored. However, what happens if a curious youth notiﬁes the authorities or a mundane grave robber decides to interfere, reporting the activities to the powers in Salé? Can the magi contain the situation before it grows out of hand?''

==Tales from the Wine Dark Seas==

''Those searching for the Hesperides or the mysteries of Atlantis, or simply wanting to push the boundaries of the known world for fame or proﬁt, may seek out stories of past explorers. Few are as famous as Hanno the Navigator of Carthage. The record of his journey only survives in translation, a book called The Periplus of Hanno.''
''The Periplus of Hanno (Classic Greek) Tractatus Area Lore: Beyond the Pillars of Heracles (Quality 6), Tractatus Magic Lore (Quality 6) Author: Unknown, originally Hanno Availability: Very difﬁcult to ﬁnd, usually in private collections in Tangier, Alexandria, Rome, and Constantinople. Description: Translated from Punic to Classic Greek by an unknown scholar, this book discusses Hanno the Libyan’s journey out from Carthage and beyond the Pillars of Heracles with a ﬂeet of 60 ships. His route took him into the outer Ocean with Libya on his port side, and he continued on toward the west for 35 days. When he turned the ﬂotilla south, he encountered a terrible lack''
''of fresh water, intense heat, great hairy men, and “ﬁery streams running into the sea.”''
''STORY SEED: TABULA NON RASA''
''Hanno’s expedition returned with a tablet detailing the wonders and spectacles he found beyond the Pillars of Heracles, but it was lost with the sacking of Carthage. Hidden in the text lie speciﬁc clues necessary for avoiding the hazards Hanno faced and possibly ﬁnding the lost Hesperides or some other famous place, such as the Tin Islands. Construction or chance has uncovered a copper slate engraved with Punic text which may just be the actual tablet. Once deciphered, it could lead magi to a potential source of resources for their covenant which might be completely uncontested, but only if they are willing to plunge into the unknown.''

|}

==Between Sand & Sea Rabat and Salé==

''The towns of Rabat and Salé straddle the mouth of the Bou Regreg river. The Almohads used Rabat as a staging point for their conquest of Iberia, building up the Rabatu l-Fath fortress, or “Stronghold of Victory.” Caliph Al-Mansur moved the capitol of the empire to Rabat in 1190 and began a great number of construction projects. He completed the great walls which surround it, and began the Hassan tower, an incomplete mosque intended to be the world’s largest, capable of receiving 20,000 faithful, but construction stopped with the caliph’s death in 1199. The tower stands 50 paces high, with internal ramps large enough to ride a horse up and surrounded by a forest of 200 columns supporting a cedar roof. Even in this partial state, the locals continue to use it as a mosque, and it has a Divine aura of 4. Al-Mansur also encouraged the conversion of the nearby abandoned ancient Phoenican town of Chellah, which became the Roman settlement of Sala Colonia, into a full-ﬂedged royal necropolis. He completed the reconstruction of Rabat’s Kasbah, an immense palace-fortress complex with its own mosque, situated at the mouth of the Bou Regreg. The enormous Kasbah has been deserted since 1199, save for a few squatters, and the aura of its mosque has faded. Al-Mansur’s heir, Muhammad al-Nasir, left the region to refocus on opposing the Reconquista and died in 1213. The current caliph, Yusuf al-Mustansir, appointed on al-Nasir’s deathbed, is a neglectful absentee lord who leaves the administration and rulership of the Maghreb in the hands of governors and viziers. This area is no different, and the bureaucrat who manages this region focuses his attention on Salé. Paired with Rabat, Salé occupies the northern shore. A stout wall surrounds the city, and rowboats carry brisk trafﬁc across the river at all times of the day and night. The settlement developed primarily as a result of the growth of Rabat in the last hundred years. A canal links the river to the Beb Mrisa souk, allowing some boats to sail directly into the souk.''

==Pithecousa, the Island of Monkeys==

''Not to be confused with the Island of Ischia near Naples (which was once called Pithecousa by the Greeks), Pithecousa is a legendary land ruled by monkeys that lies just off the African coast. Some say that it is found amongst the Balearic Islands or adjacent to Gibraltar, others claim it is through the Pillars of Hercules in the Atlantic Sea, still others place it within the expanse of the Nile Delta. In fact, any of these locations can be true, for Pithecousa sits within a regio that has several entrances. All these entrances are found at sea, within patches of unexpected fog. The regio has a Magic aura of 5. Those seeing through the regio boundary (Ease Factor 15, see ArM5 page 189) perceive a conical island looming from the fog, its slopes redolent with lush vegetation, and they can land on its beaches. At certain times of year, particular headings through the fog lead directly through the regio to the island without needing any special abilities.''
''ARRIVING ON THE ISLAND''
''Pithecousa has two enchantments that affect any who arrive on the island. All human characters (and other creatures affected by Corpus magic) on the island are targeted by a magical effect with a Penetration of zero that transforms everyone who does not resist into the shape of a mundane monkey. The type of monkey depends on the personality of the character; aggressive warriors tend to become hamadryades, clever characters become callithrices, and agile individuals become cercopitheci (see insert for details on monkey types). Unusual characters may take exotic forms. The character retains her Intelligence, all Virtues and Flaws, and all Abilities, but her clothes and equipment are not transformed, and are probably too big to use easily. Monkey characters are capable of communicating with other monkeys; they can understand but cannot speak a human language. A magus cannot properly form the Latin words of his spells, and is limited to casting spells with quiet words (ArM5, page 83). This transformation lasts all the time the''

==Satyrus, an Ape==

''Magic Might: 7 (Animal) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun +2, Per 0, Pre –3, Com 0, Str –4, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: –2 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Learn Athletics from Mistakes; Baneful Circumstances (new moon) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Essential Virtue (Presence), Gift of Speech, Gift of Thumbs*, Improved Abilities x 2, Personal Powers x 2; Essential Flaw (Perception), Limited Speech * Just as Gift of Speech negates the inherent Mute Flaw of Magic Animals, this Minor Magical Quality negates the inherent No Hands Flaw Mundane Qualities: Crafty, Defensive Fighter, Skilled Climber, Timid Personality Traits: Cheerful at Full Moon (Presence)* +3, Monkey* +3, Mischievous +2, Brave –2, Attentive at New Moon (Perception)* –3 Reputations: None Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage –3 Evasion: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (climbing), Awareness 4 (predators), Brawl 3 (bite), Stealth 3 (hiding), Survival 3 (foraging) Powers: Ape the Beast, 1 point, Init –1, Animal: The monkey can acquire any minor natural ability of any animal he sees: a frog’s ability to swim; a squirrel’s perfect balance; a cat’s night vision, and so forth. He can acquire any mundane Qualities, like a pair of goat’s horns, a tortoise’s shell, a hedgehog’s spines, the venomous fangs of a snake, or the thick pelt of a bear; but cannot make major adaptations like a bird’s wings. He can only retain one such''
''ability at a time; if he adopts a second ability whilst he still retains another, then the ﬁrst ability disappears. The power is otherwise maintained indeﬁnitely, but as long as the monkey retains an ability he loses one Might point every sunset and sunrise (it takes him three hours to regenerate this point; less in a Magic aura). MuAn 25 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 Constant effect, +1 can change ability possessed) Personal Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost) Mimic the Man, 0 points, Init +2, Imaginem: The monkey can perfectly copy any sound he hears, even human speech, although he does not understand what he is saying. MuIm 3 (Base 1, +1 Conc, +1 Complexity) Personal Power (3 levels, –1 Might cost, +1 Init) Vis: Two pawns of Muto, one in each hand Appearance: A tailless monkey with yellowish, gray, or brown fur with paler underparts. Their faces are darker in color.''
''MONKEY VARIETIES''
''This insert describes a magic animal, but not all the monkeys on Pithecousa are magical. For the statistics of a mundane animal, simply remove the Magic Animal Virtue, Magic Might, Magical Qualities and Inferiorities (including the Essential Traits, and Powers), and vis. Reduce Quickness by one. The generic name for a monkey is Simia in Latin. The statistics given above reﬂect a type of ape called the satyrus (a Barbary macaque to the modern reader), which is the most common type of monkey and the only one without a tail. Non-magical satyri are found throughout the mountainous regions of North Africa. Medieval bestiaries also distinguished four other types of monkey. Modern names for the monkey species have been provided in parentheses. There may be other exotic monkeys on the island that cannot be found elsewhere; like tailless black furred giants, or tiny creatures with immense eyes.''
''Cercopithecus: The Smallest of the monkeys on Pithecousa and an incorrigible thief, the cercopithecus has a shaggy reddish-brown coat and a long tail. It has white legs and underparts, a cap of brighter red, and black lines from face to ear. The cercopithecus is also found in Mauritania in open scrubland. Grey-furred versions with black faces are found in forests close to the Torrid Zone. Adjustments: Size –4 (change Str to –8 and Qik to +4), add the Minor Virtue (Light Touch) Magical Quality and the Minor Flaw (Carefree) Magical Inferiority. The cercopithecus also has the Fast Runner mundane Quality. (Patas monkeys and other guenons) Callithrix: The callithrix has a long white beard on its face, a long shawl of white fur over its back, and a white tuft on its tail; it is otherwise a black monkey. Unlike other monkeys, the callithrix lacks a thumb (represented by its Magical Inferiority, below). The callithrix is naturally found in the Horn of Africa, and is an occasional pet amongst Egyptians. Adjustments: Size –3 (change Str to –6 and Qik to +3), add the Minor Virtue (Perfect Balance) Magical Quality and the Minor Flaw (Palsied Hands) Magical Inferiority. (Colobus monkey) Sphinx: This is a docile beast with shaggy hair and a long tail; the males have an impressive lion-like mane and a colorful face — a red median stripe, blue muzzle, and yellow beard. The sphinx is native to the Empire of Ghana, but has been brought into North Africa by travelers. Adjustments: Add the Minor Virtue (Inspirational) Magical Quality and the Minor Flaw (Noncombatant) Magical Inferiority. (Mandrill) Hamadryas: These are also called the cynocephalus, but this would confuse them with the Magic Humans of the same name. The hamadryas is a ﬁerce monkey with a dog-like face. They are olive brown, although the males have a silvery-gray cape and mane of longer hair. The hamadryas naturally lives in the eastern deserts and highlands. Adjustments: Add the Minor Virtue (Berserk) Magical Quality and the Minor Flaw (Oversensitive to Threats) Magical Inferiority. The hamadryas does not have the Timid mundane Quality, replace its Brave –2 Personality Trait with Brave + 2. (Baboon)''
''characters are on the island, and causes Warping as a powerful mystical effect. Any Flaws the characters acquire from this Warping make them more simian. If characters want to dispel the magic, it is equivalent to a 55th level enchantment (approximately Muto Corpus base 10, +1 Touch, +4 Until (leaving the island), +4 Boundary). A Bjornaer magus may also use his Heartbeast Ability to end the effect. Anyone achieving human form is immediately affected by the second effect (see below). The second magical effect of the island is a ward that keeps out everything in human shape. This effect has a Penetration of 50. If this effect overcomes''
''the character’s Magic Resistance, then she cannot leave the beach on the landward side, nor physically or magically affect anything that is not on the beach. Anyone managing to transform into human form while in the island’s interior is immediately forced to head for the nearest beach if they fail to resist this effect’s Penetration. Partial reversions to human form (to allow proper speech, for example) must be adjudicated separately; as soon as the character has a recognizable human shape, the ward is triggered. This effect is equivalent to an 85th level enchantment (approximately Rego Corpus base 15, +1 Touch, +4 Until (leaving the island), +4 Boundary; +25''
''for Penetration 50). Magi wishing to explore the island probably need to suppress their Magic Resistance and accept the transformation. The origin of both effects is unknown; they seem to stem from the island itself, and derive from no form of magic familiar to the characters. Hermetic guidelines are given purely for investigative and dispelling purposes.''

==Story Seeds: Pithecousa==

''An island of monkeys provides ample opportunities for stories.''
''THE MONKEY’S FIST''
''The characters ﬁnd a strange object amongst other treasures: a spherical knot of golden cord known as a “monkey’s ﬁst.” Inscribed on the rope is the legend of Pithecousa, and it is enchanted with a minor Hermetic enchantment. Those familiar with the Order of Hermes may recall a famous Verditius called Verecunda from the covenant of Favonius (The Sundered Eagle, page 83), who is an expert in knots and has a monkey for a familiar. Verecunda made the item for the King of the Monkeys, as payment for one of his subjects as a familiar. The item was stolen from the king by a treacherous servant several years ago. That servant has now transformed himself into a formidable threat, but needs the Monkey’s Fist to return to Pithecousa and challenge his former monarch for the right to rule monkeykind. If the characters are trying to ﬁnd the island themselves, he disguises himself and pretends to help them, in the hope of getting his hands on the artifact.''
''A FAMILIAR APE''
''A character wanting a monkey as a familiar would do well to visit Pithecousa. A magus who befriends or abducts a monkey without the King of Monkeys’ permission is asking for trouble; the king dispatches his subjects to retrieve his subject, amounting to the Supernatural Nuisance Flaw. If the magus instead petitions the king, he’ll be asked to win his familiar in the following way. Monkey mothers always give birth to twins. She loves one of her children, but loathes the other. She holds the one she loves in her arms, and carries the hated one on her back. When pursued by a hunter, the monkey needs her hands free to climb, and is forced to abandon the beloved child in order to save herself. However, it often works out that the hated twin is a Magic Animal whereas the loved one is a mundane beast. The magus must capture the mother and retrieve the hated twin without using his magic or harming any monkey.''
''FALSE EMBASSY''
''Characters arrive on the Island of Monkeys in time for the Ceremony of the King’s Urination. During the presentation of gifts (hopefully the characters have something they can offer), the characters meet the Embassy from Furthest Hind. These exotic monkeys are very''
''interested in the characters, and hope to use their friendship to get close to the king. Rather than ambassadors, these monkeys are actually shapechanged serpents working for the King of Punt, who hope to assassinate the King of Monkeys. Punt is the Egyptian name for Soqotra (see Rival Magic, Chapter Five), and the king there is a mighty serpent with far-reaching plans that might involve the player characters opposing the exotic sorcerers of that island.''
''THE DESCENT OF MAN''
''Members of House Bjornaer would be very interested in Pithecousa. The effect that transforms characters into monkeys works somewhat like the heartbeast, in that characters become monkeys that reﬂect their temperament. They can also avoid being forced into monkey shape by adopting their heartbeast. Pithecousa could easily be an Ancestor Site for the house (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 25). If the mystics of House Bjornaer perform the Ritual of Twelve Years at the king’s court, they may ﬁnd local-born apprentices expressing any number of exotic African animals as heartbeasts, monkeys included. However, the King of Monkeys is unlikely to allow this disruption, and the characters might be dispatched back to the island to secure his cooperation, or failing that, his eviction.''
''EXPLORING THE ISLE OF MONKEYS''
''The island is mostly occupied by a single steep-sided mountain, although its slopes are rich in lush vegetation. Five rivers stemming from the plentiful rain have carved deep ravines into the mountain sides. The thick tropical forest is particularly rich in colorful unfamiliar ﬂowers and exotic fruit. There are plentiful iridescent birds, oversized insects, lizards, frogs, and ﬁsh. Hoofed and clawed beasts other than monkeys are unusually small: one can ﬁnd miniature goats, lions the size of house cats, and elephants no bigger than pigs. None of the predators pose a threat to the monkeys. There are no snakes at all; these are the traditional enemies of the monkeys, and have been hunted to extinction. Any brought in by visitors are met with both fear and violence. As one might expect, there are lots of monkeys here. Monkey society on Pithecousa is a parody of human society: the noble sphinxes rule over the peasant satyri, enforced and supported by the hamadryas warrior caste. The callithrices ﬁll in academic and clerical roles, and the cercopitheci are specialists, entertainers, and criminals. Most of the monkeys have Cunning rather than true Intelligence, and all the aping of societal roles is mere pantomime. A callithrix might make marks on a leaf like a scribe, but there is no meaning in them; a cercopithecus hammers at a rock industriously but he is not actually making anything. Visitors are treated with curiosity, except on the new moon, when monkeys are depressed and withdrawn. Characters may ﬁnd themselves under attack by enraged hamadryades if they wander into the wrong territory, or get caught up in a cercopithecus revel (they get drunk on naturally-fermenting fruits), or end up being arrested and tried before a court of sphinxes. Eventually, however, guests on the island ﬁnd themselves at the court of the King of Monkeys.''
''THE KING OF MONKEYS''
''The court is held in a bowl-shaped depression surrounded by date palms. A rock in the center of this natural amphitheater is the king’s throne. He is sur''
''rounded by his counselors and guards, who are drawn from all ﬁve kinds of monkey and several more exotic examples. The king himself has characteristics of all his subjects: he is tailless like the satyrus; he has the facial markings of the sphinx; the mane of the hamadryas; the beard of the callithrix and the size of the cercopithecus. The King of Monkeys and his counselors are all Magic Animals; the king has Intelligence rather than Cunning and so do many of his court. The King of Monkeys may have a higher Might and further powers as beﬁtting a monarch of his race. On each half moon, the king receives tribute from his subjects. They form a line and bring him the choicest fruit, the shiniest shells, colorful rocks, and the like. Occasionally a monkey is noisily reprimanded by a counselor for the quality of the gift. The tribute is piled before the king’s rock; and anything that the characters lose (or have stolen) on the island is likely to end up here. On each equinox, the tribute is combined with the Ceremony of the King’s Urination. In great solemnity in front of his whole court, the King of Monkeys passes water seven times. All the monkeys watch with great interest but the purpose of this ceremony is not clear; observers have hypothesized that it might be some form of divination.''

==The Rif==

''The simple banded model for this region’s geography has one glaring exception: the Rif. The Rif is a triangular, mountainous spike which juts up from Africa, to create a thin strait at Gibraltar. It has several important towns. It is currently held by the Marinid, a Berber tribe who are opposed to the Almohads currently ruling Marrakesh. The Marinid dominance of this area gives them a staging ground for raids into Almohad territory, and makes trade with and administration of the Spanish territories of the Empire more difﬁcult.''

==Tangier==

''A city in the Rif likely to interest magi is Tangier. Under the Romans and Phoenicians, it was a modest port and trade city, but the Caliphate has grown Tangier into a busy maritime crossroads between Iberia, Europe, the Mediterranean, and the Great Desert caravan routes, maintaining a navy of sixty vessels. While it exports wool, hides, fruits, honey and wax, the city has a reputation for rough living, and St. Francis has called it “a city of madness and illusions.” Tangier was named after Tinjis, a goddess or giantess who married Heracles while he was on his way to perform his labors, bearing the city’s ﬁrst king. This king, a giant named Sophox, was buried in a barrow still evident in the city; any local can point player characters to it. Many Berber chieftains claim descent from Sophox. The Giant Blood and Great Strength Virtues are found in this area’s population, and since this society rewards victorious warriors, these claims may have some foundation.''
''TUMULUS OF ANTAEUS''
''Near Tangier, south of the city but before one reaches the mountains, stands the lonely tumulus of Antaeus, a titan or giant, depending on the source. Surrounded by a ring of 175 smaller menhirs, Antaeus’ grave marker rises ﬁve paces into the sky. Once the monarch of the region, many of the local kings have claimed descent from his bloodline. The Roman commander Quintus Sertorius supposedly found the site; digging it open, his men found enormous bones. Out of respect for their discovery, Sertorius made propitiatory offerings, sealed the barrow, and helped to magnify the tomb’s reputation by commissioning several epics. The learned Roman client-king, Juba II of Numidia (died 23 BC), who was husband of the daughter of Antony and Cleopatra, claimed his descent from a liaison of Heracles with Tinjis, the consort of Antaeus. This giant is interesting, if legends about him are true, as he is the offspring of a Magical creature and a Faerie. Also to the south lies is the Cave of Heracles, where the hero slept before''
''continuing on to ﬁnish his Eleventh Labor, slaying the dragon and recovering the Apples of the Hesperides. It has a Faerie aura of 4.''
''WALILI''
''The best examples of Roman stonework in this area survive in Walili, formerly the Imperial provincial capitol of Volubilis. Surrounded by fertile plains, the Berber king Juba II claimed it as his''
''capital and Latin was spoken there until the Caliphate conquered the populace in 790. When the aqueduct fell into disrepair, residents shifted their homes to a nearby wadi, and the former city became their cemetery. Many buildings still display intact mosaics and statuary from the Roman era; the main road, the decumanus maximus, is intact; and the impressive basilica, forum, and triumphal arch of Caracalla harken back to the lost days of the Empire. A Magic aura of 3 covers the ruins.''

==The Tell: Tunisia==

''The names for this region have shifted to match the lords in charge over the millennia. It has been called Massyli, Carthage, Africa, Ifriqiya, Tunis, and now Tunisia. It covers a broad expanse of territory, from modern-day Morocco to modern-day Tripoli.''

==The Marinids==

''The Marinids are portrayed as barbarians by Almohad loyalists, but that may not be true. Storyguides who prefer a rampaging horde, a bit like the Mongols, can certainly use the Marinids in this role, but there are other possibilities. In real life, the Marinids eventually did conquer the west of the Maghreb. From their capital in Fez, which they did not destroy when they ﬁnally invaded it, they ushered in an age of art and scholarship which, although it did not rival the height of the Almohads, was certainly superior to the court in Marrakesh in 1220. Discuss with your troupe what sorts of stories you’d like to tell, then pick a theme for the Marinids. The Marinids have one great weakness, if the player characters are maneuvering a faction against them. The dynasty remains coherent if it continues to successfully raid, or expand. If plunder, or conquest, ceases, then each Marinid warlord considers expanding his power by destroying his cousins and appropriating their followers. Characters who can stall the expansion of the dynasty can force it to change form. Through a period of internecine war, the Marinids can be transformed into a uniﬁed, but far smaller, force.''
''IMGHRAWN, SCION OF ANTAEUS''
''Magic Might 20 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +0, Per +1, Pre +0, Com –2, Str +10, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik –2 Size: +4 (14 ft and 2775lbs) Conﬁdence: 1 (3) Season: Summer''
''Virtues and Flaws: Magical Monster; Improved Characteristics, Intuition, Magic Human, Keen Vision, Puissant Brawl, Sharp Ears, Tough, Warrior; Baneful Circumstances (when not touching the ground); Fury (disrespecting his bloodline), Overconﬁdent, Proud, Weakness (must meet a declared challenge). Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic (x3); Improved Abilities, Improved Damage [Fist] (x2), Improved Powers, Improved Soak (x4), Minor Virtue: Improved Characteristics (x2), Personal Power [Friend of the Desert, mien of Man or Massif] (x2); Monstrous Appearance, Minor Flaw: Slow Power (Friend of the Desert), Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Proud +3, Devoted +2, Gluttonous +3, Greedy +2, Violent +2 Reputations: None. Combat: Dodge: Init: +0, Attack N/A, Defense +1, Damage N/A Fist: Init: –2, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +16 Kick: Init: –1, Attack +9, Defense +8, Damage +13 Cudgel: Init: –1, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +17 Thrown Stone: Init –2, Attack +9, Defense +8, Damage +15 Soak: +16 Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37–) Abilities: Area Lore: Maghreb 3 (kings),''
''Awareness 4 (spotting travelers), Brawl 5+2 (grapple), Guile 3 (concealing intent), Great Weapon 4 (cudgel), Living Language: Arabic 4 (threats), Stealth 5 (remaining unseen), Survival 4 (ﬁnding oases), Thrown Weapon 4 (stone) Powers: Mien of Man or Massif, 0 points, Init –5, Imaginem This power makes Imghrawn appear and sound like a Size 0 man. MuIm 25 (Base 2, +4 for size, +2 Sun, +1 Moving Image); Improved Powers: –3 Might cost Friend of the Desert, 1 point, Init –5, Ignem Imghrawn ignores heat and ﬁre damage of +15 or less. ReIg (Base 4, +2 for +15 or less, +2 Sun, +1 size); Improved Powers: –2 Might cost Equipment: Acacia wood cudgel, sack of salt, gold, trinkets Encumbrance: 0 Vis: 4 pawns of Ignem vis in heart. Appearance: Nearly three times the height of an ordinary man, Imghrawn is a fearsome but strangely handsome giant with a thick, curly beard, a strong nose, and bright, calculating black eyes. He is dressed in Berber-style robes and keeps several skulls in swaths of indigo cloth tied to his waist. Imghrawn wields a huge cudgel of acacia wood, studded with chunks of green-white desert glass. He keeps a miserable camel, which carries his personal hoard of salt, gold and trinkets. Occasionally, he leads a chain of slaves, but these are usually traded for baubles, or infrequently eaten.''
''Several important cities thrive within Tunisia, such as grand Marrakesh, bustling Fes, Tunis, once the city of Carthage, the holy city of Kairouan, and the vibrant port of Tripoli. Pirates are rife along the coasts, operating out of harbors in Mahdia, Sfax, or even the abandoned wharves of Girba on the island of Djerba. This fertile region of North Africa is often called “the Tell.” Characters traveling by land in the Tell may use wheeled vehicles, drawn by horses, donkeys, oxen, or camels. Donkeys and horses travel faster than oxen, but can carry or pull less cargo. Wheeled vehicles are worse than useless in the mountains and desert, where camels are preferred.''

==Marrakesh==

''The largest city in the region, and most inﬂuential, is the source of many story ideas. Called the “Red City,” for the ochre-colored earth used in so many buildings, the sultan Abu Bakr founded Marrakesh at the foot of the Atlas Mountains in 1062 and it has served as the capital for numerous regional rulers. Its great marketplace and souk, the Djemaa El Fna, serves as the functional and social heart of the city. Exotic baubles from the deep desert, Christian slaves from Europe, slaves from the south, gold and salt out of the desert, and goods from all across the Maghreb may be found in the tents and stalls of this massive bazaar, mingling with more than a few faeries plying the crowds as merchants, performers, or street urchins.''

==Story Seed: A Claim to the Throne.==

''The giant Imghrawn believes he should rule a swath of the Maghreb as his birthright. To achieve this, the giant thinks he must emulate Antaeus, and raise a temple fashioned from the skulls of his defeated foes. He has decided to start with a fortiﬁed ksour village and its oasis, established nearby and tasked with providing the covenant with dates and livestock. The ksour’s population must be rescued from this brute before he slaughters them all for a delusion. Alternatively, the covenant may decide to support the giant, and begin a bloodthirsty campaign of slaughter and conquest, drawing the attention of local governor’s forces and tax collectors and initiating a very strange conﬂict in the area.''
''Pharsalia, Book IV (Latin) Tractatus Area Lore: Maghreb (Quality 6), Tractatus Magic Lore (Quality 6) Author: Marcus Annaeus Lucanus Availability: Difﬁcult to ﬁnd, in heirloom collections in Italy, Iberia and Constantinople. Description: This text details the story of Heracles’ victory over Antaeus. the tale is told to the Roman Curio by an unnamed Libyan citizen who regales the author with the wide-ranging battleﬁeld, the strength of the titan, and the demigod’s eventual triumph.''
''VIRTUE: OF KINGS AND GIANTS, ANTAEUS’ BLOODLINE''
''Major or Minor Supernatural Virtue Those who enjoy the gift of Antaeus’ Bloodline manifest its attributes in several ways. Depending on whether the Major or Minor version is taken, the character ages as per the Faerie Blood Virtue (Minor) or the Strong Faerie Blood Virtue (Major), but also exhibits other traits. In its Minor form, the individual may have one of the following: a +1 to the Strength characteristic (but no greater than +3), +1 to the Brawl ability, or +1 to Soak. In the Major version, the character has all beneﬁts, and also gains the Large and Magic Sensitivity Virtues, as well as the Major Flaw, Greater Malediction (Must be Touching the Ground). If prevented from touching the ground, the character loses the bonuses, and reduces his Soak by 2; however, he still remains physically the same size. When chosen, the player decides if this bloodline is Magical or Faerie aligned, and cannot change this alignment later.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds==

''Travel is always a great source of stories, and this is particularly true in North Africa.''
''THE ROADS OF ROME''
''The player characters, once they become established in North Africa, become a resource for other magi wanting to explore the continent. A Bonisagus magus who wishes to rediscover the secrets of the Cult of Mercury seeks out the player characters. He wishes to examine the Roman road network of North Africa, as it is more intact than that of Europe; in some deserted areas it remains entirely undamaged. If the player characters begin digging up the old Roman roads, they draw the attention of noblemen, and the Bonisagus magus is entirely unsuited to dealing with them.''
''THE TAKERS OF TAXES''
''Merchants who travel in North Africa are subjected to various taxes as they enter and leave the domains of the various rulers. It is a sign that a ruler is corrupt if his representatives take more than they should, or destroy the merchant’s cargo while assessing it. Right thinking men are almost required to taunt, fool, embarrass, and harass these tax collectors. Characters who do so are considered heroes by the poor. These stories are particularly suited to companions and grogs, and provide an excellent opportunity to introduce potential allies or enemies of the covenant, who respond accordingly to the action or inaction of the player characters. This interaction sets the scene for later negotiations, when the covenant comes seeking particular hardto-ﬁnd goods or services.''

|}
''The Sultan’s fortress redoubt, the Kasbah, overlooks the Djemaa El Fna while a hospice, mosques, the Imperial palace, parade grounds and a garden all ring this gorgeous monument to local prosperity. Caravans regularly arrive, passing through one of the city’s nineteen gates and bringing both trade from distant lands and Suﬁ mystics who wish to study and debate with the local ascetics inside the impressive walls. Many Suﬁ mystics use caves in the Marrakesh’s surrounding hillsides as shelter, coming into Marrakesh on Fridays for communal prayer. Since the 1180’s, when the Sultan Abu Yusuf Ya’qub al-Mansur began construction of the Koutoubia Mosque and a renovation of the Kasbah, Suﬁs have been welcome and encouraged in Marrakesh. Now, the area around the mosque is rife with booksellers who cater to the proliﬁc Suﬁ authors.''
''STORYGUIDE TIP: DESCRIBING MARRAKESH''
''Marrakesh is the most opulent part of the Maghreb. Local bricks are often carved from pink stone. Gardens are a luxury, so they are particularly common here compared to other cities. When describing them, emphasize greenery, ﬂowing water, and shade. This is the best city for fantasy elements inspired by The Arabian Nights, many of which are neither Arabic nor medieval. Marrakesh is also the city with the deepest shadows. The empire is crumbling. Many people are using the confusion to settle scores. Others are having as much fun as they can before society collapses, even if that makes the Empire fall that little bit faster. Thieves here are particularly proﬁcient, by birth, as are assassins, by training. When you need a setting or character on the ﬂy, choose something to do with the court, or with the criminal classes.''
''AN EMPIRE IN DECLINE''
''This city is the capital of the Almohads, whose empire seems to be in decline. The Empire suffered a crushing defeat in 1212 at the Battle of Al-Uqab (Las Navas de Tolosa). Over 100,000''
''soldiers, mostly loyalists from the African territories of the Empire, were lost, along with the revenue from most of the Iberian territories. This has been followed by a series of defeats closer to home. The most recent occurred 1217, outside Fes, where Marinid tribesmen defeated the Almohad army, and were only prevented from taking the second city of the Empire by a lack of skill in siege warfare. These Marinid forces still control the Rif, and the rulers of Marrakesh seem unable to dislodge them. The current ruler is a seventeen year old boy. He is incapable of providing charismatic leadership to the nobility of his kingdom. Instead, an oligarchy of his close relatives control the parts still within his effective power. These relatives constantly feud. A group of governors, who still accept the ruler’s suzerainty, but in an increasingly nominal way, rule more distant territories. These include: Ab Muammad Abd al-Wahid bin Yusef, the governor of Sijilmassa, Yusef ibn Ali, the governor of Tinmal, Abdul-Wahid, the viceroy of Ifriqiya, Abu Zayd bin Yujjan, the governor of Tlemcen, and Abu Zakariya, the governor of Fez. Additionally, the governors of Al-Andalus and the island of Majorca might have designs on the title of Caliph, in an attempt to move power across the Strait to Iberia. None of these governors wants to be the ﬁrst to break away. The Almohads might still have one good battle in them. Refugees ﬂeeing Iberia might have revitalized the core Almohad cities, allowing them to ﬁeld a more powerful army than expected. They might cut a deal with the Kings of Castile for aid. This means that each governor needs to answer a call to arms. At the same time, no governor wants to lose his best followers or his treasure in supporting the Almohads until the next crisis comes. All a governor need do to be independent, or perhaps even the next ruler of Marrakesh, is to make sure that someone else exhausts himself while destroying the Almohads.''

==Saga Seeds==

''The decaying empire offers many opportunities for storytelling. Some require a little political meddling, which must be handled carefully to avoid breaching the Code.''
''A NEW RULER''
''The player characters are approached by one of the cousins of the ruler. He may live in Marrakesh, or be a prisoner taken into Christian lands after capture at the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa. Players in this saga ﬁnd ways to kill the other claimants to Almohad rule, while avoiding blame, and diverting mounting suspicion. While hollowing out the oligarchy, the player characters may place appointees more loyal to them than their patron. They may also need to complete stories that help hold the Empire together, so that their patron inherits enough to repay his debt to the player characters.''
''AIDING A GOVERNOR''
''The Empire is declining, but no clear successor has emerged. Even without direct military intervention, magi have a great deal to offer any of the regional governors. They can spy on rivals, assess their plans, perform sabotage, improve the local economy, and allow their patron to strike his enemies in times of weakness. Player characters who succeed in these ploys eventually have substantial connections in the new capital of North Africa.''
''INVITED IN''
''The Almohads are desperate to keep their kingdom together and are trying all kinds of things to bolster their economy. Most recently they have tried importing vast numbers of Christians, and even some Jews, from Spain, settling them in Fes. They are seeking treaties of alliance with Christian monarchs, even those with whom war is so traditional as to be almost a duty. A cousin of the ruler may seek out a redcap, and send a message to''
''the Order that some dhimmi magi would be welcome to settle in the new foreign quarters of Fes. Player characters who are skilled diplomats could stretch this invitation. The Almohads are desperate enough that the right to settle elsewhere, and some ﬁnancial assistance, could be extracted. This might be particularly generous if the magi are willing to reclaim areas only nominally held by the Almohads, like the Rif.''
''REVENGE AGAINST THE ORDER''
''House Flambeau has always hinted that it might be in some way responsible, with the possible assistance of God, for the stunning victory at Las Navas de Tolosa. Many other magi assume they meddled in the outcome. The Islamic forces suffered up to 150,000 casualties compared to 2,000 Christians, mostly from religious ﬁghting Orders whom the Flambeau ﬁnd inconvenient. Characters wanting to operate in Morocco need to remember this history: elements of House Flambeau quite likely broke the rules about annoying mundanes on''
''the basis that there was no-one left to harm their sodales. Even if they did not, they are strongly suspected of having done so. Player characters coming to Morocco are entering the home territories of those who want revenge for the battle that cracked the Empire. Conversely, player characters who strongly identify themselves with the Order may ﬁnd they have ready allies among those gnawing at the Empire’s edges.''

==Virtues for the Thieves of Marrakesh==

''The City of Marrakesh is named from the words “to cross over” or “to hide.” Some digniﬁed scholars claim that this is because it was a fortress that watched over the whole country. Many locals disagree, and say it was a tribute to the skill of the horse thieves who used to raid this camp, crossing over the walls and then hiding with the livestock. People from Marrakesh who choose to follow this profession, are just innately better as thieves than other people.''
''Some local wise men suggest that they all share the blood of some legendary hero. Characters need only take Virtues which suit them to crime if they use these Abilities frequently. Virtues which particularly suit thieves include: Afﬁnity with (Athletics, Awareness, Legerdemain or Stealth), Cautious with (Athletics, Awareness, Legerdermain or Stealth), Intuition, Keen Vision, Light Touch, Perfect Balance, Premonitions, Puissant (Athletics, Awareness, Legerdemain or Stealth), Ways of the Town.''
''ALL ACCORDING TO PLAN (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''Once per session, a player whose character has this Virtue can reroll a botch die. The character has prepared, in advance, for this exact failure and has a contingency plan, which the player must describe.''
''FALLS LIKE A CAT (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''The character is not injured by falls of up to three times his height, or six times his height if he can soften his fall by catching on windowsills, breaking through awnings, or hitting branches on the way down. At greater heights the character suffers Impact damage of +1 for every additional foot, if landing on a hard surface, or for every additional four feet, if landing on a soft surface.''
''INDESCRIBABLE FACE (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''After meeting this character, other characters usually ﬁnd it hard to describe him sufﬁciently well to separate him from others. Some forgettable characters are just average height and weight, with unremarkable features. Others have a particular feature which is so striking it crowds out other memories. He has an ostentatious hat. She was carrying a little dog. The characters can recall the striking feature, but little else. A player who selects this Virtue for his character needs to select which form of the Virtue his character has.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Pavilion with Three Items==

''When the characters capture a thief who has violated their covenant, the man offers to give them a tale of great treasure in exchange for his freedom, a treasure he swears to be true. Given the chance, he tells them of a pavilion in the garden of a house in Marrakesh. The house belongs to three brothers, who have never entered the pavilion, as their father forbade it on his deathbed. Inside there is a sheepskin rug, a cap, and a hashish pipe. Each of these items is magical. The sheepskin transports the person who sits upon it, in the blink of an eye, to the place they request. The person need not have seen the place, and it the instruction can be conditional, such as “Wherever the person who stole my trousers has gone.” The sheepskin travels with the user, so they are not stranded unless it is taken from them. The cap makes the wearer invisible. The wearer is still audible. Similarly, he can be detected by animals''
''who have a strong sense of smell, like dogs. Items worn or held by the wearer are also made invisible, but it does not affect mounts, nor does it hide objects, like statues. The hashish pipe, when used, does not emit smoke when the user exhales. Instead, it transforms the smoke into small gold ingots. These are of apparently limitless supply, but there are two limiting factors. The pipe actually needs to be smoked, so the characters will eventually run out of hashish, although they can use the ingots to buy more. Further, as the pipe needs to be smoked, the person using it is not in his right mind. The character is placed under the control of the storyguide, who is encouraged to create stories centering on the humiliation of the character. Characters using the hash pipe often get themselves into terrible trouble using the other two objects. This is why the merchant forbade the pavilion to his sons.''

|}
''A character who is simply average is always forgettable. He can’t turn the ability off and may use props when building a Reputation among other criminals. He may be “that guy in the black gloves who strangles people,” for example, although no-one recalls precisely what he looks like. Intimately related characters can eventually become sufﬁciently used to the character’s forgettable face that they remember it. A character who distracts with a prop is memorable when she wishes to be. She can simply not use her devices of distraction if she wishes to make an impression. She can also switch her distracting prop. For example if she hears that someone is looking for a lady with a curious dog, she might switch to a baby, or a curious hat. A character who distracts with props is usually not recognized by random people in crowds (whose eyes also follow the prop, not the face), but this protection is less perfect than a truly forgettable face.''
''JUST AN INSTANT (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''A character with this Virtue, who has had a few seconds to look about a room, does not need to make Awareness checks to detect or remember anything of interest on the room’s exposed surfaces. Some characters use this Virtue to discover the layout of a space so they can navigate it in the dark, while others use it to save time while stealing. Characters with this Virtue are also useful lab assistants, because they know where everything is, and are aware of experiments about to critically fail.''
''FINDING HIDDEN LOOT (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''A character with this Virtue gains a +9 bonus to Awareness rolls when searching a conﬁned space for hidden items, provided they can move the contents of the space about undisturbed.''
''RAT UP A DRAINPIPE (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''Using a mixture of acrobatics, climbing and dodging, this character can run through urban areas as if unobstructed. This gives a substantial advantage''
''in opposed Athletics rolls, which represent being chased.''
''SCHOOLED IN CRIME (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''The character has been trained extensively in the criminal arts, and has 50 additional experience to spend on Abilities related to thievery. Area Lore, Athletics, Awareness, Bargain, Brawl, Charm, Guile, Legerdemain and Stealth are all suitable, and other Abilities may be added to this list with troupe approval.''
''SEES IN THE DARK (MINOR SUPERNATURAL VIRTUE)''
''The character suffers no penalty for activities in low light, or even complete darkness, making Awareness rolls without penalty.''
''SKILLED SMUGGLER (MINOR GENERAL VIRTUE)''
''The character can hide one item on his person, and attempts to ﬁnd it suffer a –9 penalty on Awareness rolls. The item cannot be larger than a dag''
''ger, and the character may swap which items are hidden with a few minutes of work. Wealthy characters often procure collapsible tools to use in conjunction with this Virtue.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==New Sample Childhoods for Those Raised by Thieves==

''If a player is using the Detailed Character Creation Rules given on page 31 of the core rulebook, she may wish to use these suggested childhood Ability sets.''
''Child burglar: Awareness 2, Bargain 2, Native Language 5, Stealth 2. Child grifter: Charm 2, Guile 2, Legerdemain 2, Native Language 5. Child lookout: Awareness 2, Legerdemain 2, Native Language 5, Stealth 2. Child runner: Area Lore 2, Athletics 2, Legerdermain 2, Native Language 5.''

==The Sons of Sāsān==

''In Arabic folklore, including the Maghreb, there are stories of a shadowy organization that nurtures bandits, thieves, murderers, prostitutes and other criminals. It is said to have arisen when a Persian prince named Sāsān lost his kingdom, and in his wanderings and depredations drew about himself a family of evildoers as retainers. The descendants of this court of villainy form a tribe, the Banû Sāsān, and aid each other against outsiders. They are said to be ruled, in each city, by a Beggar King. They are said to have tainted blood which aids in their crimes, they are said to run schools for each other’s children, and they are whispered to have unhallowed places where they perform dark rites, to gain the power to commit greater evils. Most criminals claim to belong to this group, although how tight a family this clan really forms will vary between sagas. All criminals in the Magreb know an argot (called the monōḡāt Banī Sāsān) which is based on Arabic, but ﬁlled with loan words, particularly from Persian and Kurdish. Much like Cockney slang in English, its allows people of a certain class to demonstrate kinship with other people of that class, and private communication of basic concepts while in the presence of outsiders. Much like Cockney slang, however, it is clear to listeners who speak only the more broadly used version of the language that the character is speaking an odd and incomprehensible dialect. Characters with a criminal background and an Arabic skill of at least 3 have the ability to speak the argot.''

|}

==Fes==

''Fes is the second city of the Empire, and has been invigorated by the arrival of refugees from Iberia.''
''STORYGUIDE TIP: DESCRIBING FES''
''Fes has the oldest university-like school in the region, and was, for centuries, the Imperial capital of North Africa. Even the laborers of Fes are interested in quoting the sayings of the Prophet to each other and discussing what they mean. The color green is particularly prevalent in Fes. Mix that with areas ﬁlled with tiles of a deep blue, placed in perfect geometric shapes, so that as the sun washes across them they become reﬂective and luminous. When describing Fes, emphasize how venerable parts of it are. Contrast this with how fragile it is. Three years ago Fes almost fell to the nomads. The last time a nomad tribe raided North Africa they pulled all the cities down, and destroyed all of the aqueducts, on the basis that cities were nothing but''
''resupply points for their enemies. In other parts of the Maghreb the decline of the Empire has led to squalidness, as people temper their fatalism with hedonism. The faith of the people of Fes guides them away from the sordidness found in other towns. The age of the Madrasa (a word which means “school” but in this case refers to something similar to a university) can also be contrasted with the new areas of the city. Many refugees from Iberia have settled in Fes. Aside from the Muslims is a vibrant Jewish quarter, and a surprising number of Christians. A local who wants diversion from his life can go to the new quarter. There, he hear music played on new instruments, discuss novel ideas, and eat food made with weird ingredients. This quarter is, in a very real sense, what rich locals do instead of bars and brothels.''
''Art and Academe, which describes European universities, has many plot hooks suitable for play in Fes.''

==Tunis==

''The city of Tunis is the largest port in the Maghreb. It has been a center of trade, and also of naval power, for the Almohads since they invaded this part of Africa in 1057. The loss of al-Andalus weakened the Almohads, preventing them from supporting the stronger navy they once possessed.''
''STORYGUIDE TIP: DESCRIBING TUNIS''
''Tunis is strikingly white. Particularly under the sweltering African sun, the city’s whitewashed walls seem unnaturally clean. The doors of many houses are painted ultramarine. The layout of the markets in this city has been carefully considered. The central mosque is surrounded by the markets for perfume (north), cloth (west), wool (south) and dried fruit and booksellers (east). Other markets circle outward in rings, becoming increasingly unsanitary as the characters enter poorer areas of the city.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Al-Kairouine Madrasa==

''In the eighth century a pair of sisters, heiresses to a wealthy merchant, moved to Fes from Kairouan. One of these women used her inheritance to build a mosque. With the aid of other emigrants from her home city, this mosque was so well provided for that a school could be opened. By 1220, it is a great center of learning, drawing students from the Arabic world, and from the small communities in the Christian kingdoms of the Mediterranean. Students are taught theology and Islamic law as core subjects. Many others also learn the Artes Liberales and practical subjects. Some stories suggest that a few teachers are astrologers, or in some other way magical. The traditional form of the lecture in these universities is that the teacher sits in a chair, and the students gather about to hear the lesson. In times of plenty, the living costs of students at Al-Kairouine are covered by subsidies from the institution or donations from rich nobles or merchants. During the current difﬁculties, students need to ﬁnd ways to supplement their income. They have many skills which are of use to Hermetic covenants. All are literate and are able to navigate mundane society. Many have useful Area Lores, and some have (Realm) Lore scores, generally favoring the Divine.''

==Vis Source: Figs of Two Colours==

''Outside Fes there is a ﬁg tree which bears fruit out of season. Some of its fruit are white, others are black. If anyone eats the black fruit, horns emerge from his forehead (Monstrous Appearance Flaw.) The horns are also terribly sensitive, and cause the bearer great pain if struck. If the victim eats the white ﬁgs, the horns retract and disappear. It is said that a leper once married the daughter of the Sultan of Fes by tricking the ruler into eating the black ﬁgs, dressing as a foreign magician, the offering him the white ones as a cure. Some Hermetic hearers of this story may wonder if this leper was a magus, and where his tomb lies. The ﬁgs themselves contain Muto vis.''

==Vis Site: Molting Beetle Husks==

''In a hidden canyon wadi, a day’s travel east of Marrakesh, scarab beetles of Virtue gather to shed their skins and dry in the bright desert sun. The husks are a sparkling indigo hue, and some Tuareg use them to dye their veils. When the husks are gathered in the late summer, after the sirocco has swept through the canyon, four pawns of Muto and Imaginem vis can be found. However, these husks also produce the most vibrant colored veils, and the nomads in the area prize them. Any magus attempting to acquire this source will need to come to terms with the tribe. It will not do to simply promise them the husks once the vis is removed, as this process destroys the useful properties of the shed carapaces. Aggressive actions may result in unpleasant future consequences for the magi, as this tribe often serves as guides to southbound caravans, and hold grudges across generations.''

|}
''This means that the settings in which scenes may take place become more steadily more physically sordid the further characters get from the rich center of town, in a way entirely predictable to the residents of the city. Tunis faces a lake, and depends on the ocean, so proximity to the water is also an important thematic element. When you need to rapidly choose a character or setting, consider something to do with sailors, the navy, or the water.''

==Tripoli==

''Tripoli is “the gateway to the Great Desert,” the primary port in the gold and slave trade in the eastern Maghreb. It was originally a Carthaginian port called Oea, which eventually absorbed two neighboring cities and changed its name to reﬂect that it was three (tri-) cities (polis) combined into one. It is now the port most friendly to dhimmis, as it is dependent on their trade, even for sufﬁcient bread to feed itself.''
''STORYGUIDE TIP: DESCRIBING TRIPOLI''
''In most other cities in the Maghreb, people describe the medinas as ﬁlled with twisty, narrow streets, but Tripoli is an exception. Characters used to the cities founded by Romans in Europe will see many features in the layout of Tripoli that are familiar. For example, the city is divided into four quarters by two great roads that form a cross. At the center of the cross are a mosque and a fortress. Most of the city is the color of yellow sandstone, although parts are pink and the fortress is red. Tripoli has the remnants of many cultures, layered one above the other. It was settled by the Phoenicians, refounded''

==Saga Seed: Rebellious Governor==

''As described in the earlier section about the decaying empire, many Almohad governors wish to rebel. None, however, wants to spend men and treasure to exhaust the forces of Marrakesh, only to be conquered by another governor who has kept his forces intact. If your saga’s history follows that of the real world, the most successful rebel is the governor of Tunis. For the Hafsids, the governing family of this and several nearby towns, to gain independence, they need to keep circumstances favorable. This generates many stories for magi supporting their ascent to power. To successfully rebel the Hafsids must juggle many factors.''
''ALMOHAD NAVY''
''The sailors of the Almohad Navy also serve as a large force of light infantry. It is impossible for the Hafsids to rebel without killing inﬂuential captains in the ﬂeet, or luring them away from Almohad service. Ambushing captains on land is easy, but suspicious. Defeating them at sea is more difﬁcult, but easier for a Hafsid puppet-ruler to cover up. This hook motivates stories of intrigue, assassination, and combat.''
''TRADE WITH ITALY''
''Trade with Italy is vital to the hopes of the Hafsids: disruption for as little as a year could end any attempt at rebellion. Desert goods ﬂow out to the Christian lands, providing money that is used to maintain armies and political support. At the same time, Tunis cannot support itself without wheat imported from Sicily. Without regular shipments, the people will starve, riot, and serve anyone who can promise an end to the famine. This hook motivates travel, to the sources of Italian and desert trade goods, and to clear up disruptions in supply. It also motivates diplomatic stories. In the real world, slightly after 1220, Italian city states started founding embassies in Tunis, to compete for shares of the market, and the favor of the ruler.''
''CONQUER TRIPOLI''
''In the east of the Maghreb, two ports trade, in some volume, with Europeans: Tunis and Tripoli. To increase their power, the Hafsids could draw both ports under their suzerainty. This is less difﬁcult than it appears, because Tripoli has only a weak navy, and no great agricultural hinterland. Tripoli is even more dependent on imported wheat than Tunis is: a blockade for six''
''months might be enough to starve out the Almohad governor. Keeping Tripoli subdued is difﬁcult, however. A trustworthy governor is particularly important, as is diplomacy or war with the desert tribes.''
''STORY SEED: THE SERPENT OF BAGRADAS RIVER''
''Magi seeking a covenant site may research the stories of North Africa, and discover that a suitable place lies just over twenty miles north of Tunis, at the mouth of the Bagradas River. Historians record that during the ﬁrst Punic War, a Roman general fought a serpent which had a lair there. The battle took hours, even though he deployed his entire force and their siege engines. Once the beast was slain, its skin was shipped to Rome, and measured 120 feet long. Magical creatures, by their nature, prefer to make their homes in Magical auras. For a creature to rest inside an aura, it must be larger than the creature. Therefore, it’s clear that a site of at least of moderate magical power, 3 or greater, and of sufﬁcient size to build laboratories, exists at the mouth of the Bagradas River. Characters exploring the site may face lesser serpents, the ghosts of Roman soldiers, or their reanimated bodies.''
''by the Greeks, traded with by the Egyptians, conquered by the Romans, taken by the Arabs, invaded by the Normans, and now is back in Berber hands. The practitioners of most Western schools of magic had time to establish colonies here. Given that the Normans were partially Christianised Norse warriors who had stopped off in northern France for a generation, even druids and Odinites might have made it to Tripoli. Magi, and other knowledgeable seekers, can ﬁnd remnants of the various layers of mystical occupation in this city. Characters created on the ﬂy should have some sort of link to ruins or artifacts from the earlier rulers.''

==Other Communities of the North Central Tell==

''These are towns and communities located nearer to the northern coast of the Maghreb.''
''SHARSHAL''
''Offshoots of the old Roman Northern road connect the main causeway to Caesarea, or Sharshal as it is now called, and Saldae, the current city of En Nassria. Both are busy ports along the Maghreb coast and have seen the bulk of their Roman structures recycled into the current buildings.''
''TAHERT''
''In a high, central pass sits Tahert, a lightly-populated terminus of the slave trade better known for the many ruined stone tombs, called “jedars,” to the south. It once supported a sizable community of Jews, though only a few remain. The people here never truly recovered after being conquered by the Fatimid Caliph in 933. Tahert is currently ruled by the Governor of Tlemcen.''
''TLEMCEN''
''Tlemcen, once the small fort town (castra) of Pomeria, has since grown into an inﬂuential terminus of the Great Desert caravan routes. Families, like the al Makkari, manage it and ensure the great wealth of the desert continues to ﬂow into the coffers of the Caliphate. This wealth brings construction, and nearly all of the Roman construction in Tlemcen has since been reincorporated into the many buildings and the protective wall.''
''ALGIERS''
''Initially a Phoenician city, then Roman, and currently occupied by the kasbah of Algiers, Icosium was founded by twenty companions of Heracles. Dominated by whitewashed architecture, and built right to the shoreline, Algiers has several Roman cemeteries in the sea-cliffs to the west, and a high wall. Like Tlemcen, the wall recycled large amounts of demolished Imperial masonry when Arabs rejuvenated the site in 942 AD.''
''RUINS OF NOTE''
''Abandoned but spectacular ruins still stand in places like Djémila, located at the conﬂuence of two rivers, where there are arches, partially standing basilicas, a pair of fora, crumbling houses and temples, as well as a beautifully preserved amphitheater, and the forgotten mountain fortress of Tifesh, with its 3-pace-thick outer walls and three crumbling basilicas. Either of these sites, with a remnant Magic aura of 3, might serve as a site for a covenant.''

==Other Communities of the Eastern Tell==

''These are towns and cities located in the region near Tunis and its coast. The ruins of Carthage proper are discussed in greater detail later.''
''QUSANTINA''
''Able to resist the Visigoths, but conquered by the Arabs in the seventh century and renamed Qusantina, the former city of Constantine now supports a prosperous market with connections to Pisa, Genoa and Venice. Fondly called''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Lost Virgilian Magics==

''The mosaics and auras hint at the presence of a previously unknown cabal of Virgilian sorcerers who once called Hadrumetum home. Fleeing the onslaught of the Arab army, they left a number of their texts and handiwork in the catacombs for safekeeping. Unfortunately, they never returned and their lost notes may lead the characters to Soussa. However, as the magi begin their investigations, they learn someone else is also searching the crypts. Do sahirs, infernalists, renegade Hermetics or the Augustan Brotherhood stalk them within the tunnels?''

==Kairouan==

''Kairouan is the fourth most holy city in Islam, and non-Muslims are forbidden to enter large sections of it, on pain of death. One of the oldest mosques, and certainly the largest, in North Africa stands here, believed to be the model for all of the other mosques in this region. This mosque acts as a focus of pilgrimages and religious study. Kairouan has the highest Dominion aura of any city in the Maghreb. Kairouan’s reputation as a center of learning, and as a court for the exilarchs of the Jews, was destroyed after the city was sacked in to 1057. Reconstruction remains incomplete. The Jews have ﬂed Kairouan, mostly to Egypt. Its scholars decamped to Tunis. Lost libraries may be found in the ruins, hidden in the sudden escape.''

|}
''“the City of Bridges,” Qusantina sits on a high plateau surrounded by a deep ravine, with several bridges and a treacherous natural rock arch crossing the cave-riddled gorge of the Rhumel river. The nearby hilltop ruins of Tiddis include an entry arch to a well-preserved complex of paved streets, a Mithraeum with a Magic aura of 3, cisterns, and a small forum. This site would serve as an excellent basis for a starting covenant in the area.''
''SOUSSA''
''Founded in 1100 BC by the Phoenicians, Hadrumetum was one of the most important communities within the Roman territory in northern Africa because of its strategic location on the sea in the heart of Numidia. Now called Soussa, it allied with Rome early in the Third Punic war, and ﬂourished until the Arabs arrived in the 6th century. The army of Oqba Ibn Nafîi utterly destroyed the city, leaving nothing of the last 1700 years standing. The conquerors renamed the site Soussa and rebuilt using the debris, but the legacy of the Punic and Roman heritage was hidden under the new city. Many mosaics showing the poet Virgil, fantastic creatures, or Hellenistic gods survived, and the Roman and Christian catacombs still exist beneath the streets. Some areas of the catacombs strangely maintain a Magic aura of 4.''
''BOUNA''
''Hippo Regius grew from a colony ﬁrst settled by the Phoenicians in the 12th century BC; it garnered the appellation Regius, “of the King,” after serveral Numidian kings erected pyramid tombs there. Situated near the mouth of the river Ubus, it became a major city in Roman Africa, famously known as the bishopric of Saint Augustine of Hippo in his later years. Many synods and councils convened in Hippo, helping establish the accepted books of the New Testament. It was conquered by the Arabs in 698, but they left the ancient site in the ninth century and moved a league north, calling the new city “Bouna Al Haditha,” or Bouna the New. The abandoned ruins include the largest theater''
''in Africa, and the mostly destroyed Basilica of St. Augustine. The shell of the Basilica still contains a saint’s relic (with 3 Faith Points) beneath the rubble of the altar, and offers a Divine aura of 3 within the structure.''
''TBESSA, LAMBAESIS, AND TAMAGUDI''
''To the south, military roads lead from Qusantina and Bouna to Roman Theveste, now Tbessa, and the nearby legionary town of Lambaesis; both possess extensive Roman remains. Tbessa is surrounded by a Byzantine wall with thirteen square towers, and its ruins include an amphitheater, a nearly complete Temple of Minerva, and the remains of the basilica of St. Crispinus, which include chapels, baptism urns, catacombs and gardens. Lambaesis is unoccupied, but has triumphal arches, undisturbed Roman graveyards, dry aqueducts and''
''the skeletal remains of temples to Aesculapius, Minerva, Jupiter, and Juno. No Christian inscriptions exist in the town, and it still has a Magic aura of 4, centered on the temples. Of particular interest, a column in the encampment bears the complete text of Emperor Hadrian’s address to the Legio III Augusta. Only Tamagudi, seven leagues to the west, has better preserved ruins in all of Numidia, although roughly similar remaining structures. Hermetic wizards seeking to establish a covenant might be able to make the site habitable with some effort.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vis Site: Heady Lotus Blooms==

''Found all over Djerba, the thorny lotus shrub grows very sweet berries, about an inch across with a hard seed. These are dried, processed into a sweet liquor, and eaten fresh. The berries grow from yellow or crème colored ﬂowers with a distinctive ﬁve-petal and ﬁve-stamen bloom. The Lotophagi grow stands of the Lotus of Virtue, creating the narcotic fruits which held Odysseus’ crew enthralled. Hidden in a secluded gully along a nearly inaccessible stretch of the shoreline, an unattended copse of Lotus of Virtue thrives. Collecting the ripe berries here in the morning of the summer solstice yields three pawns of Herbam and three pawns of Mentem vis. If three seeds of the Lotus of Virtue are enriched by exposing them to only the light of the full moon for a year, and then keeping them in a sealed amulet afterwards, the wearer gains the Clear Thinker virtue.''

==Story Seed: To Claim a Wife==

''In one of the villages south of Girba, the mosque is renowned for a very special reason. The locals always leave the mosque by dusk, lest they encounter the group of capricious jinn who appear in the early evening, always accompanied by their many beautiful wives. It is said that any man who can survive a night in the company of the jinn may take one of their wives for his own. The jinn demand any suitor succeed at a series of tasks which change for each hopeful. Sometimes they require feats of strength, other times they demand the answer to a medley of riddles, or the discovery of an out-of-place object, and occasionally they ask for an entertaining story they have never heard before. Those who fail become slaves of the Jinn, whisked away to serve them for seven years. The wives are sometimes jinn and at other times they are human slaves caught or purchased by the jinn, but they always remain beautiful, even after departing the mosque.''

|}

==Islands of North Africa==

''There are relatively few Mediterranean islands along the Maghreb coast, but the two most prominent are Djerba and Malta.''

==Djerba==

''Continuously occupied since the Phoenicians ﬁrst settled it, this low lying island is one of the few along the north African coast. Once conquered by Roger of Sicily in the early 12th century, temperate and beautiful Djerba was the home of the Lotophagi, the magical lotus-eaters mentioned in the ancient tales of Odysseus. Known as Meninx by the Phoenicians and Girba by the Romans, villages and small communities litter''
''the landscape. On the north side of the island, the ghost town of Girba stands mostly unoccupied with its walls and structures in good repair; its only visitors are pirates and traveling merchants who meet with residents from the large village of Midoun to trade. El Kantara, known in antiquity as Meninx Proper, and Ajim, formerly the Roman town of Tipasa, occupy the opposite southern corners. Well-maintained Roman roads connect all three and a Roman era bridge stretches from El Kantara to the mainland. Local industries include weaving, agriculture, olive oil production, and ceramics. A very few craftsmen in El Kantara know the secret of creating the purple murex dye found only here and on the isle of Mogador. Several diverse groups call Djerba home. A league south of Girba, large group of Jews have lived in the village Hara Seghira since before the fall of the Second Temple. Built with stones taken from Temple Mount, the Ghriba synagogue is their religious and social center. Considered a pilgrimage site for Kabbalists and those wishing to celebrate the''
''holiday of Lag BaOmer, the synagogue boasts a Divine aura of 5. An enclave of Ibadi Muslims, similar to those in the oasis of Ghardaia, live in Ajim but shun outsiders and worship in underground mosques. The Lotophagi disappeared long ago, retreating into a few isolated regiones scattered about the island and marked by clusters of lotus shrubs. They avoid the current residents and appear very rarely to collect Lotus Fruit of Virtue on the Summer Solstice.''

==Malta==

''Currently a part of the Holy Roman Empire, as a holding of the House of Hohenstaufen, Malta is largely a fortiﬁed garrison, dedicated to its own protection at the detriment of nearly any other activity after alternately being mostly depopulated and then recolonized by Arabs before becoming a part of the Kingdom of Sicily. It has been a Phoenecian, Roman, Vandal, Arab, and even Norman outpost over the years. Three main islands comprise the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Cyclopskin Handiwork==

''A number of dolmens and ancient structures point to the race of singleeyed, sharp tusked giants which once lived on Malta. Their heavy wagons pushed deep ruts even into the stones all over the island. Occasionally, after a ﬂood or earthquake, a skeleton of one of these enormous cyclopskin is found. Legends state they disappeared long ago, before the Romans ruled Malta, but they did not leave. The giants retreated into regiones, seeking out the caves, like Ghar Dalam, and living beneath the land. Some claim recent earthquakes experienced by the island are the result of the giants at war deep in the earth. These regiones can be entered when the night of the winter solstice coincides with a new moon; explorers must delve deep into the rock of Ghar Dalam without light sources, eventually emerging into the subterranean vaults of the cyclopskin. Can the giants be convinced to stop their war before the cities above are shaken to the ground?''

|}
''archipelago. They are Malta, the largest, Gozo, and Comino, the smallest. Tiny Comino is sparsely populated, with a few farmers and shepherds eking out a rough existence. Caves riddle the sheer limestone cliffs of the island, and a pious sorcerer named Kerrew often occupies them. However, he has a magic cloak which allows him to ﬂy, and he occasionally goes to the main island of Malta for extended periods. Pirates sometimes use the caves to hide before ambushing sailing vessels. When a group stays too long, often Kerrew appears to rout them with his magics and reclaim his subterranean sanctuary. These caves have a Magic aura of 4. Gozo is the second largest island of the trio. Local legends claim it served as the home of the nymph Calypso, daughter of the titan Atlas, who held Odysseus captive for seven years because of her love for him. While he was imprisoned there, she bore him two sons, Nausinous and Nausithous, as well as a daughter. His''
''Mythic bloodline occasionally surfaces amongst the population, with many of the women showing the Blessing of Venus or Great Presence, and at least one magus from this island claimed descent from Odysseus, bearing the power to manifest Aura of Rightful Authority. Evidence of Calypso’s titan relatives is most apparent in the form of the enormous stone structure at Ggantija. Built by a giantess and enclosed by a boundary wall, the clover-shaped complex and nearby stone circle sport Magic auras of 4. The giantess herself has not been seen in living memory. Some claim she sleeps in a nearby cave, awaiting the return of her lover. Malta has a strong Christian tradition, as Paul of Tarsus was shipwrecked on the island in 59 AD for three months and proselytized the inhabitants, healing the sick and founding the Christian community there. The Cathedral of Mdina, the capital, is dedicated to St. Paul and was extensively repaired after it''
''fell into disrepair during the Muslim rule of Malta. Both it and the nearby catacombs in the village of Ir-Rabat, where early Christians held their secret Mass, have a Divine aura of 5.''

==The Eastern Coast: Cyrenaica==

''Settled by Greek refugees from the volcanic island of Thera in the Aegean, the plains below the Jebel Akhdar (Arabic: “the Green Mountain”) were once known as the Pentapolis, a collection of small city-states initially dominated by the eponymous inland city of Kurene (known as Cyrene in Latin). After the Arab invasion of 643 the area became al-Maghrib al Adna (“the Nearest West”)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Kura, the Nereid of the Sacred Spring==

''Once venerated by the citizens of Cyrene, the nymph Kura has retreated to within her regio. She can be reached only by following the rivulet from her sacred spring upstream from where it joins the river that passes through the local necropolis on its way to the Mediterranean. Currently the only human aware of Kura’s ongoing presence is Zeynab, the youngest daughter of the village’s headman. The girl stumbled into the nereid’s regio last spring and has recently begun to visit the watery maiden regularly. Kura is ancient enough to remember the true appearance of the herb silphium (see later) and her local knowledge of the surrounding region may prove invaluable with any search for the remaining wild silphium groves above the city. She can be ﬂattered into helping with the quest through either sacriﬁce in her honor or restoration of her shrine, but as a genius loci she cannot leave the sacred precinct surrounding her spring. She may use Zeynab as her intermediary by using a Spiritual Pact and accepting the girl as her chosen Spirit Votary (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 88–89) This powerful nereid may potentially be coaxed into becoming a patron spirit''
''for a Theban style covenant (see The Sundered Eagle, pages 30–31) in Cyrenaica, but is wary of Hermetic magi, having encountered hostile Berber and Arab wizards previously. Her price for any long-term arrangement will include adulation or veneration, even to the extent of demanding one of the magi submit to a Spiritual Pact and a promise to restore her public worship. Although adulation could be concealed, the open establishment of a pagan community within the ruins of Cyrene risks breaching the Code of Hermes. Whether such an infringement can be policed on the edge of the Hermetic sphere of inﬂuence remains uncertain.''
''STORY SEED: THE REMAINS OF THE DAY''
''The ruins of the lighthouse on the small island outside the harbor of Apollonia occupy the centre of a small strength 3 Magic aura. Within the structure are the remains of a makeshift Hermetic laboratory, including a shattered oversized glass lens, a recently slain human corpse and signs of a struggle with a giant sea creature, such as loose scales,''
''scaly imprints on the corpse, or slithering tracks in the sand within the room. Diurnum Lumen was a Flambeau magus who recently took part in a previous failed Hermetic settlement attempt in Cyrenaica led by Jerbiton magi from the Theban Tribunal, although the expedition was abandoned less than a decade ago. Diurnum remained behind at the pharos site, attempting to reconstruct it for use in recovering the secrets of the Lineage of Abydaros, a lost African mystery cult dedicated to Apollo and associated with powers drawing on the light of the sun. The Hermetic wizard may have been the victim of Glaucus, a murderous Makhai (Theban variant of a Muspelli, see Rival Magic) who venerates the sea Titan Okeanos and his brood of sea monsters. Although the powerful nonHermetic wizard has since moved on, searching the site reveals clues about his crime. Magi resettling the pharos site may be able to reconstruct some of Diurnum’s experiments given time but risk drawing a return visit from the malicious Titan’s proxy and bringing ruin on their ﬂedgling covenant.''

|}
''and has become a backwater apart from the small inland town of Barce, ﬁrst the provincial capital of the Barqah region under the Fatimid Caliphate and now a town ruled by the distant Ayyubid sultans of Egypt. The other main settlement of the region is on the site of the ancient Greek city of Balagrae, now known as the village port of Sidi Rafaa, after a Companion of the Prophet, Ruwaiﬁ bin Thabit al-Ansari, entombed in the city. Despite their Islamic faith, the common folk of the area have inherited the ancient myths and stories of the original Greek settlers. The supernatural fauna''
''and ﬂora of the region are therefore more similar to mainland Greece than the culturally Arabic or Berber desert areas further west, making the region seem somewhat more familiar to magi and other characters from Europe when compared to the remainder of the African littoral. As an isolated area outside of an existing Tribunal but far from any signiﬁcant Islamic settlement, the hills of Cyrenaica make an appealing location for a Spring covenant of Theban magi, with or without the sponsorship of the magi’s elders. Magi interested in recovering some of the lost glory of the abandoned Greek colonies will ﬁnd''
''much to discover here, although a recent attempt at settling the area by the Children of Olympos (see The Sundered Eagle, pages 125–127) failed under mysterious circumstances.''

==The Ruins of Apollonia and Cyrene==

''Together with its port of Apollonia situated 8 miles to the north, Cyrene was a Roman metropolis and capital of the region until Diocletian favored its''

==Muqadam, the Barbary Lion of Virtue==

''Magic Might: 40 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com -4, Str +8, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +0 Size: +3 Season: Winter Conﬁdence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Master; Essential Virtue (Brave); Improved Characteristics (x2), Piercing Gaze, Puissant Brawl, Second Sight, Self-Conﬁdent, Tough, Wilderness Sense; Difﬁcult Underlings, Fury (lion captors), Proud (major); Infamous, Weakness (surrendering foes) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic, Greater Power, Major Virtue (Magical Master), Ritual Power x2; Gift of Speech, Improved Abilities, Improved Initiative (claws), Improved Might x7, Improved Powers x3, Improved Soak, Lesser Power x3, Personal Power x2; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Brave +6*, Proud +6, Fierce +3, Lion +3* Reputations: Fearsome (local) 4 Combat: Claws: Init +3, Attack +17, Defense +13, Damage +12 Bite: Init +0, Attack +15, Defense +10, Damage +11 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32)''
''Abilities: Animal Ken 5 (felines), Area Lore: Maghreb 4 (auras), Area Lore: Great Desert 4 (auras), Athletics 5 (pouncing), Awareness 4 (prey), Bargain 4 (setting terms), Brawl 7+2 (claws), Concentration 3 (Trackless Step), Dead Language: Latin 2 (conversation), Etiquette 4 (Beasts of Virtue), Folk Ken 3 (ﬁrst impressions), Guile 5 (misleading), Hunt 5 (gazelle), Leadership 6 (felines), Living Language: Arabic 4 (greetings), Living Language: Berber 4 (greetings), Organization Lore: Berber Tribes 3 (travel routes), Penetration 4 (Animal), Second Sight 4 (invisible things), Stealth 5 (stalking), Survival 5 (deserts), Wilderness Sense 4 (hazards) Powers: Know Thy Subject’s State, 4 points, Init –14, Animal. R: Arc, D: Mom, T: Boundary. By concentrating for a few moments, Muqadam may learn the physical state of any Beast of Virtue whose token of loyalty he possesses. InAn 35 (Base 3, +4 Arc, +4 Boundary): Ritual Power x2 (35 levels, +15 Penetration) He can recover Might spent in this way by resting in a Magic Aura of 4 or higher. Routing Bellow, 0 points, Init –3, Animal or Mentem. R: Voice, D: Diam, T: Sound. With a roar, Muqadam can cause those hearing him to ﬂee in fear. This affects humans and animals. ReAn(Me) 30 (Base 5, +1''
''Diam, +3 Sound, +1 Mentem requisite): Greater Power (30 levels, -3 Might cost, +5xp Penetration) Circle of Beast Warding, 4 points, Init –8, Animal. R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle. Muqadam can trace a ring in the earth which no mundane beast of Size +4 or less may cross. It ﬁnds use of this power for hunting to be distasteful, believing prey deserves the chance to run for its life. ReAn 20 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Ring, +3 Size): Lesser Power (20 levels, +5xp Penetration) Cowing Snarl, 0 points, Init 0, Animal or Mentem. R: Eye, D: Diam, T: Individual (Size +3). By gazing into the eyes of a man or beast of equal size or smaller, Muqadan forces the target to kneel in fear. ReAn 25 (Base 4, +1 Eye, +1 Diam, +2 Size, +1 Mentem requisite): Lesser Power (25 levels), Improved Powers x3 (-5 Might cost, +10 Initiative) Trackless Step, 2 points, Init –4, Terram. R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Individual. Sweeping behind him with his tail, Muqadam destroys his tracks as he walks. ReTe 10 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc): Lesser Power (10 levels, +15xp Concentration) Hunter’s Pounce, 3 points, Init –3, Animal. R: Pers, D: Mom, T: Individual (+3 Size). Muqadam may leap for 50 paces. ReAn 25 (Base 15, +2 Size): Personal Power (25 levels) Sleep with Eyes Open, 1 point, Init –2, Animal. R: Per, D: Sun, T: Individual''
''rival, Ptolemais, toward the end of the third century AD. It declined over the next century as the population and provincial governor shifted to the coastal site. Although a small Roman and then later Byzantine garrison survived in the fort converted from the forum at Cyrene for some time after, there has been no recorded civilian population since the Arab armies passed through in the seventh century. The smaller town of Apollonia on the old Roman coast road about 20 miles from Sidi Rafaa was renamed Sozusa after the god Apollon Soter (“the Savior”). By the ﬁfth century AD the''
''town was nominally Christian, however, and several abandoned churches are sited within the crumbling walls. Three small islands lie off the Mediterranean coast — the largest was the site of the original Theran shipyards, the smallest once acted as the end of the harbor’s western mole, and upon the third island just outside the harbor stood an ancient lighthouse or pharos. The land around the town has subsided considerably, with much of the ruins lying partially submerged, and only a small village marks the stop on the old coastal road from Alexandria to Leptis Magna. The Genoese have recently established a''
''small outpost here, and started expanding trade in the area. The unfettered Magic spirit of Kura, the water nymph of the sacred spring near the Temple of Apollon, still haunts the ruins of the inland site of Cyrene. A temple to the Faerie god Zeus lies near the track of the ruined Roman circus and shrines to Demeter and Dionysos are located within the old city walls. This inland site is dominated by a Faerie aura of 3 but the immediate grounds of the sacred spring have a Magic aura of 5 that leads to the regio where Kura dwells. The ruins of the Olympian temples have a corresponding higher''

==Muqadam, the Barbary Lion of Virtue (Cont’d)==

''(+3 Size). Muqadam sleeps with his eyes open, so enemies have a hard time taking him by surprise. ReAn 20 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +2 Size): Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might Cost) Natural Weapons: Large claws: Init 0, Attack +5, Defense +3, Damage +4; Large teeth: Init 0, Attack +4, Defense +1, Damage +3. Its hide gives it a Protection of +2. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are eight pawns of Animal in Muqadam’s mane. Appearance: A great tawny specimen, Muqadam is much larger than a regular lion, nearly as big as a moose or aurochs. His massive paws end in carefully sharpened, dark claws and his mane is full of small objects tied to locks of fur. His tail often swishes when he is irritated, or if lying down, his left rear foot twitches. His ﬂanks bear numerous scars and his right ear has a small notch in it near the peak.''
''Muqadam, the Barbary Lion of Virtue, is the greatest example of a creature often regarded as the largest and most impressive of lions. The Barbary Lion of Virtue exists to hunt and rule over the beasts of the Maghreb. He keeps a roaming court of creatures, attended by the lesser lords, weaker Lions of Virtue (See Realms of Power: Magic, page 60), Bears of Virtue, Jackals and Leopards of Virtue. Foxes and Griffon Vultures of Virtue often serve as his''
''heralds and spies, while Gazelles and Antelope regularly act as his messengers. His mane is covered in small tokens, Arcane Connections to members of the court and other vassals spread throughout his realm, given as a sign of their loyalty. A Barbary Ape of Virtue, Srba, acts as Muqadam’s valet and ties the tokens to his lord’s mane. The Lion tends to favor the Vultures over the Foxes, and the Antelope over the Gazelles. He considers the Leopards as peers, dislikes the Jackals’ attitude but appreciates their role, and ﬁnds the Bears both enigmatic and erratic. Muqadam distrusts humans, remembering the Roman practice of capturing Barbary lions for combat against gladiators. He hunts small groups of travelers, scattering their numbers and preferably taking mounts as a meal. Only when counterattacked does Muqadam strike out at people, but this has happened often enough that the tribes know to avoid certain regions if the Great Desert in the spring and autumn. Should Muqadam see a lion captured by travelers in the sands, his response would be absolutely furious and without mercy, with the captors’ lives forfeit. This has been the law since two of his cubs were taken years ago. Otherwise, in almost all ways, Muqadam behaves like Pentule, the Lion of Virtue described in Realms of Power: Magic, on page 60.''
''STORY SEED: AN ACQUIRED MENAGERIE''
''A group of Norman knights appear to''
''be tracking Muqadam across the countryside. Relentless, a powerful Jerbiton magus travels with them, providing the hunters with magical support, enabling them to survive the environment better than nearly anyone. They want to capture Muqadam, and place him within the menagerie of the Tower of London, where he will eventually suffer acclimation and likely die of shame. How do the characters react to this plan? Do they ﬁnd a way to surreptitiously help Muqadam, and gain the respect and future assistance of the beast, or do they aid the Jerbiton, and gain the favor of a potent Hermetic wizard?''
''STORY SEED: THE ROGUE VASSAL''
''A Lion of Virtue has begun hunting any and all men he can ﬁnd. This is Syyd, and he has decided that the spread of men at the edge of the Great Desert can no longer be tolerated. The Lion has been subtly corrupted by a demon that has preyed on his solitude and engineered situations where Syyd felt he was justiﬁed in killing. Now, bloodthirsty and uncontrolled, the Lion is ravaging the countryside. Will the magi seek out Muqadam and negotiate for the surrender of Syyd, or ﬁnd a way to acquire Syyd’s arcane connection from Muqadam?''
''strength Faerie auras of 4. Myrtoessa, the Hill of Myrtles and site of Apollon’s seduction of Kura, overlooks the site. A grove of Myrtles of Virtue grows on its northern slopes.''

==Leptis Magna==

''Nothing in all of Africa compares to the unspoiled ruins of Leptis Magna. Built up by Septimius Severus, its native son ascended to Emperor, it has nearly perfect triumphal arches, a largely intact basillica, an expansive theatre and forum, and even a sea-side temple to Serapis with a Magic aura of 2. The harbor is guarded by a Byzantine wall, and a lighthouse still looks out over the water. Many of the structures are half buried in sand, further preserving them. Other than the occasional caravan encampment, Leptis Magna has no signiﬁcant inhabitants. Since the desert swallowed it, there is simply insufﬁcient agricultural land nearby to support a population.''

==The Jebel Akhdar==

''These coastal mountains, a plateau covered in the forests that give its name, are riddled with wadis, rivers, and natural springs, and the highlands are one of the wettest areas in North Africa. Although isolated Muslim villages are found throughout the hills, the Faerie and Magic creatures found in the groves and valleys here resemble more the nymphs and fauns of mainland Greece than creatures elsewhere in the desert regions of Libya, where ghul and jnun dominate. Myrtle trees and herbs grow in abundance here and, as a result, honey is easily harvested by the common folk. Tainted by the nectar of plants they have fed on in the many Magic auras scattered throughout the hills, the Bees of Virtue here produce honey with varying magical properties.''

==The Altars of the Philaeni==

''These two pillars set upon a small hill overlooking the easternmost point of the coast of the Gulf of Syrtis mark the ancient border between Carthage and the Greek colonies of Cyrenaica, and then later the line of division between the eastern and western halves of the Roman Empire. Legend claims the hill as the burial place of the two Philaenus brothers, athletic champions who set out in a running race to meet their Cyrenaican counterparts and thereby decide the border in Libya between the ancient powers. Accused of cheating, the heroes offered to be buried alive at the spot to conﬁrm their claim, an offer the Cyrenaicans accepted. From the nearby coast road, the tumulus containing the bones of the two Carthaginians appears as a simple hillock beneath the rise of the southern escarpment that is surmounted by two piles of broken stone. On the mundane level the site has a weak Magic aura of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Silphium, Asafoetidia or Fennel?==

''Silphium is perhaps the most famous herb of antiquity, once the lifeblood of the economy of Cyrene and found on all the settlement’s coinage, but it is generally believed to be extinct in 1220. Related to common fennel although much rarer, it was once found only growing wild on the coastal plains of Cyrenaica, resulting in a virtual monopoly for the lucky Cyrenes. The Emperor Nero is widely held to have consumed the last stalk out of curiosity, much to the lamentation of ancient herbalists. A similar but lesser herb, asafoetidia, is still found in Arabia, Syria, Armenia, and Persia, and exported to Western Europe. It is so often used as a replacement that it is often confused with true Cyrenian silphium. Known for its rank smell and the nickname of “devil’s dung” in many languages, this herb is a sticky resin extracted from the mature plant that imparts a delicious ﬂavor when mixed with oil in cooking. Although it has the same culinary qualities, asafoetidia lacks any obvious magical properties to European wizards,''
''leading some magi to speculate that the two herbs are the same species and that true silphium is merely the Virtuous form of this common fennel variant. Asafoetidia, known as tyib in Arabic, acts as a ward against jinn. A bag of the resin tied around a wearer’s neck acts as a Traditional Ward for some lesser Faerie jinn. Asafoetidia can substitute for myrrh in some contexts but has different Shape & Material bonuses:''
''Asafoetidia: Protect against evil spirits +3''
''SILPHIUM OF VIRTUE''
''Found now only in a handful of lost Magic regiones in the coastal mountains of Cyrenaica, a Silphium of Virtue can be enriched to act as a ward against poison (as the Greater Immunity Major Virtue) for a year. However, as a consequence, the owner suffers from infertility (as a Lesser Malediction Flaw) for the same duration, a side effect that increased the herb’s value''
''in antiquity as an effective contraceptive. Enrichment requires the owner to cut the stem, extract the faintly odored resin, and place it in a sealed jar of pine nuts for a season. The user must then consume a single pine each day throughout the year to obtain both the enriched effect and ongoing contraception. If not enriched, the heart-shaped seeds of a Silphium of Virtue collectively contain 2 pawns of extraordinary Corpus vis and can be instead employed as a ﬁnite use Lesser Enchantment that is an effective abortifactant.''
''Silphium Seeds of Corpus Vis PeCo Level 15 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Unborn Child''
''The seeds of a Silphium of Virtue can be crushed into a paste that can be smeared onto the belly of a pregnant woman, wounding her unborn baby and ending the pregnancy. If the mother is more than one month pregnant, a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6''

|}
''2 but leads to a higher level 4 strength regio containing the twin pillars and accompanying blood-stained altars. Converted from a Carthaginian to a Mercurian site after the fall of Carthage, the regio is only accessible by using a Key to the Mystic Veil embedded in the northern pile of stone, and is sometimes visited to conduct initiations by the contemporary Cult of Mercury (see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 114–117). Together, the spirits of the Philaeni are considered inseparable daimonic Heroes with a pooled Magic Might 35, who can only be summoned through a combined theurgical rite performed by two wizards using Wizard’s Communion. The ghostly twin athletes once guarded the border road linking the North African provinces and were called upon to grant swiftness of travel to the legions traveling along their protected stretch of road. These Punic daimons can also be asked to grant the power to duplicate a recently cast spell, to enforce that the truth be spoken, and to bring down a curse on oathbreakers.''

==Siwa==

''This large oasis lies in a long depression at the northwestern edge of the Great Sand Sea, marking the ancient border between ancient Libya and the Kingdom of Egypt. In antiquity, the oasis was famous as Ammonium, the site of the oracle of Ammon, the Libyan god equated with Zeus by the Cyrenaican Greeks and consulted by classical heroes such as Hercules and Perseus, even Alexander the Great. Tracks lead north to the coast at Sallum (Baranis) and Matruh (Paraetonium), northeast to the southern Ayyubid capital of Cairo and southwest across the sandy desert to the Tuareg outpost of Ghat. This site will be described in greater detail in a later supplement for Ars Magica.''

==The Grand Plateau and the Atlas Mountains==

''The Grand Plateau is comprised of foothills and highlands that border the Atlas mountains. Some areas are sufﬁciently fertile to support large towns, but most areas are grazed by nomadic ﬂocks. Storyguides should use the plateau to tell the sorts of stories usually told in remote, rural areas in Europe. Although the Grand Plateau is close to the Tell, roads through it are poor, excepting a few major trade routes. The hilly nature of the country and the low population density have led locals to abandon the use of wheeled vehicles. Tracks through the plateau, suitable for riding horses or driving herds, are kept clear by locals.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Silphium, Asafoetidia or Fennel? (Cont’d)==

''must be made for her, and if it fails she suffers a Medium Wound. Otherwise, the woman suffers no physical harm. (Effect: Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Unborn Child (Part); Modiﬁcations: None)''
''This is baseed on the spell Black Anne’s Kiss that ﬁrst appeared in the Fertility Magic section of Ancient Magic, page 54–56. Target: Unborn Child is a unique Target that allows Hermetic magic to affect a developing human as Part of the pregnant mother. Investigating a Silphium of Virtue may provide an alternate source of Insight into integration of this style of magic into Hermetic magic at the storyguide’s discretion.''
''STORY SEED: WHEN SHALLOTS WILL SIMPLY NOT SUFFICE''
''A member of the Gastronomers’ League, consumed with the desire to win the honor of holding the Millenial Feast''
''of 1248 to celebrate the anniversary of the founding of Rome, seeks to obtain a sample of true silphium rather than employ common asafoetidia. As he wishes to keep his winning ingredient a secret, the magi or their grogs may be enlisted in the gourmet’s quest. The Gastronomer may be the head cook of Valnastium, a food-oriented magus from Normandy or the hedge magician Gervais d’Avignon. To make the search more interesting, the three contenders may assemble rival teams that uncover the sought after prize simultaneously or even inadvertently hire the same characters, providing opportunities for conﬂict, intrigue and negotiation.''
''STORY SEED: END OF THE LINE''
''Beyond its use in Hermetic culinary disputes, the ready availability of silphium with its use as a contraceptive has the potential to disrupt the feudal''
''structure of Mythic Europe. As per Lords of Men, a lord’s power is dependent on his serfs and their children, therefore any attempt to restrict the number of children is considered an act to limit a lord’s wealth. Similarly, contraception is considered a sin by the Church and contrary to God’s will. Enterprising magi determined to meddle in mundane affairs may attempt to use the infertility caused by silphium to break the true lineages of noble families or disrupt mundane inheritance in their favor. Tremere magi may seek to prevent the recovery of silphium by the Gastronomers to prevent the attention such a ﬁnd would bring to the order, to stockpile the herb for their own research, or to use the herb as a negotiating chip with the Redcaps of House Mercere. Unlike a Hermetic spell or invested item, using an enriched Silphium of Virtue does not leave the tell-tale trace of a magus’s sigil.''

|}

==Azru, the Atlas Bear of Virtue==

''Magic Might: 25 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –5, Str +6, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: +2 Season: Autumn Conﬁdence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Champion; Essential Virtue (Brave); Ferocity (when injured), Improved Characteristics (x2), Tough, Wilderness Sense; Essential Flaw (Slothful); Anchored to the Mountains (Atlas), Greedy (minor), Reclusive, Weakness (sweet foods) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Gift of Speech, Improved Damage (claws), Improved Initiative (claws) , Improved Might x7, Improved Powers, Improved Soak x2, Lesser Power, Minor Virtue (Magical Champion, Puissant Brawl, Puissant Hunt, Wilderness Sense) x4; Susceptible to Deprivation Qualities: Aggressive, Extra Natural Weapons (bite), Fast Runner, Grapple, Pursuit Predator, Hardy, Imposing Appearance, Large Claws, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Brave +6*, Slothful +6*, Bear +3*, Aggressive +2 Reputations: Ferocious (local) 2 Combat: Claws: Init +3, Attack +17, Defense +13, Damage +13 Teeth: Init +0, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +7 Grapple: Init 0, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage n/a Soak: +13 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28) Abilities: Area Lore: Maghreb 5 (mountains) Athletics 4 (sprinting), Awareness 4 (prey), Brawl 7+2 (claws), Etiquette 3 (Beasts of Virtue), Guile 3 (lying), Hunt 5+2 (boar), Living Language: Arabic 4 (conversation), Living Language: Berber 4 (conversation), Organization Lore: Berber Tribes 1 (campsites), Penetration 2 (Mentem ef''
''fects), Survival 5 (foraging), Swim 3 (against the current), Wilderness Sense 4 (ﬁnding oases)''
''Powers: Terrible Roar, 0 points, Init –3, Animal or Mentem. R: Voice, D: Diam, T: Sound. With a roar, the Atlas Bear cause those hearing it to tremble, frozen in fear. This affects humans and animals. ReAn(Me) 30 (Base 5, +1 Diam, +3 Sound, +1 Mentem requisite): Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost, +5xp Penetration) Thunderous Swipe, 0 points, Init –10, Animal or Corpus. R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Individual (Size +2). With a heavy blow, the Atlas Bear may knock any creature or man as big as itself for 5 paces, requiring a Dex roll against an Ease Factor of 12 to avoid being knocked to the ground. If ﬂung straight into the air, or against a hard surface, the target takes damage as falling. (+1 per 2 feet traveled, +7 maximum) This power may be incorporated into a claw attack. ReAn 25 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Size, +1 Corpus requisite): Lesser Power (25 levels), Improved Powers (-5 Might cost) Natural Weapons: Large Claws: Init 0, Atk +5, Def +3, Dam +4; Teeth: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. The bear’s tough hide and thick fur combine to give it a Protection of +3. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are ﬁve pawns of Animal in the bear’s claws. Appearance: The bear is a large, shaggy beast that weighs up to ﬁfty stone (700 pounds) and stands over seven feet tall on its hind legs. Its coat may be light brown or yellowish in color to black; most often, it is medium brown. The bear has large claws and makes a deep, echoing roar.''
''Once hunted to serve in the Roman gladiatorial games, Africa’s only native bear inhabits its namesake mountains and the surrounding areas, from Marrakesh to Tripoli. Brownish black in color with a reddish-orange belly, it''
''lacks the white mark on its short muzzle common to other brown bears. A stout, compact creature with powerful claws, it hunts wadis and brush alike, capturing anything it can to eat, but always on the prowl for a beehive.''
''The Atlas Bear of Virtue’s claws may be Enriched by wrapping their hide around a dry river rock taken from a wadi in the Bear’s hunting grounds and leaving them in the sun for 20 days. The resulting fetish grants the bearer the Tough Virtue.''
''STORY SEED: UNINVITED GUEST''
''A Bear of Virtue has taken over a vital supply cache or an essential vis site, turning it into a den and preventing any from entering. The covenant’s hunters, traders, or messengers need the cache to continue their travels, or the magi want to harvest the vis to continue covenant operations. Investigation reveals a group of Tuareg recently moved into the area, driving the Bear of Virtue from its previous home. Can the Tuareg or the Bear of Virtue move, or does the Bear need to be eliminated? Complicating matters is the fact the Bear is about to deliver cubs. Do the magi wish to try surviving without the site until the cubs depart, or do they want to neutralized the creatures for their own purposes?''
''STORY SEED: LOST LEGACY''
''An inquisitive Bjornaer might seek out such a beast of Virtue, hoping to learn about forgotten pre-Hermetic shapeshifters through the shared Vandal history. What estranged Gothic magic lineages roam the desert and do they possess the secret of changing into exotic Heartbeasts or other nonHermetic mysteries? Often ignored and left unstudied, hidden shapeshifter clans may roam across the Maghreb, descended from the tribes which crossed the straits, unwittingly awaiting a reunion or confrontation with the Bjornaer of Europe.''

==Between Sand & Sea Sijilmasa==

''The most signiﬁcant town in this region is Sijilmasa. It acts as the gateway to desert trade in the west. A similar role is played by Tripoli in the east. This city is a great center of fruticulture: the ﬁnest dates in the world come from the region around this city. It remains the last cosmopolitan destination for people traveling south, before the oasis towns of the desert. The wealth bought in through trade makes Sijilmasa a tempting target, forcing it to maintain heavy fortiﬁcations. During times of trouble, desert nomads raid it, so the locals fortify as a precaution. During times of peace, its rulers want to rebel against the central authority, and so improve their defenses. Stones face the brick walls of Sijilmasa. Currently ill-maintained, the walls are decaying from a high state of preparedness and sophistication. Much of the rest of the city is similarly ostentatious but dilapidated. Storyguides describing the city should imagine it was incredibly wealthy a century ago, but without necessary upkeep since that time. An Almohad army took the city by force last century, and the municipality is currently under the administration of an Almohad   governor. The Almohad desperately need the money from the desert trade to hold their Empire together. Locals believe the Caliphate will do virtually anything to control the city and loathe the Almohads for it. The Jewish community in Sijilmasa, for example, has vanished. Some ﬂed abroad, but the rest died in a genocidal pogrom, motivated either by religious fanaticism or, more likely, economics. Tall wooden wheels draw water out of the river Ziz, allowing most residents to maintain a household garden and ﬁlling a bathhouse attached to the largest mosque, where the Suﬁs come to discuss their philosophy. The Almohads jealously guard against popular Suﬁ mystics who might challenge them. They established many madrasas, which, combined with its great stone mosque, give the city a Divine aura of 4.''
''THE ATLAS MOUNTAINS ARE LIKE A FAERIE FOREST''
''When no other inspiration strikes, player characters should seek the Atlas Mountains. Much as, for European characters, the forest is the blank space where stories can always be found, in the North African imagination, there is always something new to ﬁnd in the Atlas. This region lies almost outside the law, and so it is a place for exiled princes to plot their return, bandits to recuperate between raids, and heretical sects to ﬂourish. Strange faerie towns and magical caves exist here, as do the houses of ascetics, the meeting sites of diabolists, the towers of wizards, and the tombs of forgotten kings. The Atlas were, perhaps, the fortress of the Titans as they made war on the Olympians, and they may be the shelter of the last remnants of coastal civilizations who ﬂed invasion by the Romans, Greeks, or Arabs. The mountains seem limitless, and beyond the sudden drop at their southern edge, lies the Great Desert.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
