''This chapter concerns the inside of the fallen covenant, inhabited by the ferret-like Hrools, strange magical creatures, and the ghosts of many of the former residents. Evidence of its mad destruction is found all about, and while there are signs of its former grandeur, the beauty of Calebais is gone forever. Characters will find much to attract their interest amid the rubble, including exquisite sculpture, enigmatic artifacts, and the sordid and twisted tales of the dead. However, much of the covenant’s great wealth has been lost; characters will have to search carefully to find the few treasures that remain and uncover the clues to what happened from beneath the dust of decades. The mood should emphasize increasing fear and brooding mystery, and the best story involves a fine balance between roleplaying with the ghosts and intrepidly exploring the ruins.''
''Before the characters make their way into the tunnels, there are a few facts that you should make sure the players know. Because of their association with the Order of Hermes, magi and those who serve them would take these things for granted, and emphasizing them will help to bring the most mysterious aspects of the tale of Calebais into sharp relief.''
''I. Magi are not allowed to spy on each other with magic. The Code to which every wizard swears states that scrying upon the affairs of other magi is strictly forbidden and punishable by death. This is difficult to regulate, though, since only the wizard who is so violated is aware of it (and not even then, if the spell is powerful enough), and it is very difficult to figure out who was responsible without scrying in return. But Quaesitors investigating a Hermetic crime are allowed to ignore this rule, and so magi who are inclined to break the law must be careful that they leave no evidence that can be magically discovered later. (It is probably this fact more than any other that kept the magi from attacking each other for so long, and why Mormulus’s Veil caused such chaos; it led the wizards who began the conflict to believe that they could get away with murder, for they thought no one could ever prove what they had done. If they had considered more carefully, they''
''might have realized there are many other methods to reveal their crimes — methods that the characters might employ during their expedition — but they were anxious to take advantage of Ornath’s recent departure and acted rashly.) II. Magi rarely slay each other, preferring to resolve their differences through certamen, the non-lethal wizard’s duel. When they do commit violence upon each other, it is always under very strict conditions — a challenge issued during the full moon, a month of preparation, the conflict itself lasting only a month, and so on — and these conventions are strictly enforced by the Order of Hermes. The customary punishment for killing another magus outside of these conditions is death. (The scale of violence among magi that happened at Calebais is unthinkable, almost inconceivable. It is not surprising that Hermetic investigators would have concluded that the covenant must have been the victim of a powerful and diabolical curse. In a sense, it was, for the diadems have a dangerous side effect that was also partially responsible for their fall.) III. Most wizards have a sanctum, designated by a warning mark at the entrance. If a wizard enters a sanctum belonging to another, it may be taken as evidence that the transgressor intended harm. Therefore, slaying a wizard found in your sanctum is generally considered an act of self-defense, and many magi protect their private quarters with deadly magical traps and guardians. Such places, even in a deserted covenant, can be very dangerous to enter. (For a long time, before hostilities broke out, intruders into their sanctums were the only outlets the magi had to practice their destructive magic. Vestiges of these spells remain to harm those who explore what is left of the labs.) IV. Strange things can happen in magical places. A magical aura can alter things, living and dead, magical and mundane, and the characters cannot have any sure idea of what to expect. Because of this, as storyguide you have license to freely suspend the natural laws of Mythic Europe and circumvent the rules of the game when they do not support the story you are telling. (This fact may help players develop a stronger sense of fear and wonder within the broken covenant.)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Calebais==


|}

=Inside Calebais=

''The interior of the covenant shows evidence of incredible destruction. Rubble, scorch marks, broken weaponry, and bones litter the floors. Nearly all of the wood in the covenant, including doors and furniture, has been burned or smashed apart. The stone walls and even sections of the ceilings bear many cracks and holes, especially in the lower levels. Pools of water have formed in various depressions throughout the rooms.''
''In most areas, the ceilings are between eight and ten feet high, though some of the corridors are only seven feet high. There is about five feet of solid rock between levels, with magical reinforcement where necessary. While many of the walls were once covered with beautiful tapestries, their deterioration causes voices to sound hollow and echo ominously. The dank air is laden with moisture and heavy with rot.''
''Originally, the covenant was heated and lit by magical devices that made sections of the ceiling glow like the morning sun. Carved periodically along the tops of the walls in most areas of the covenant is the shape of a flaming phoenix, set seamlessly into the stone, the rock bright with inner fire. These engravings still shine in many of the rooms of the covenant, though moss also grows over them and blocks out some of the light. Smashing apart these devices ends their effects.''
''The major denizens of Calebais are the Hrools, and evidence of them is everywhere. In most rooms where Hrools travel, there is a powerful odor of musk, and trails of them walking or crawling through the dust. Characters might find clumps of their droppings buried in piles of rubble. The Hrools only travel to the first few levels to hunt, so there will be no more than glimpses of them until the explorers go deeper, but characters might repeat''
''edly hear shuffling footsteps or sniffing ahead or behind them, and on the lower levels the characters will be brazenly approached and challenged.''
''Magical, gray-green moss grows almost everywhere, covering the walls and ceilings. In areas where magic was practiced often, such as wizards’ laboratories, it grows profusely. It is an excellent source of Herbam vis, though the amount that characters must gather to produce one pawn (about five rooms’ worth) is prohibitive for exploratory expeditions. An armload of moss is an adequate meal for a human-sized creature, tasting a bit like dry bread or mushrooms when compacted into a solid loaf.''
''On the upper levels, the rats eat as much of the moss as they can reach, leaving clear a small stripe along the bottom of the walls. On the lower levels, the Hrools collect it to feed their livestock. Because of this, it is found growing most densely in areas where small animals cannot reach, such as high along the ceilings and in labs that are still guarded. Be sure to point out the abundance or lack of moss in different rooms so that you can appreciate the players’ attempts to fathom its significance.''
''The vermin of the tunnels can also be heard if one listens quietly. Bats flutter about in the well, and there are many rat warrens dug into the rubble along the walls of the upper levels. Cobwebs hang in undisturbed areas or cover unused doorways. The aura and their magical diet has affected many of these creatures, making them preternaturally large and vicious, and the Hrools have basically abandoned the seventh level to those creatures that have grown too large for them to handle.''

==The Hrools==

''Hrools are ferret-like creatures about the size of toddlers or small dogs that inhabit the ruins of Calebais and possess human intelligence. The maga Ierimyra brought them to the covenant years before the Sundering and enhanced them with specialized magic (see the Appendix). For a time, they served as her personal guards, much to the disgruntlement of the other wizards and grogs, and in fact Ierimyra had grandiose plans (or a fateful vision) that one day her children would “rule” the entire covenant.''
''Hrools sleep a long time, about fifteen hours a day, and therefore many of them may be taken by surprise if caught in their dens. They post guards for this reason. When frightened, or just after they wake, Hrools tremble visibly. They make interesting clucking, chuckling sounds when excited, and hiss loudly when angry. They also spray a thick, foul-smelling scent to mark their territory or to scare away enemies, and characters fighting them or traveling through their living areas should make periodic''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Once one descends into the ruins of Calebais, there is a Magic 5 aura. As in the forest above, though, all Intellego Imaginem and Intellego Mentem effects anywhere on the hilltop or in the covenant are reduced by 60 spell levels, effectively canceling them, as the Veil of Mormulus covers the entire area. This means that common spells like Whispers Through the Black Gate, Prying Eyes, or Thoughts Within Babble will simply fail without providing any information.''

==Magic in the Ruins==


|}
''Stamina checks against an Ease Factor of 3, or 6 in particularly strongly-smelling areas, or suffer penalties to their actions because of the powerful odor. In general, those penalties should not exceed -1, unless a character botches the Stamina roll.''
''Like most animals, Hrools can sense The Gift and it disturbs them. Magi quite literally make their fur bristle and set their teeth on edge. While they might revere some wizards as benevolent, like Ierimyra, they know of others like Pitsdim who are capable of great destruction and evil. If they sense The Gift, or especially the Blatant Gift, they will naturally assume characters fall into this second category and attack immediately, or bolt in terror if battle seems hopeless. Under no circumstances will they help or trust magi who do not have the Gentle Gift.''
''When Calebais fell, the Hrools forgot most of what they had learned about civilization and reverted to their more feral nature. Many Hrools were slain out of malice by the grogs and magi, and many more died trying to protect Ierimyra. Enough remained, however, to repopulate the covenant after everyone else had died or fled. They retain their ability to reason, they still use tools and weapons, and a few have limited magical powers, all of which appear to be hereditary. A Hrool’s lifespan is short — usually about twenty years — and several generations have been born and died since they were introduced to Calebais.''
''A few of the Hrools can speak Latin, though it has become garbled by years of isolation and their limited vocabulary. The rest of them speak Hrool when they speak at all, which sounds something like growling and barking in the local language. Characters fluent in that language might understand a few words''
''of their chatter, but will find it almost impossible to speak their dialect understandably.''
''Due to their increasing numbers and their violent, scrappy nature, the Hrools have split into several semi-autonomous groups, usually led by the albinos (“ermines”), who have white fur instead of brown or black, and inherent magical powers. The main group of Hrools remains in the warrens that Ierimyra built for them, where they raise domesticated rats in a sort of primitive stockyard community. Another smaller group has set up camp in the banquet hall on level three, from which they hunt the rats on the upper levels and make occasional forays into the wood. A final group broke away to occupy the indoor garden on level five, and lives on the bats that nest in the cracks of the well. About a dozen independent Hrools keep the remaining vermin under control, ranging throughout the covenant individually or in small groups, and all groups occasionally make foraging sorties to the other levels.''
''Combat is a matter of status among the Hrools. Small groups of satyrs from the faerie forest occasionally raid the covenant, and the Hrools take great pride in slaying them. The ermines fashion totem necklaces for the warriors, and they attach the satyrs’ horns to these as a symbol of their prowess. Thus, the strongest warriors among the Hrool have the most satyr horns, and while most have only one or two, a few have as many as four or five. These champions usually claim any magical heirlooms that the Hrools have scavenged through the years.''
''The ermine Hrools do not wear necklaces. Most of them wear diadems connected to the Bell of Ibyn, and they use these to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre -2, Com -3, Str -2, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: -3 Confidence: 1 (3) Personality Traits: Curious +3, Tricky +2 Combat: Bite: Init +4, Attack +5, Defense +5, Damage -1 Stone (thrown): Init +0, Attack +3, Defense +5, Damage +2 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-2), -3 (3-4), -5 (5-6), Incapacitated (7-8) Abilities: Animal Handling 4 (rats), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 3 (sentry), Brawl 2 (grapples), Speak Hrool 3''
''(directions), Swim 3 (diving), Stealth 3 (hide), Thrown Weapons 2 (rocks) Vis: 1 Animal Appearance: Adult Hrools look like ferrets or weasels, but larger than normal, alternating between crawling on all fours and walking like humans on their hind legs, and wearing sorry attempts at clothing fashioned from torn cloth and dirty rags. They have an excellent sense of smell and good hearing, often standing still and listening for unusual sounds in the dark corridors. Note: Adult Hrools are used to working in groups, and in combat they can band together under an ermine’s or champion’s leadership, giving up to five of them a +10 bonus, usually to defense.''

==Adult Hrool==

''Magic Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Int -2, Per +1, Pre -2, Com -3, Str -1, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size: -3 Confidence: 1 (3) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Protective +2 Combat: Axe (stone): Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +10, Damage +7 Bite: Init +5, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +0 Club: Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +10, Damage +5 Short Spear: Init +4, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +3 Javelin (thrown): Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +4, Damage +7 Stone (thrown): Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +5, Damage +3 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: -1 (1-2), -3 (3-4), -5 (5-6), Incapacitated (7-8) Abilities: Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 1, Brawl 4 (grapple), Hunt 3 (rats), Leadership 2 (combat), Single Weapon 4 (club), Speak Hrool 2 (orders), Stealth 1, Swim 3 (diving), Thrown Weapons 1 (rocks) Vis: 2 Corpus in each satyr horn, 1 Animal Appearance: Warrior Hrools look like regular adult Hrools who have been put through a training program. They are stronger and meaner, with darker coats, wielding wooden clubs made from fallen tree branches or stone axes. They wear necklaces strung with satyr horns around their necks. Note: Warrior Hrools are used to fighting in trained groups of 3-5 under the leadership of their champion or an ermine. This means the group receives a +12 combat bonus to either attack or defense.''
''Magic Might: 18 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +3, Pre +1, Com -2, Str -4, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: -3 Confidence: 1 (3) Personality Traits: Prudent +2, Loyal -3 Combat: Bite: Init +4, Attack +6, Defense +5, Damage -3 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-2), -3 (3-4), -5 (5-6), Incapacitated (7-8) Abilities: Athletics 2 (climbing), Awareness 1, Brawl 2 (grapple), Concentration 3 (rock sculpting), Craft (sculpture) 3, Finesse 3 (Terram), Hrool 4 (giving orders), Latin 2 (insults), Leadership 4 (combat), Penetration 2 (Rego), Swim 2 Powers: Sculpt the Mystic Rock, 1 point, +0, Terram: With careful concentration, an ermine Hrool can change rock into clay while digging at it or sculpting it into a primitive shape.''
''Wielding the Invisible Sling, 1 point, +5, Terram: Ermine Hrools can magically throw a small stone at a target, causing +5 damage, or +12 if the stone has been specially sharpened. The Hrools keep many of these stones at hand, marked with their special symbols for war and magic. Banish the Haunting Spirit, 3 points, +0, Mentem: By standing on their hind legs and hissing, ermine Hrools can drive away a ghost with a Might of 15 or less. They can also work together, so that two of them can drive away a ghost with up to 20 Might, and three can affect those with 25. Ghosts cannot stand the sound of their hissing, and must flee the room or vanish when they use this power. Vis: 3 Rego Appearance: Ermine Hrools are leaner and spindlier than their weasel-like counterparts, with pure white fur and pink eyes. Many wear golden wire crowns bent around their heads, with a green gemstone shaped like an eye at their foreheads. They wear almost comical attempts at wizard robes gnawed from tattered tapestry remains, and wrap rings of bark or sculpted stone around their claws or through holes poked in their ears.''

==Warrior Hrool==


==Ermine Hrool==


|}
''occasionally lead their tribe through the Veil to hunt birds (a rare delicacy) and find wood. The Hrools have lost almost all of their original armaments to breakage and time, so now they use tree limbs scrounged from the forest as clubs. The ermine Hrools also have some magical ability to shape rocks, which some Hrools have learned to tie to wooden handles and use as tools or weapons.''
''Hrools from different groups often have territorial fights, but these conflicts rarely end in bloodshed. If they spot intruders, they will attack raucously but will flee if seriously threatened. Years of fighting experience has taught them where to ambush their opponents and some very good battle tactics. It may be easy for a group of stout warriors to fend off even a large number of Hrools in the corridors, because the Hrools are proficient at using their superior mobility to retreat until they have the advantage from terrain or reinforcements. A common ploy is to send small groups to attack the characters from the flanks or rear. Groups of Hrool can move surprisingly quickly, and their scurrying can be heard even climbing up and down the well.''
''They act differently when defending their homes, however. There, they will liberally use Confidence to represent their ferocity, and fight without regard for casualties or pain. Those who intend to challenge them must take into account not only their cleverness but also their spirit. They scream barely intelligible threats and intimidate their attackers with heinous and desperate acts of violence. They spit and curse and bite opponents in the face, even attacking their opponents’ weapons to break them. The Hrools have such a strong loathing for people who attack dens that other tribes might even hear their cries and come to their aid.''
''If a battle is taking place near the well (in the garden or in front of Ierimyra’s quarters, for example), two or three adult Hrools will charge their opponents and try to push them in, riding along for the plunge into the water. Then they simply dive down to the submerged rooms and swim back up through the flooded stairways, as they can hold their breath for several minutes at a time. This tactic is an effective action for the non-warrior Hrools to use, as they can fight as a group to receive a bonus to their attack. They can also throw rocks or try to trip up characters by sneaking around behind them and clawing at their clothing or rifling through their packs.''

==Elementals==

''Some of the wizards at Calebais practiced magic that allowed them to bind spirits into physical objects, and Mormulus’s Veil is one example of this. Other magi at the covenant experimented with similar forms of sorcery before their demise, and left behind''
''several creatures known as “elementals,” so called within the Order because they are typically made from one of the four elements: water, air, fire, or earth. These raw materials are magically animated with a supernatural presence that might be called alive, or at least aware. While rules for summoning and controlling these creatures are beyond the scope of this adventure, here are some guidelines for dealing with those that the characters might encounter.''
''Firstly, as elementals are magical, they can be dispelled. A Perdo Vim spell, or Perdo with the appropriate Form, will decrease an elemental’s Might just as Demon’s Eternal Oblivion affects a demon or Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit affects a ghost, eventually destroying the animating force and leaving the body an empty shell. Similarly, elementals may be warded away with Rego (Form), essentially creating magical versions of Ward Against Faeries of the Waters (et al) or Circular Ward Against Demons.''
''Secondly, elementals are bound to the physical realm by the material which gives them form. Breaking apart an elemental body has the same effect as dismembering flesh: cause enough damage and the being is destroyed. This can be done with physical attacks, pummeling or cutting apart an elemental, or by using Perdo magic with the appropriate Form to damage it. Warding against attacks or taking control of this material is also possible with Rego. Use the Animal guidelines for suggested effects of the different Techniques at different spell levels.''
''Finally, as each of the elements naturally opposes the others, so elementals may be disrupted with other elements, much like medieval doctors affect a bodily humor by manipulating its opposite. For example, Creo Ignem can cause water to evaporate, and Creo Aquam can extinguish flames. These effects can also be duplicated with Muto in the elemental’s Form; Muto Terram can turn earth into dust, and Muto Auram can disperse a storm. Treat each of these spells as Perdo effects of half their level when determining how much damage they cause an elemental.''
''Like any magically animated thing, elementals have an inexplicable sense of their surroundings. That is, while they cannot see or hear (they have no eyes or ears), part of the magic that binds them allows them to perceive their environment. How elementals do this might be characterized by their element: earth and air elementals sense movement across the ground or through the air, while fire and water elementals sense changes in temperature. As long as they are within their element, they are considered part of that element and can sense everything foreign that comes into contact with it.''
''When elementals are summoned and bound, they are given a purpose. This is the essence of their existence; it is all that they do. The commands can be simple, such as “guard this room,” or''
''more complex, such as “obey my instructions.” They have no mind, so they cannot reason or become frightened, and if they somehow break their bonds, like a deluge or an avalanche they will proceed to destroy whatever is in their path. Elementals without purpose are simply powerful forces of nature unleashed.''
''Elementals that are defeated (but not dispelled) may leave behind raw vis appropriate to their form.''

==Ghosts==

''Calebais is haunted by the ghosts of many of its former inhabitants, disembodied spirits still confined to earth because of their actions in life, or because of a supernatural desire to complete some task left unfinished. Many ghosts are dark, sinister souls, living tormented existences beside the physical world without being able to affect it in any real way. They are often confused, sometimes violently insane, and may hate and fear the living or take pleasure in making others share their suffering. Others may be of good heart and seek only to put right what their passing made wrong, or were made ghosts simply because they lived too long in a magical aura. Ghosts are as individual as living beings, and each has its own distinct personality.''
''The appearance of ghosts can also vary, from seeming completely substantial, so real that they even feel solid, to a luminous haze in the air with only vague similarities to the human form. All ghosts at Calebais can become invisible at will, hidden from those who cannot perceive the spirit world, but only a few come close to a state resembling solidity; most remain translucent and rippled, like a reflection in deep water. As they spend their Might Pool, they also lose their clarity, fading away completely when exhausted.''
''Apart from coming to terms with their non-corporeal nature, ghosts cannot learn or change; they are trapped with the mindset and skills they had when they died. They may be able to teach others some of what they knew, but the distance of the grave combined with the difficulty of maintaining their existence means that they tend to forget what they are doing very easily. Characters studying from a ghost must start over each day, reintroducing themselves every time. This will be frustrating for the characters and for the ghost, and should be more trouble than it is worth.''
''Many ghosts do not realize they are dead, and refuse to believe those who say that they are. Only ghosts who accept their nature and have become used to their incorporeal forms can move through solid walls, ignore Fatigue penalties or wounds, or in any way act as if they were not living, breathing humans. Ghosts are solid to one another, of course, and interact in all''
''ways as if they were flesh and blood. For most ghosts, the physical world is as real as ever, except that people seem to play tricks on them or do not always see them.''
''Ghostly magi can also cast spells, just as they did in life. The ghosts of Calebais are described with some spells to represent their specialties, to give you ideas of what they might do, but they also have suggested Arts for spontaneous magic, and you should give them other spells that you think that they would have learned before death. These spells are not physical and cannot affect the physical world, but they are realistic illusions. A Perdo Corpus spell might cause a flash of pain, while a Creo Aquam spell might cause a powerful chill as ghostly waters rush past. However, Imaginem, Mentem, and Vim magics still affect the living normally, as can some Animal (animal minds) and Ignem (light) effects.''
''Most ghosts also have some sort of magical power to affect the physical world, even if it is only a mundane activity appropriate to their duties and desires in life. Ghostly magi typically have the power to make their spells “real,” affecting the living as if their magic were cast in the flesh. These powers often cost them some of their Magic Might to activate, but they gain this back over time, and a day is typically sufficient to bring them back to full strength. If they lose all their temporary Might points, or are injured or killed by magic or other ghosts, they will return after''
''a day or so, as whole as before, with no memory of what happened. Permanently destroying a ghost is extremely difficult.''
''However, every ghost has fetters that bind it to life. When ghosts deal with the tasks they left unfinished, or address whatever circumstances prevent them from passing on, they fade away forever. This should be a very rare occurrence, worthy of more than a simple declaration; you should describe the process in detail, portraying a vivid event. A ghost leaving the confines of the mortal world is an awe-inspiring affair. Treat this scene with the reverence it deserves, and make it memorable.''
''When they pass on, ghosts can leave raw vis behind. This vis is often as ghostly as they were, tied to a spiritual memento of the haunting, though there are magical ways to harvest this vis. A Muto Mentem spell with a physical requisite can make the item and the vis temporarily solid. Rego Mentem can transport ghostly objects, and Rego Vim can siphon the vis into some other container. Finally, even if they cannot move it, magi can always use ghostly vis simply by touching it. Voices in the Dark''
''The ruins of Calebais abound with fearful sights and sounds. There are ample opportunities to check the characters’ courage by making Brave Personality trait rolls. Depending on the circumstances, anything less than a 6+ might cause characters to hesitate or falter, and botches might cause them to flee in terror. Fear can take many forms, and remember that without fear to overcome, there cannot be true bravery.''
''There are also many opportunities throughout the ruins for players to make Perception + Awareness rolls. As they may come to rely on the solid information they receive from success, knowing when they have botched or rolled low, you might want to roll for them, or have them make Personality checks at the same time. If they lose heart while peering into dark corners and sifting through ancient graves, color the information they receive accordingly.''
''The central well serves as a sounding box for a myriad of sounds made by the inhabitants of the ruins. These noises should serve to remind the characters that there are things moving through these ruins all the time, and that while there may be nothing in their current location, they are not necessarily safe. Whenever the action slows down, or the players are just talking among themselves, have the characters make rolls to hear something strange and enigmatic reverberate through the tunnels. Here are some examples, though you should feel free to invent other sounds as you think appropriate.''
''I. Barkish laughter, often a hideous cacophony of many voices (Hrools) II. Gruntlike sniffling and soft shuffling footsteps nearby (Hrools) III. The rhythmic pitter-patter of drops falling into a pool of water IV. Pitiful wailing and crying echoing up from the bottom of the well (Althea) V. Low-pitched, tremulous growls (Igack) VI. A distant or nearby explosion, and the crackling of flames (Pitsdim) VII. Maniacal laughter (Pitsdim) VIII. The flapping of many wings (bats, especially at dusk) IX. Splashing noises far below (rocks shifting from level seven) X. Distant cries of “Gemaric! Gemaric!” (Josephine) XI. Screams of rage (David) XII. A low-pitched moan from above (wind blowing past the mouth of the well) XIII. Scratching noises inside the walls (rats) XIV. Snatches of hauntingly beautiful singing (Mormulus) XV. Deep rumbling noises and tremors (the Undertakers) XVI. Sounds of yelling and stone breaking (Paulo) XVII. Powerful winds blowing up and down the well XVIII. A flute whistle, playing a steady tone XIX. The soft ringing of a bell (guard post on level six) XX. Carousing grogs, mournfully singing an off-key air in the distance XXI. A hollow, dejected sigh, from somewhere very close''
''Also, whenever a person dies, even only a grog, describe a dull, toneless clang that echoes through the covenant. This is the Bell of Ibyn, but the characters will be unable to pinpoint the sound’s exact origin.''

==Free-Moving Encounters==

''Some of the inhabitants of Calebais are given definite locations where they may be found, but since most are free to move about, you may have them appear wherever and whenever your story demands it. If the characters draw attention to themselves, or the game is moving slowly, bring in a free-moving encounter. Below is a list of events that could take place in a variety of locations throughout the ruins and can be used at your discretion. Not all of them are necessary, but you might note the ones you definitely want to include for future use. Don’t let this list limit your imagination if you have other ideas.''
''I. One of the ghosts, or even a group of ghosts, confronts the party. II. A curious lone Hrool stalks the characters. Perhaps it’s a pup, and not as good at remaining hidden as the others. III. During an encounter with a ghost, either a friendly one or a threatening one, a small party of Hrools with their ermine leader charges onto the scene, screeching and using its power to drive the ghost away. IV. The characters come upon two groups of Hrools, each gathered in an opposing line to watch their champion warrior brawl. They immediately stop what they are doing when they see the characters, and charge them with a guttural whoop. V. Wandering Hrools begin to follow the party, fleeing if challenged, slowly increasing in number until the group is large enough to attack. Attempts to communicate with them might be successful, while shows of force might frighten them off. VI. The characters find an abandoned Hrool that was incapacitated during a fight. It snarls fiercely at the characters, and its howls might bring other Hrools to investigate the commotion if it is attacked. VII. When the characters look down the well into the water, they see a bright, luminous creature undulating around the dragon. (This is probably Dargaud, climbing around on the statue.) VIII. The characters are losing a fight with a large number of Hrools when Ierimyra enters. The Hrools stop fighting to worship her, giving the characters a chance to escape. If any of the Hrools have been killed, Ierimyra will cry loudly and piteously, mourning the deaths of her children and making other ghosts very uncomfortable, since she never wept when she was alive. IX. The sounds of combat attract a particular ghost, or perhaps all three at once: David, to lead the battle; Ferdina, to stop the fighting; or Pitsdim, to join in. X. David comes to the magi characters to report that there is great fighting and confusion and that he is requesting new orders. He will also demand that the grog characters report to him for duty. Later, he may suddenly realize that he doesn’t recognize the characters and decide that they are intruders, ordering the grogs (using his special ability) to apprehend them. XI. During a battle, Ferdina arrives and orders everyone to stop fighting, desperately pleading with them to stop if they continue anyway. It is likely that no one takes any notice of her until after the fight is over, since she is barely able to watch the bloody scene. If David is present and begins to demean her authority, she talks frantically and loudly over his comments. XII. The characters are getting along well with a ghost when Pitsdim shows up and launches a huge fireball at the room.''
''It doesn’t hurt the living, but the ghost is slain (to return later with no memory of the event). XIII. Dargaud comes creeping through the covenant from one of the lower levels, looking for his master Erechtheus or one of the covenfolk to torment. He sees the characters, and decides to stealthily follow them to discover what they are doing here. XIV. A character searching through the rubble disturbs a copper-colored centipede over a foot long. The character must make a Quickness + Athletics Encumbrance roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to get out of the way before being bitten. The poison has an Ease Factor of 6, and causes a Medium Wound. The centipede scampers back into the debris after delivering its bite. XV. While moving a tapestry, pile of wood, or a large curtain of webs blocking a doorway, the characters disturb a nest of spiders, more than a dozen of them, each one the size of a man’s fist. Frightened, they crawl chaotically about the room, even over people, before fleeing into the corners, giving the characters (and, one hopes, the players) fits and a nasty scare. XVI. Large rats, big enough to come up to the characters’ ankles, made brave with hunger, creep out of a hole in the wall and attack the characters or the Hrools, trying to bite them. After drawing blood, they retreat into the shadows. Later, injured characters might find their wounds have become infected. XVII. A group of three satyrs from the faerie forest raid the covenant and attack, drunk on wine and unable to recognize or interact with the characters in any way but to fight. Hrools arrive during the battle, brutally counter-attacking the faeries with surprising efficiency and skill. XVIII. At sunset, a huge flock of bats flies out of their nests in the well, and out through the opening into the darkening sky. Watching the cloud rise across the horizon like a column of black smoke is ominous and eerie if seen from the outside or one of the balconies.''

==The Entrance==

''The dryad leads the characters up a steep trail, which crests the hill and passes between two great crags, then descends a few feet and levels off. All that is visible from the surface of the ruins is a pit, 30 feet in diameter, circled by a 10 foot wide band of paved rock. Six large oak trees grow around the sides, concealing it from viewers in the air or on the surrounding hilltops. A wide set of stairs is cut into the rock at the edge, extending into the hilltop, not into the well.''

===a Warning===

''Sitting directly in front of these stairs is a two-foot high, four foot square, roughly hewn stone slab (sloped up away from the stairs), onto which is carved the following message signed by Ornath, follower of Guernicus, Quaesitor.''

===Background: A Warning===

''After investigating what had become of Calebais, and convincing his fellow Quaesitors that some diabolical curse had affected the covenant in his absence, Ornath left this marker in the hope that it would dissuade people from entering. He feared that others might aid the ghosts, or free them from their torment, and he preferred that they suffer here as long as possible.''

===The Dragon===

''When the characters first look down the deep well (180 feet total), they see an eerie, muted, yellow light at the bottom, shining up from a strange, coiling design in silhouette. If they look more carefully, have them make a Perception + Awareness roll. On a 9+, characters see that there is water at the bottom; at 12+ they recognize the coiling design as serpent-like; 15+ lets them see bubbles coming out of the water from the mouth of the creature; and at 18+ they can see that it is probably a statue. You may want to roll the dice for the players and let them know privately what they see. This is about the right time to start building a sense of mystery about the ruins, so keeping the players unsure of what is happening is a good idea. If any characters botch, they suffer a powerful sense of vertigo from staring into the long drop and may even lose their balance; roll Dexterity + Athletics Encumbrance and use the severity of the botch to''
''determine the difficulty of remaining on their feet. If they fail to either catch themselves or grab the ledge, they fall; from here it is 140 feet to the waterline.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''OMITTETE HAS RUINAS EXSECRABILIS (oh-MEET-tay-tay HOSS roo-EEN-ahs eck-SEHK-rah-BEEL-ees) “Let these cursed ruins be.”''
''ET MANDATE MANEM AD SUAM FATUM PROPRIAM (et MAHN-dah-tay MAH-name odd SOO-ahm FAHT-oom PROH-pree-ahm) “And leave the dead to their well-earned fate.”''
''If any characters fall into the well, they will plummet down the long shaft into the water. This is actually the best outcome, since the water will cushion some of the damage. If a character slips and falls from a ledge, he or she might be able to land on one of the other ledges, such as the large balconies on levels two, three, seven and nine. You can look at the maps to determine if the character would fall near a ledge, and allow a Dexterity + Athletics roll to see if the character can make it. There is about 15 feet between each floor, so if you use this option, calculate the distance accordingly, and remember that landing on a hard surface doubles the damage.''
''Falling characters take one point of damage per two feet fallen, doubled if they hit a ledge, halved if they hit the water, or negated if they make a Dexterity + Swim roll of 12+ (diving). For example, if a character slips from the very top, he would fall 140 feet, taking +35 damage from a relatively soft landing in the water. If he instead landed on level three, he would only fall 45 feet, but take +45 damage from the solid impact.''
''Characters may be able to climb out of the water in the bottom of the well to the ledge on level nine (see page 68), but remember that they might be hindered by armor. Swimming in chain mail is almost impossible; they will probably have to abandon their protection just to keep from drowning, assuming they aren’t incapacitated by the fall.''
''There isn’t much to see through the darkness while falling, though characters who can magically slow their descent or find some way to climb out of the depths might encounter one or more of the ghosts or a curious Hrool. If they fall relatively early, Paulo (see page 44) may witness the accident and rush to help them. Later, Pitsdim (page 66) may intimidate the characters from the other side of the arch on level eight, or they might catch a glimpse of the lush garden that spills out of the enormous windows on level five.''

|}

==The Warning Falling into the Well==


===Background: The Dragon===

''At the bottom of the well, now completely submerged, is a stone statue of a dragon. Flooding in the lower levels has made it completely inaccessible, and it sits beneath about 40 feet of water. The statue was carved for three reasons: 1) since the covenant design was based on a dragon burrow, the statue gives honor to the connection; 2) the powerful magical light that shines from its eyes once helped light the well from the bottom up; 3) the air magically emanating from the dragon’s mouth provided fresh air to the lower tunnels.''
''If Sir Gilbert sees the dragon statue for what it is, he will be greatly disappointed and may become so despondent that he cannot continue.''

===Outer Barracks and Stable===

''Parts of the two craggy outcroppings of rock that give the hill its name have been dug out, with cave entrances on the covenant side, shielded from sun and view from above by large overhangs. Characters probably won’t notice these if they are focused on the entrance and the warning that stands before it.''
''The southeastern cave is one large room, covered in dust, with many overturned beds, tables and other pieces of metal and stone furniture, but no valuables. It does not appear to have been disturbed for many years, but was ransacked and emptied very thoroughly at one time. A few broken tools remain in one corner: rusted pickaxes without handles, a few cracked stone hammers, ripped leather hauberks, splintered lances, and an assortment of barrel rims amid a pile of hardened clay. A few small holes are cut at intervals into the northern and southern walls, large enough to let light into the cave or to fire arrows down the other side.''
''The cave to the southwest has been partially blocked with a barricade made of all manner of large, heavy pieces of rock and wooden beams. The large entryway is not difficult to clear if the characters are willing to spend the time, but doing so will earn them the attention and resentment of Dargaud, a ghostly young redcap who haunts this area.''

===Dargaud===

''From the moment the characters step into the covenant environs, Dargaud will be watching them through the chinks in his painstakingly-fashioned screen. He will not interfere with them, and in fact they will probably have no idea he is there unless they disturb his barricade. Doing so will enrage him, and he will''
''dog their steps to learn who they are and what they are doing from that moment on. If he sees a good shot, he will throw a rock at them, but not so that it is obvious it was him. He still has the exuberance of youth, and enjoys a good challenge, but he is essentially capricious and spiteful.''
''Dargaud thinks he is an excellent hunter, and believes himself to be extremely good at hiding, so much so that he can walk right behind the characters without making a sound. In life, he had many magic items that made this easy. These items have since been destroyed, but because he has no image, only other ghosts or those with Second Sight can perceive him, and then only if they beat his Quickness + Stealth roll. He has no difficulty traveling through the water (for him, it isn’t there), but when submerged he gains an eerie luminosity that perfectly outlines his shape. If spotted, he will abandon any pretense at sneaking, yelp comically, and flee.''
''He keeps his voting sigil nearby at all times, for it was this token that proved he was a full member of the wizards’ council, even though he did not have the Gift and by tradition did not vote. His status as a redcap raised him higher than the other mundane''
''men and women at the covenant (who hate him and will drive him off if they see him), and he abused his position terribly, ordering others to perform the simplest of tasks. He needs this reminder of his authority, and he will never willingly set it down.''
''Dargaud was hiding in the lower levels of the covenant when they flooded, and he drowned. His body lodged halfway up the escape shaft, and his ghost climbed out into the stables. He does not remember any of this, but he does have a nagging feeling that something unpleasant happened, and he doesn’t want anyone to go down the tunnel. He needs to know why before he can be at peace. He doesn’t recognize anything different about his surroundings — the covenant looks the same to him — but he does notice strangers like the characters, and he listens to what they say. He will pay special attention when they discuss the covenant, or things that he cannot perceive, such as Ornath’s warning. If Dargaud learns that a magical tremor caused the flooding of the lower levels, and who was responsible, he will accept that he is dead and pass on.''
''This cave is shaped just like the other, only it is clear of debris and shows no signs of being inhabited. As in the other cave, there are several deep holes cut into the walls that act as windows to let the light in. The remains of a few collapsed stalls (pieces of fencing that were not incorporated into the barricade), a pair of damaged buckets, and a bald and discarded brush may reveal to the characters that this was a horse stable, but there is nothing of value remaining here for them to find.''
''At the very back of the room is a trap door, which has been extremely well-hidden. It is covered with about an inch of dirt and what was probably straw, and appears in all respects to be part of the floor. Only characters who are intensely searching have any chance of finding it, and then only on a Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 15. Obviously, it hasn’t been opened for decades, and it leads to a narrow shaft that is only large enough for one normal-sized person. Rough, uneven rungs are carved out of the stone, descending into darkness.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 11 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +5, Per +2, Pre 0, Com -2, Str -1, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +1 Age: 20 Size: -1 Personality Traits: Patient +3, Curious +2, Forgiving -2 Combat: Fist and Kick: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense +1, Damage +2 Stone (thrown): Init -1, Attack +4, Defense +5, Damage +3 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-4), -3 (5-8), -5 (9-12), Incapacitated (1316) Abilities: Athletics 4 (climbing), Awareness 3 (movement), Brawl 3, Guile 2 (lying to authority), Latin 5 (vocabulary), Local Language 5 (vocabulary), Order of Hermes Lore 3 (places), Ride 1, Stealth 4 (hiding), Survival 1, Thrown Weapons 3 (rocks) Powers: Kinesis, 1 point, +4, Terram: Dargaud can pick up a small physical object, no bigger than his head, and throw it. While he is holding it, the object becomes ghostly and invisible, but he can only hold one thing at a time because he holds his sigil in his other hand. Vis: 2 Mentem in his voting sigil, if he learns the details of how he died''
''Appearance: Dargaud is completely insubstantial, and cannot be seen unless he is submerged in water, when he appears hazily as a bedraggled, mousy young man wearing the red cap of House Mercere. He never goes anywhere without his voting sigil, a small ordinary stone with a flat base and his name carved into the bottom. Roleplaying Tips: If characters find a way to communicate with Dargaud, they will find him alert but almost unintelligible. He uses a great many words, with an amazing vocabulary, but none of them make any sense together. “Traversal boundless undersea lyceums without meticulosity,” or “Where abrogate certamen equals extremist succedaneum.” Slowly speak a sentence like this, throwing together whatever interesting words you can think of, and then while the characters are puzzling it over, have him throw a rock at them and try to run away. What He Knows: Dargaud is aware that something is wrong with the covenant, but not what. He can act as a guide, as he knows the layout of the covenant well, but only as it was fifty years ago. If coerced, he can give vague descriptions of the magi, though he does not remember much about them. He was just an apprentice almost all of his life at Calebais, and rarely interacted with the other magi, since he only passed his Gauntlet a few weeks before the Sundering. He was given a diadem, but never participated in the Bell ritual.''

==Dargaud, the Redcap==


|}
''About thirty feet down, another tunnel branches off to the west. This leads to the base of Two Crag Hill, ending in a covered exit hatch masked by grasses and bushes on the other side of the forest, though still within the Veil. The ladder also continues down about a hundred feet, where it encounters the waterline, and continues far below that into the lower levels, though Dargaud’s corpse is lodged in the way at a place where the shaft narrows a little, wearing a diadem. If the characters can travel underwater and want to move the body aside, feel free to invent what they discover at the bottom of the escape tunnel, as the flooded parts of the covenant are not part of this story.''

===Stairway and Bridge===

''Behind the slab with Ornath’s warning at the main entrance, a stairway winds thirty feet down the side of the well. As the characters descend the stairs, they can see a line of arrow slits across the shaft from them. Perceptive characters might see the figure of a man in the archer’s room beyond, and characters with''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Characters with Second Sight may be able to see through all sorts of illusions and magical effects in Calebais. However, asking the players to make a Second Sight roll may give away some of the mysteries of the covenant, such as the fact that there are otherworldly features to be perceived. For example, if you have them roll to recognize that the figure behind the arrow slits is a ghost, they will probably think of him a ghost when they meet him later, even if they fail the roll. Instead, you might wish to note the characters’ Second Sight scores, and then ask for Perception + Awareness rolls instead. You should then be able to calculate whether the characters see anything unusual because of their magical sight. The players will be alerted that there is something to see, but even that may serve to heighten the sense of paranoia that should be inherent in the idea of exploring magical ruins.''

==Second Sight==


|}
''Premonitions might get the feeling they are being watched. This is Paulo, the ghost of one of the guards (see below).''
''At the bottom of the stairway, a dilapidated footbridge spans the well, scorched black in places, patched and reinforced with bones, vines and branches. It will creak and bow ominously when anyone crosses it. For each character, roll a simple die + Burden + (Size x 3). If two or more characters cross at the same time, add their rolls together. If the result is 12+, the bridge breaks and those on it fall into the central shaft, 125 feet from the water (see Falling into the Well, above).''

===Entrance Room===

''A rubble-strewn entrance room lies beyond the crumbling bridge, on the other side of the ornate heavy doors, reinforced but left ajar. In its center sits a small, green marble fountain, four feet in diameter, now dry. Its centerpiece is a life-sized female statue pouring water from a basin. You may make a Perception + Awareness roll for each of the characters; on a 6+ they notice a''
''similarity to the dryad in the Veil. If any of the players ask about this possibility, they also notice the resemblance.''
''There are two short corridors leading from the entrance room to spiral staircases, and a large double door made of iron occupies the wall between them. The larger staircase is the wizards’ staircase, and the smaller is the common staircase. A short flight of stairs in the far wall leads to the archers’ room.''
''The corridor nearest the entrance, leading to the wizards’ stair, is blocked by a large, carved boulder — flat on the bottom, round on the top — beneath which is the ancient skeleton of a Hrool. In the ceiling is a depression about the same size as the rock. The top and sides of the slab are partially covered by rubble. If a few minutes are spent clearing it away, the boulder is easy to crawl over.''
''Four feet in front of the stone are two large broken crown symbols, faintly glowing, one on the floor and one on the ceiling. If any character walks past those symbols without saying “regno vicem regis” (RAY-gnoh WEE-chaym RAY-geese, “I rule in place of kings”), a very loud boom sounds. (If the boulder trap were reset, it would fall a few seconds later.) Ghosts and Hrools may be attract''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 21 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int -3, Per +2, Pre 0, Com -3, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +1 Age: 39 Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Determined +2, Hopeful -2 Combat: War hammer: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +10, Damage +18 Short Bow: Init -1, Attack +11, Defense +4, Damage +12 Soak: +7 Abilities: Athletics 5 (stairs), Awareness 5 (guarding), Bow 4 (short bow), Brawl 4 (wrestling), Carouse 4 (songs), Great Weapon 6 (smashing stone), Latin 2 (listening), Local Language 3 (listening), Single Weapon 5 (long sword), Stealth 3 (shadowing), Thrown Weapon 5 (javelin) Powers: Smash Stone, 1 point, +1, Terram: Causes stone to weaken and crack when hit with his hammer. Equipment: War hammer, short bow, metal reinforced armor (half). Encumbrance: 0 (3) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Vis: 4 Mentem in his ghostly war hammer, if he does a good deed for the covenant. Appearance: Paulo is a very strong, broad-shouldered man in heavy leather armor and a metal helmet that covers his head like a hat, wielding a large hammer. He is determined and slow-witted, and deeply sad. He is also a ghost, though it is not easy to see this at first glance. Roleplaying Tips: Sway back and forth when you speak, standing ready for anything. Be distrustful, but very respectful of magi. Nod a lot even if you don’t understand, and never do anything you could not do if you were a real person. With little or no provocation, suddenly become very angry and begin smashing walls. As characters get to know Paulo, they should come to expect this behavior. What He Knows: Very little. He knows the difference between the two staircases, and that the wizards live on the lower levels. He does what his bosses tell him. Crenvalus once told him to watch the entrance, so he watches the entrance. He doesn’t know where everyone else is. Those in authority he obeys, those who threaten the covenant he attacks.''

==Paulo==


|}
''ed to the boom and some of the Hrools may even set up an ambush at the bottom of this staircase on the third floor. Most of the ghosts habitually mutter the password when they go into this stairway, even though they no longer need to.''
''The ghost of Paulo is on this level, continuing the guard duties that occupied him in life. By the time the characters reach the entrance hall, unless they are extraordinarily sneaky, he has seen them and has hidden in the corridor leading to the common staircase. It has not occurred to him that the characters are intruders, though he thinks they might oppose his master, Crenvalus, so he watches them from a distance. He will retreat if they move to take the common staircase, or follow them if they take the wizards’ stairs.''

===Paulo===

''Paulo is a warrior grog, extremely strong but passive. Presently, he wanders about, mournful and sad, lamenting in monosyllabic grunts the end of his days as the strongest grog of the covenant, when he proudly served his master Crenvalus. Paulo mumbles a lot but also screams sometimes; he has seemingly forgotten how''
''to speak, though if he must he will warble in a strange singsong manner, as if his voice were long out of practice.''
''Like many of the ghosts at the covenant, Paulo does not realize he is dead, and it is his stubborn determination and refusal to see this fact that keeps him here. He becomes very agitated when he is forced to recognize there is something wrong, and thus repeatedly undergoes strange mood swings: listless and not quite sure where he is one minute, angry and violent the next. When unoccupied, he fades into invisibility, disappearing into the shadows and muttering to himself, but when he finds a task he reappears and charges into action with a mighty cry of determination.''
''His main armament is a large hammer, with which he periodically hits the walls of the covenant when he is upset, actually causing them to crumble. He might become infuriated with the characters and smash walls and such around him in order to scare or harm them or even to block off their avenues of retreat. It costs him some of his Might each time he does this, and it takes about five blows to completely seal off a corridor. Other than this form of attack, he cannot hurt the characters, though he can fight other ghosts.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The fountain is a powerful magical artifact; it is the device that binds the dryad who powers the Veil of Mormulus to the covenant. It is extremely heavy, and not at all easy to move, as it is attached to the floor with thick, iron brackets. A Rego Terram ward prevents damage to the statue from physical objects, and a Rego Aquam effect transports water from the bottom of the well to fill the basin when it becomes low, keeping the water in motion to prevent it from becoming stagnant.''
''If the fountain is pried up from the ground and carried out of the covenant, the spirit of the dryad (page 29) will appear in the wood and beg the characters not to proceed. Carrying the statue out of the Veil will kill her. If they continue anyway, she will use her powers to confuse and mislead the characters, but if they have a diadem (see page 78) they will see right through these illusions. If they do not heed her, she will command the forest to attack as her last defense, trying to either damage or recover the statue.''
''At the edge of the regio the characters will feel a powerful tug, and if they persist, the statue will shudder and crack and its color will fade as the dryad dies. The Veil of Mormulus will fail, though the characters may not recognize this from outside. If they spend a season in the lab investigating the enchantment, they may learn something of how the device worked, but not very much because it is no longer magical once the faerie is dead.''
''If the characters find a way to damage the statue significantly (such as dropping it down the well) without removing it from the forest, they will release the dryad without destroying the Veil. The stone will lose some of its color, and a faint breeze will stir from the cracks, with a distant sound of buzzing bees and a thick, musty smell of papery bark. From then on, the dryad may be found in her palace, the satyrs will lose interest in their captive, and the Veil will be impassable for any characters not led by someone with a diadem (see page 24). Without the dryad to control them, the illusionary guides will become increasingly chaotic and garbled, perhaps misleading or even attacking visitors.''

==The Fountain==


|}
''If Paulo can do one last good deed for the covenant, something that protects it or the magi from terrible evil or desecration, he will pass on to the next world. One moment he will be there, proud and smiling for the first time since he died, and the next moment he will fade away into the shadows, but his ghostly hammer will remain.''

===Storage Room===

''Adjoining the entrance room is the equipment room with the large, iron double doors. At one time it contained much of the equipment the magi and grogs used on their journeys. These doors are now barricaded from within and require spells or an impressive feat of strength to open. A Strength + Athletics roll of 21+ will break through; if multiple people push, add each character’s Strength and use the highest Athletics score. Running shoves will add twice as much to the roll but may cause injury — subtract Soak from the total contribution and take any remainder as damage.''
''Two skeletons and a pile of chests and equipment are propped against the other side of the door, barricading it from within. Most of the armor, extra weapons, rope, oils, tents, tools, and dried food supplies are either damaged by fire or deteriorated with age, though if searched there is a good chance that a fairly common, mundane piece of equipment can be found. It will by no means be in perfect condition, however.''

===Archers’ Room===

''A short set of stairs leads ten feet up to a small archery chamber, with arrow slits facing the stairs on the other side. It is now in partial ruins, with gouges in the walls, and is empty. Paulo often stands here in the shadows, guarding the entrance, and if characters manage to enter invisibly and quietly enough to slip by his watch, he will be brooding by the arrow slits, gloomy and insubstantial.''

==The Second Level==

''The next level is where most of the grogs lived, serving as a bulwark against any mundane attack upon the covenant. Their barracks and meeting room are located here, as are several private rooms for their leaders. The ghost of Josephine, a grog of some distinction, may be found on this level.''

===Meeting Room===

''A large balcony overlooks the well from the meeting room, and characters falling from the upper level or the top may very well land here. A huge pile of rubble, rotting wood, ruined tapestries, and rusted metal lies in one corner. This is the lair of a family of rats, each two feet long with gleaming red eyes. When anyone enters the meeting room, a soft scuttling sound will fill the air as the few rats in this room retreat into their tunnels in the pile of rubble. They will wait there until they are alone again. The rats fight only when cornered, and their bites will not infect the characters with disease unless the players need a challenge.''

===Private Rooms===

''Two of the companions’ rooms still contain their personal belongings, but whatever can be found in the way of clothing and equipment is in a very sorry state; everything is in ruins.''
''The first room (closest to the stairs) is empty, but the ghost of Josephine, one of the covenant’s custodes, haunts the middle room. She is crying, lying on an imaginary bed with her arm hanging over her eyes. Her sobs are interspersed with lamentations about her son, Gemaric.''

===Josephine===

''Josephine will only speak to other warriors, and will be very frightened if a character with higher than grog status attempts to speak with her. She will vanish if she is threatened by any nongrogs. She is very suspicious and believes that everyone lies to her. She can be boring and repetitive, but she is also easily angered if ignored.''
''Josephine served Ornath until he left the covenant. She was slain during the confusion of the Sundering, and has been driven almost mad with grief. She is obsessed with telling others about the fall of the covenant and how terrible it was. There was a lot of fighting, which she describes in gruesome detail. The grogs from the outer barracks set fire to the bridge, and they had to shoot at them through the smoke. Her husband died in a skirmish in the banquet hall. She had to kill her cousin Michael, who took part in the rebellion, She tried to sneak her son Gemaric out through the lower levels when the magi began fighting, but they were caught and punished by Uderzus, and she never saw the boy again.''
''Josephine believes that her son is still alive; she pleads with the characters to tell her where he is. She is convinced he is some''
''where in the ruins and that the five year old boy is suffering. If she finds him, speaks with him, and decides that he will receive proper care without her, she will pass on, as she will feel her earthly duties are finished. If Gemaric is taken from Calebais by characters who Josephine believes will not take care of him, her ghost will accompany them and haunt them as viciously as she can.''
''In life, Josephine was an accomplished pickpocket and even as a ghost she cannot resist lifting the occasional bauble from a purse. To this end, she can use 2 Might points to attempt to filch an item. She must go through the motions, rolling her Dexterity + Legerdemain against her victim’s Perception + Awareness. Stolen objects become ghostly, but return to physical form when Josephine releases them.''
''The last room, like the storeroom upstairs, is locked and barricaded from the inside (ease factor of 12+ to open it). Paulo’s body is within, with most of his personal things, such as his clothing, armor, and wages. If characters search carefully, they may find some sinister items under the collapsed boards of his bed: black candles, a small statue, and a book of evil prayers. These occult paraphernalia are merely trinkets he picked up on one of his missions for the covenant; he can’t read. Characters may notice the candles have never been used.''
''If Paulo watches the group enter his room, he will be sorely tempted to attack, as their behavior may cause him to realize''
''that they are not guests. He will wait to see if they find his treasures, and then ambush them when they leave.''

===Barracks===

''The remains of bunks sag inside each of the alcoves (four in each), and wooden chests are strewn in pieces across the floor. There are piles of rubble along the wall, but the center of the floor is mostly clear. The remains of more than ten human skeletons, still wearing armor and bearing rusty weapons, can be found amid the refuse. Cheap jewelry and silver may be found if the characters search carefully. Crude sexual pictures are drawn on the wall in the alcove near the large staircase, and broken chamber pots lie where they rolled into the main room.''

==The Third Level==

''Here were located the kitchen, banquet hall, storage rooms, and greeting hall for visitors. Now, the floor is wholly occupied by a tribe of Hrools who live mainly in the banquet hall. Some Hrools are likely to be spread out on this level, but if they hear the adventurers coming, they will group together in their lair.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre -1, Com -1, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +1 Age: 25 Personality Traits: Suspicious +3, Obsessed +2, Forgiving -2 Combat: Long Spear: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +11, Damage +7 Short Sword: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +7 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Athletics 4 (stairs), Brawl 4 (dodge), Bows 2 (short bow), Great Weapon 5 (spear), Legerdemain 5 (stealing), Local Area Lore 3 (families), Local Language 5 (slang), Single Weapon 4 (short sword) Powers: Filch, 2 points, +1, Terram: Josephine can attempt to steal an item using her Legerdemain. If she succeeds without being detected, the item becomes ghostly until she ditches it.''
''Equipment: Long spear, short sword, metal reinforced leather armor (hauberk). Encumbrance: 1 (2) Vis: 3 Mentem in her ghostly spear, if Gemaric is rescued Appearance: Josephine is a very hazy ghost of a strong, young woman in torn leather armor. She clutches a spear and has a short sword buckled at her side. Her cheeks are lined from tears, and she bows her head and covers her eyes with her forearm as she shakes with grief. Roleplaying Tips: Pretend to grasp the shaft of her spear, and let your hands tremble as you speak; the violence of your grip symbolizes her pain and loss. What She Knows: She can sketch some of the details of the fighting among the grogs, three factions that began fighting each other at the orders of their magi. One was Crenvalus’s, one was Granorda’s, and the rest were neutral.''

==Josephine==


|}
''When the characters enter this level (and maybe before), they will hear David’s shouts coming from the Greeting Hall.''

===Greeting Hall===

''The ghost of David paces up and down the room, shouting at the walls with uncontained rage. There are stone benches built into all the walls, a rotted wooden table and some chairs running down the middle, and a five-foot-wide magical mirror hangs on the wall opposite the door. At one time, this heavy looking glass showed the surroundings of the stone pylon that stands at the entrance to the Veil of Mormulus, and the captain of the guard''
''would use it to watch for visitors to Calebais who waited at the pylon for a guide. Because of Mormulus’s spell, however, the mirror stopped functioning, and dark clouds roll across its image. If taken outside of the Veil, it will work once again, but it will still show only the pylon and its surroundings.''

===David===

''David spent the Sundering trying to regain control of the grogs, but they had divided into factions long before then, each favoring different magi who promised rewards in return for their support. The covenant developed into a disparate group of armed''
''Magic Might: 29 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Age: 27 Personality Traits: Commanding +3, Loyal +2, Merciful -2 Combat: Long Sword and Kite Shield: Init +2, +9, +12, +18 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Athletics 4 (stairs), Awareness 4 (alertness), Brawl 3 (dodging), Carouse 1, Folk Ken 2 (magi), Latin 4 (receiving orders), Leadership 5 (small groups), Local Area Lore 4 (directions), Local Language 5 (giving orders), Single Weapon 4 (long sword) Powers: Command Warrior, 3 points, +0, Mentem: Forces up to a Group of trained warriors to perform an action he commands that falls within their normal duties, unless resisted with a Loyal roll of 9+. Ghostly Flames, 4 points, +1, Ignem: David’s sword passes through shield and armor, but the flames still damage flesh. When he uses this power, ignore his opponent’s Defense and Protection, and treat Damage as +8. Equipment: David has ghostly versions of his sword and heater shield. If the characters should come across the real versions or his suit of chain mail, he will claim them, and merge them with their ghostly counterparts. The chain mail gives him +9 Soak and 1 Encumbrance.''
''Encumbrance: 0 (2) Vis: 6 Mentem total in his ghostly sword, shield, and mail (or their physical counterparts if he has them), if he sees Crenvalus defeated. Appearance: David is a well-formed, whole-body apparition of an experienced warrior, with the symbol of Calebais (the broken crown and flames) emblazoned in full color on his surcoat and shield. He carries a large sword at his side, and his abdomen is wrapped in bloody bandages. Roleplaying Tips: Assume a strong demeanor and a leader’s tone of voice. Don’t let anyone give you crap. David will either see the characters as superiors to whom he can report, or intruders whom he must scare away, and it all depends on what they say or do. Strong, decisive leadership will quickly gain his respect. What He Knows: David can give visitors directions and advises them to stay in their quarters where it is safe. If they are willing to help him restore order, he can describe many of the magi and outline the general timeline of the Sundering. He thinks a group loyal to Granorda initiated the conflict, but almost everyone died in the rebellion, the great tremor, or a sudden attack of satyrs who made it all the way to the sixth level. He has never seen the Bell, but Larine told him about it; she said she there was a strange book in the library that described its origins. He does not know what became of her and hopes that she is hiding somewhere safe. He will recognize Crenvalus’s letter if it is shown to him, but it will drive him into an incoherent rage that he cannot explain, and he might even try to destroy it.''

==David, Captain of the Guard==

''camps, and David could not restore unity. He is still energetically trying to figure out what is going on, and to report what he has found to the council so he can receive new orders. He may come to realize he is dead, but he is used to unusual happenings and will continue to serve as long as he can.''
''Before he died, David was injured in battle against a group of satyrs. Even though he is dead and technically has no physical body, he fights as if he were still recovering from his wounds, giving him a -2 penalty to his actions. If he realizes he is a ghost he may ignore this penalty.''
''If David encounters Ferdina, the autocrat, he will forget his mission and berate her for failing to prevent the Sundering. He yells at her, “That’s what we were paying you for!” He lauds her accounting skills and ridicules her leadership. David has nothing but contempt for the pathetic way she went to the magi who were organizing the fighting and begged them to stop.''
''David has the power to command any trained warrior to perform an action that normally falls within his or her duties. He can also damage living beings with his sword, flailing at his opponents with unstoppable blows. Both of these powers weaken him, so he will wait until the situation is dire before he uses them,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Int -2, Per 0, Pre -2, Com -3, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: -2 Confidence: 2 (5) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Protective +2, Generous -2 Combat: Long sword: Init +4, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +18 Stone (thrown): Init -1, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage +8 Bite: Init +4, Attack +5, Defense +9, Damage +2 Soak: -1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-3), -3 (4-6), -5 (7-9), Incapacitated (10-12) Abilities: Athletics 3 (climbing), Brawl 3 (grapple), Hunt 3 (rats), Leadership 4 (combat), Single Weapon 4 (long sword), Speak Hrool 2 (orders), Swim 3 (diving), Thrown Weapons 1 (rocks)''
''Equipment: David’s long sword (wielded two-handed), ill-fitting leather gloves, and a hastily-constructed hauberk. Encumbrance: 0 (2) Vis: 2 Animal, 10 Corpus in satyr horns Appearance: Hofot is an extremely large, bulky Hrool wearing a leather jerkin that appears to have been chewed to fit and carrying David’s magical long sword with both paws. Flames burn brightly along the edge of it. He wears a tattered leather coat and a necklace made from five satyr horns, and his arms are completely white. Note: Hofot can lead up to five Hrools as a trained group, and usually leads five warriors. Each group receives a +15 bonus to either attack or defense.''
''The sword has the symbol of Calebais sculpted into the hilt, and is an invested device with three powers. It can cast Blade of the Virulent Flame (CrIg Base 5, +1 Conc; +5 maintain concentration = Level 15), activated by holding the sword aloft as if to catch the light, and this effect is reflected in both Hofot’s and David’s stats. The sword also resists physical damage and rust, maintaining its edge throughout the years (CrTe Base 5, +2 Sun; +1 two uses per day, +3 activated by sunrise and sunset = Level 19). Finally, the sword cuts through magical defenses, taking down wards and even''
''Parmae. Whenever the sword comes in contact with a non-ritual spell of more than Momentary duration, roll a stress die (no botch). That spell is canceled if its level is (20 + the roll) or less; Parmae are cut down if (20 + the roll) is more than (5 x Parma Magica). (PeVi Base 4, +1 Touch; unlimited +10, penetration 30 +15 = Level 30). If the ward would resist the effect, as Parma would, the sword’s power must penetrate the magic resistance.''

==Hofot, Champion Hrool==


==Captain’s Sword==


|}
''instead hanging back and watching his opponents for weaknesses, relying on his shield and armor (and his lack of substance) to protect him.''
''David and Larine were lovers, and if her name is mentioned, he will ask after her and will do nearly anything to ensure she is alive and safe. (Larine is the nun who gave the characters the letter, though they probably do not know this when they first meet him.)''
''David hates the wizard Crenvalus. He doesn’t remember being murdered by him, but he does think him a lunatic, responsible for initiating the Sundering, and goes into an irrational fury whenever he hears his name. If he ever happens to meet up with him, he will use his all of his powers of persuasion to get his companions to attack, and then flank the wizard while his attention is diverted. David cannot rest until he has punished Crenvalus for what he has done.''
''If any of the characters wear a diadem, David will react badly, demanding to know who gave them the authority to wear it. He can be bluffed, but it had better be a good story, backed up with some facts about the covenant.''

===Banquet Hall===

''The ceiling near the fireplace is only nine feet high, but it slopes upwards. Where the walls are parallel, the ceiling is 25 feet high. Against the far wall is a set of stairs leading up to a musicians’ loft, fifteen feet above the floor. The stone bowls and containers that litter the room are broken shards, mostly empty, and the remains of many rusted and worthless swords and axes are also strewn about. The fireplace vents out into the well. Nothing remains of the furniture that once filled this area. In the middle of the room sits a gilded dragon’s head, carved of stone and about ten feet long, clutching a broken crown in its mouth. It is covered with moss, lies on its side, and has a small statue of a Hrool placed on its snout.''
''Eighteen Hrools live here, including two ermines that live in the loft. There are all kinds of shamanic equipment stored there: dolls dangling from sticks, necklaces, geometric statues, and stones carved in the shapes of Hrool body parts. Dozens of foot-long statues of wizard-like figures and Hrools are stacked along the walls.''
''This is probably the first time the characters have encountered the Hrools. Besides their leaders, there are four adults, who are likely to be sleeping, six warriors, who will be startled and wait for instructions, and five pups, who are noncombatant and helpless. Their champion, Hofot, carries David’s sword and ignites it at first sign of trouble. The ermines, Nungasing and Yuzod, watch from the loft and support the others with their magic if the fight goes badly. Nungasing wears a diadem (see page 78).''

===Background: The Banquet Hall===

''The dragon’s head fell from above, where the ceiling dips down, from a huge stone relief of a dragon that once looked down upon the room. The body is gilded too, and even though it is partly covered with moss, its striking image is undiminished. If the players don’t seem to be noticing the symbolism of a broken dragon in a broken covenant biting a broken crown, you may want to casually mention it to them.''

===Kitchen===

''This once busy kitchen is now in ruins, though some heavy stone tables are still standing. The remains of bones, kitchen tools, platters and other refuse are found throughout. A large basin magically transports water from a source far below. The fireplaces vent out into the well, and the balcony was once used''
''to gather baskets lowered from the outside. Because of its positioning, characters falling from first setting foot on the bridge are more likely to land here than any of the other balconies.''

==The Fourth Level==

''The craft shops of the covenant were located here, as well as more private rooms of some of the custodes. In particular, an unusual rock (Gemaric) and a fire drake (Igack) inhabit this level. A few rats can be seen and heard scrambling about, and if it is day outside, bats will be sleeping inside many rock cracks and crevices.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Erechtheus of Mercere gave Gemaric a magic stone during the Sundering that transformed him into a rock, to protect the young boy. Unfortunately, the generous wizard died soon after, and Gemaric cannot cancel the effect. So, for all the intervening years Gemaric has remained a rock, unable to move, dreaming away his time. Yet his essential nature is that of a man, and it has recently begun to reassert itself. Perhaps because of the magic in the area or some talent of his own, Gemaric has grown legs and gained the ability to move about. He still has his sense of touch and his sense of hearing, but after exploring this level of the''
''covenant he found little to interest him and lapsed into his dream world. He spends most of his time immobile. Even when alert, his idea of the outside world is vague. If the magi can magically speak with him, or if he somehow learns to communicate (perhaps by drawing pictures in the dust), they will learn all this. If they are able to make him human again, or cancel the magical stone’s effect, they will produce a man in his fifties with the mind of a child and an incredible imagination. If Josephine sees him, she will recognize him no matter what his form and plead with the characters to make contact with him.''
''This item is about two feet wide and a few inches thick, and looks very much like Gemaric in his transformed state. It is a lesser magic device enchanted with one constant effect that changes it and whatever person is carrying it into a rock (MuCoTe Base 25, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 for special effect; +4 constant = Level 49). If its effect is dispelled, it will slip from Gemaric’s hands, but whoever picks it up might be affected by it the next time it triggers. Since part of the stone’s effect is that it''
''changes itself along with its wielder, the stone will remain part of Gemaric if he is magically given another form, and will change him back into a rock as soon as the new spell wears off. Investigation in the lab will reveal that there is a way to cancel the effect, which requires that the person make a particular sign with the fingers on either hand, and wiggle like a snake. These gestures cannot be seen by others, but the device knows when they have been performed.''

==Gemaric, Josephine’s Child==


==The Magical Stone of Erechtheus==


|}

===Wood Shop===

''Piles of rubble cover the floors about three or four feet high, especially near the walls. Old rusted carpentry tools can be found throughout, as well as numerous pieces of wood and shavings.''
''Hiding here is Gemaric, a child in the form of a small rock about two feet wide. When the characters enter this room, the rock will shift a bit, but characters will decide that it merely settled. If they look closely, Perception + Awareness rolls of 9+ reveal that it is not dusty, unlike everything else in the covenant. If they come within three feet of it, it jumps up a foot or so, quickly uncurls four little spindly legs, and attempts to run out the door. The rock has Quickness +5, so it will be difficult for the characters to catch. It darts out the door, sprints down the hall, and dives into another room to hide itself among the rubble. If characters begin searching among the rocks of subsequent rooms, Gemaric remains as still as he can, but Perception + Awareness rolls of 15+ notice him quivering. Gemaric will run again only if touched. Then, he will run until he cannot run anymore, and if sorely pressed he may accidentally slip into the well or lead the characters to Igack (see below). For a time, however, he will try to lose his pursuers in a merry chase through private rooms and the wood shop.''

===Small Storage Room===

''This room belongs to Igack, a small fire drake who was once Pitsdim’s familiar. When his master died he was devastated, but he did not waste away because Pitsdim continued to visit him regularly. The mystic cords that connected them were severed, though, leaving Igack aimless and more simple-minded than he once was. Now, he hunts down rats and several Hrools each month to stay alive (he enjoys terrorizing the ones in the garden, below), but otherwise he rarely leaves this level of the covenant.''

===Igack===

''Igack is frightened, lonely, and prone to treating intruders to the same fiery greeting that his master employs. He may even consider his breath affectionate, since it has never affected Pitsdim, who encouraged him to breathe at anyone who approached. In general, Igack is a trusting, friendly, and simple-minded creature. He can speak Latin if encouraged, but his pronunciation is abysmal and he only understands basic concepts.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 18 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int -4, Per -1, Pre 0, Com -2, Str +1, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: -1 Personality Traits: Hasty +3, Friendly +2, Generous -2 Combat: Bite and claw: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +6 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-4), -3 (5-8), -5 (9-12), Incapacitated (1316) Abilities: Athletics 2 (jumping), Awareness 5 (alertness), Brawl 5 (play-wrestling), Hunt 7 (Hrools), Latin 2 (simple words), Local Area Lore 6 (Calebais), Survival 3 (Calebais)''
''Powers: Fiery Breath, 2 points, +4, Ignem: Breathes fire that does +10 Damage to a single target within five paces. Dominate Animal, 3 points, +0, Animal: Gives an animal a silent order that it carries out to the best of its ability, delayed up to a month later. This doesn’t work on the Hrools. Equipment: Diadem Vis: 3 Ignem Appearance: Igack is a dragon-like serpent with shiny red scales and sharp teeth. He has no wings, but he does breathe fire and can move quickly on four legs. He is proud of the gold diadem he wears, a C-shaped crown with a green gemstone shaped like an eye that sits in the center of his forehead.''

==Igack, a Fire Drake==


|}

===Smithy===

''The forges where the weapons and much of the wizards’ lab equipment was forged and blown can be found here. Some unfinished examples of the smiths’ work are strewn about on the floor: sword handles, glass bowls, iron forceps, and wire cages.''

===Large Storage Room===

''Two large stone bins along the wall hold sand and ingots of bronze and iron. Small chests that have obviously been forced open sit beside them. A tall pile of rotted wood planks lies in the middle of the room and broken shelves line all the walls. A series of locked chests (Dexterity + Legerdemain roll of 12+ to open) hold sundry components for spells and magical research such as stork feathers, boar hair, lye, mercury, and salt.  They are in very poor condition.''

===Four Private Chambers===

''At one time, something obviously occupied these rooms, but now they are full of rubble, rubbish, and a few rats that have escaped Igack for the time being.''

===Leather and Cloth Shop===

''This room looks like someone took pleasure in reducing every smooth surface found in it into a mass of rubbish. The room is completely full of rubble, and even the ceiling has been broken up; therefore, there is no light here.  Perhaps some of the old crafters’ equipment could be found after much digging, but it is difficult even to walk through this chamber, let alone dig it up. Perceptive characters (Perception + Awareness roll of 9+) notice many old leather pelts mixed in with the rubble and a few rotted rolls of cloth.''

==The Fifth Level==

''On the fifth level lies the garden of the covenant and more rooms used by the custodes, including a common room where they gathered together. Many Hrools may be found on this level, as well as the ghost of the autocrat, Ferdina.''

===Common Room===

''At one time, this room was very comfortably furnished, but now most of its luxuries have deteriorated. Some rickety chairs and tables still stand, and a large keg that smells of vinegar (it was once wine) rests on a stand in the east corner. The two rooms connected to it are relatively clear of rubbish, but are empty except for some piles of rotting wood and rubble strewn about.''
''Ferdina, the autocrat, spends most of her days sulking here. She frequently imagines that she is again offering advice to Larine, the librarian, or sharing jokes with Parcimides the scribe, or keeping an eye on Dargaud, or deep in conversation about the parameters of magical theory with Erechtheus. To her, these old friends are quite real, and a person outside the chamber might hear voices other than hers as she talks.''

===Ferdina===

''Ferdina was the autocrat of Calebais, a term that older covenants use to describe the person responsible for the covenant’s mundane activities: keeping track of money, entertaining guests, supervising the staff, and so on. She was a marvel of organization and at any time could recite innumerable details about the financial status of the covenant. During the Sundering, she tried desperately to stop the fighting, but she found to her horror that the authority the wizards had given her was taken away as soon as they felt they had no more need for her. Pitsdim casually slew her because he found it annoying when she ordered him to stop burning the books in the library. She does not remember this and is still trying to regain control over the covenant so she can stop the fighting.''
''Ferdina grew up at the largest and most politically active covenant in this Tribunal, and was offered to Calebais in an attempt to stabilize it and bring peace. She failed utterly, and now she mainly thinks about how the folk of Calebais never listened to her, rather than considering her own lack of ability. She is humiliated by her failure and angered by the fact that she was “never given a chance.” If she is blamed too vehemently for the Sundering (by David, for instance), she will in turn blame David, arguing that it was his poor leadership that fractured the loyalties of the grogs, and that she had warned him of this repeatedly. It is extremely important for her to avoid blame for the Sundering; she will not admit that she had something to do with it. In all fairness, once they hear the whole story, the characters might realize how difficult Calebais would have been to manage. She will pass on if one of the wizards listens to her tale, and after hearing her side acknowledges that, indeed, she tried, and that she did her job until the end. This in turn will allow her to''
''recognize that she also bears some of the blame, which is what allows her to recognize and accept that she has died.''
''Ferdina carries the ghost of magical chime that was the formal means by which a council meeting was called. The chime caused the bell in the council chamber to reverberate in a low tone, which the magi knew meant to convene for a council meeting. Its physical counterpart has long since been broken, though she can will it to ring as it once did. If Ferdina passes on, she will leave the ghostly image of the chime behind, containing 5 pawns of Mentem vis.''
''If the characters encounter Ferdina outside of the common room, it will most likely be in the lower levels of the covenant rather''
''than in the higher, because her authority in the grogs’ territory was always fairly tenuous. In particular, she tries to avoid David if she can.''

===The Garden===

''The covenant’s garden has fared well. It has fared so well, in fact, that it is now overrun with plants. The bright light emanating from the ceiling continues to work, and clear water still trickles in off the walls. Vines and branches tumble out of the large window and hang down the side of the well. A few chirping birds can even be found here.''
''Magic Might: 25 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +2, Str -2, Sta -2, Dex 0, Qik 0 Age: 41 Personality Traits: Gentle +3, Loyal +1, Brave -3 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage -2 Soak: -2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 6 (Mathematics), Athletics 3 (stairs), Awareness 3 (alertness), Bargain 4 (arcane items), Carouse 2 (abstaining), Civil and Canon Law 2 (trade), Charm 2 (guests), Concentration 3 (reading), Etiquette 3 (hosting), Latin 5 (magical terms), Local Area Lore 4 (nobility), Local Language 6 (trade), Other Language 4 (trade), Magic Theory 2 (Hermetic limits), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (wizards), Philosophiae 3 (metaphysical) Powers: Ring the Chime, 15 points, +0, Mentem: When Ferdina strikes the memory of the chime she carries, the bell in the council chamber on the eighth floor will ring with a strange, ominous sound, and the ghosts of all the magi in the covenant will be compelled to attend a council meeting. Such a meeting is likely to end in (ghostly) bloodshed fairly quickly, but Ferdina may be able keep order for one or two items of business before the remaining magi remember their grudges and renew their battles.''
''Equipment: Council chime Vis: 5 Mentem in ghostly chime, if she earns the wizards’ respect for her actions Appearance: Ferdina is a thick, white, glowing apparition of a woman who has been badly burned (no hair, burn scars, blackened clothes). She might have a fearful, hunted look in her eyes, which contrasts with her otherwise erudite and noble bearing. She carries a ghostly magical chime, which is the last vestige of the respect and status she once held at Calebais. Roleplaying Tips: Speak crisply and precisely, keep your back straight, and never forget your manners. Let this thin veneer crack under pressure, though, especially if other ghosts taunt you and tell the characters the truth about your failure here. Ferdina will accept pity. If she is treated with respect, she will be astounded and will likely aid such “dignified folk” as much as she can, even going so far as to betray the covenant if she believes she is truly appreciated. What She Knows: Ferdina was a member of the council, and knows all of the magi at least by reputation. She can describe their accomplishments (she doesn’t know as much as she thinks about Magic Theory, but she gets some of the details right), including the newest effects of Mormulus’s Veil and how to activate Malevola Vida’s talisman. She used to have a diadem before the Sundering, and can tell some of what it did, but the magi took it away from her. She has never seen the Bell but she does know where it is (in the chambers on the other side of the magic door).''

==Ferdina, the Autocrat==

''Eight Hrools live here in the vegetative morass of confusion, and they find it easy to hide from, or ambush, any who enter (+6 to difficulties for spotting them with Perception + Awareness checks). There are two warriors, four adults, and two pups; their numbers have been thinned dramatically by Igack (page 52) and they are frightened and desperate. One of the warriors wears a diadem (see page 78) and fights with a club, and the other wields a wrought-iron rod with a large gem on the end of it like a mace (combat stats: +3, +8, +10, +7), which was actually the wizard Malevola Vida’s talisman.''
''A small magical spring bubbles out of a boulder and into a small pool. It has strange powers of fortification; if used to help cleanse wounds, it gives +1 to recovery rolls (CrCo(An) 10). It can also be collected as Creo vis; each pitcher of water is worth one pawn, but there is only enough water for four pitchers’ worth, and it takes a year to refill completely.''
''Also within the garden are various marble garden benches and a marble table with a chessboard etched into its surface. Overgrown plants cover all of these, and hundreds of flowers grow all about: tulips, pansies, lilacs, hyacinths, buttercups, shamrocks, and amaranths. The scent is almost overpowering, although it is not magical.''
''A concealed door hides a staircase down to Drininkeana’s lab. To find it, characters must search thoroughly and make a Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 9, or search halfheartedly and make a roll against an Ease Factor of 15. Even when found, the door is hard to open because there are no handholds on this side. It is made of stone, so a spontaneous Rego Terram spell will open it, or characters may clear away the vines and branches and pry it open.''

===Storage Room===

''This room was thoroughly burned, and nothing is left but ashes that have long since compacted into spongy dirt.''

==The Sixth Level==

''The sixth level is where three of the magi had laboratories and private chambers. These magi had the least authority in the covenant, as they had little to do with ruling Calebais and instead oversaw their own private domains. They took little interest in the events that followed the Sundering, and were taken by surprise when others came for them.''
''The floors on this level are cracked and jagged in places, perhaps showing through to the destruction on the level below, and the northern stairwell is filled with dirt. The seventh level was buried under tons of rubble as the rock that made up its ceilings collapsed during the events of the Sundering, and while this level still seems relatively unharmed, some sign of the underlying devastation may still show through, and it would be relatively easy for characters to widen cracks in the ground or even fall through if they are not careful. The magic that keeps the floors from collapsing is not strong enough to withstand concentrated effort.''

===Guard Room===

''The alcove in the hallway between the two main stairways is empty except for a stone bench that runs the length of the chamber, built into the wall, and a large bell one foot high fastened to the ceiling. A chain hangs down from the bell’s tongue,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''This black iron rod with a dark onyx at its tip has the power to shatter rock or metal anywhere within the sound of the wielder’s voice. It blasts a hole three feet deep and three feet wide in the shape of a half-sphere, leaving rough or jagged edges (PeTe5, +2 Voice, +1 Part; +10 unlimited = Level 30). The Hrools mistakenly wielding it as a weapon don’t know how to use it. You must say “Posse visum durare in aeternum” (POHS-say WEE-soom doo-RAH-ray een eye-TAYR-noom, “May the vision last forever”) and then swing the rod over your shoulder, back in front of''
''you, point the gem at the rock to be broken, and thrust the wand forward.) Magi may learn this through magical investigation in the lab, or by talking with Ferdina, for whom Malevola demonstrated it. This wand was going to serve as Malevola’s talisman, though she had not yet attuned it when she died. It was opened as an invested device, but this effect is the only one she completed. Or, if you wish, perhaps she instilled other effects that require magical investigation to reveal.''

==Malevola Vida’s Talisman==


|}
''and pulling the chain rings it. In the days of old, this alcove served as a guard post — the bell has a distinctive gong-like ring to it that can be heard up and down the well, and it may cause some of the ghosts to investigate, as it was common practice to ring the bell in case of an emergency, such as when someone fell into the well. Most of the ghosts will assume it means another attack, and those who do not like conflict will hide in their rooms, while others (like David or Pitsdim) might come running.''

===Drininkeana’s Laboratory===

''Drininkeana was quite skilled with plants and other forms of life and was the most knowledgeable wizard at Calebais in matters concerning growing things. She spent much of her time in the forests surrounding the covenant and it is because of her influence that it is such a haven of diverse herbs and plant life. She also took charge of the gardens on the floor above, and even had a private staircase leading up to it from her lab. The entrance to the gardens is concealed by a stone door that can be barred from the inside and is nearly flush with the outside wall.''
''A large bronze door stands at the entrance to her quarters, marked with the sanctum symbol recognized throughout the Order. It has been broken in and now hangs at an angle by one hinge. The inside of the lab can be clearly seen. The floor is made of rocks and dirt, and all of her laboratory equipment and personal possessions have been ruined and at least partially buried. This rubble is at least fifteen feet deep and part of level seven, below, where the rock that separated the two floors was destroyed and has been built up with dirt. Sticking up at an angle through the earth floor is a bronze pillar about three feet high with a sundial set into a small dish on the top. Moss grows in great profusion here.''
''Three massive guardians live in the ground beneath Drininkeana’s lab. If anyone steps inside, from either the entrance or the stair, one of them quickly bursts forth from the ground and crushes the intruder, and attracts the attention of the other two. Only if all three of these guardians are engaged in combat or destroyed can characters enter safely. The Hrools avoid the lab for fear of the guardians, so the moss goes unharvested. If any of the ghosts are friendly to the characters, they will warn them about these creatures, which they call Undertakers.''

==The Undertakers==

''An Undertaker is a kind of earth elemental that moves beneath the ground like an octopus swimming in water, but can hear when someone steps upon the earth above. These creatures are''
''charged with protecting the area from intruders. Each attacks with four tentacles that launch up from the ground beneath a target, grappling and pulling it into the loose dirt on subsequent rounds, leaving the corpse buried. Add their initiative roll to their first attack when they surprise a character in this way. When facing a concentrated attack, the Undertakers will try to knock their victims out in a scuffle, but they will not stay exposed for long before they retreat to ground, dragging whatever they have managed to grab with them.''
''The guardians periodically stir up the floor in this room, so if characters leave and return, they may notice that things are not where they were before. If the characters defeat the guardians and sift through the dirt, rocks, and garbage, they may find one or more of the following:''
''I. a number of intricately carved walking staves, each using a different plant as a motif II. the remnants of what was once ornate and gilded furniture made of rare woods, Palestinian cedar, and faerie oak III. two impossibly well preserved silk robes IV. an irregular, three foot wide slab of many-hued glass (once the bulk of Drininkana’s lab equipment)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 20 (Terram) Characteristics: Int -5, Per -2, Str +5, Sta +8, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size: +2 Combat: Tentacles: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +10, Damage +8 Soak: +26 (they take double damage from edged weapons) Wound Penalties: -1 (1-7), -3 (8-14), -5 (15-21), Incapacitated (22-28) Vis: 4 Terram Appearance: Undertakers are hard to see, because they spend most of their time underground. They are made entirely of tightly packed earth, and have four tentacles that sprout from the surface to grasp a victim. When they envelop or swallow intruders, they might appear to have mouths as they fold in on themselves, but they have no need of eyes, ears, or even a humanoid shape, as they are simply dirt that has been animated to take an efficient, mutable, and malevolent form.''

==The Undertakers==


|}
''V. a total of about six small, colored glass balls, half an inch thick, each containing one pawn of Vim vis. VI. satyr bones and horns (8 pawns of Corpus vis) VII. eight crystal vials, stoppered and containing water charged with magical effects that are cast on whoever drinks them: three green ones are Gift of the Frogs’ Legs (ReCo15), two light blue ones are Converse with Plants and Trees (InHe25), and four deep black ones are The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo35), which include arcane connections to this lab.''
''The small room adjoining her laboratory was Drininkeana’s personal quarters, and it is not as ruined as her laboratory, since it does not have an earthen floor, though there are cracks in the stone and the floor has settled in places. The room is drier than the others and most of the walls are still covered with extremely dusty tapestries depicting life in a tranquil forest setting. Portions of the tapestries will break away to the touch, so they cannot be removed. An unstained cedar table lies overturned in the middle of the room with two high-backed chairs. The top of the table has a large ink stain on it. A chest near the table contains decaying parchment, a variety of broken quill pens, and two books written by Drininkeana: a Level 5 Herbam summa, and a tractatus on Creo, both Quality 9.''
''Against the northeast wall sits a large, beautiful bed frame made of unstained cedar, its mattress rotted away on top of the bed boards. Beside it, near the door, is a long trunk about four feet long full of desiccated clothing, and on the other side of the bed is a large, free-standing cedar closet. Inside is Drininkeana’s skeletal corpse. She wears the remains of a long white gown and has a jeweled dagger stuck through her heart. It looks like she was thrown here on top of a pile of what was once elegant clothing. A small, unlocked chest lies beneath the bed and is partly filled with four jeweled rings, four finely-crafted vineshaped wooden bracelets, five pairs of insect-shaped gold earrings, and three topaz necklaces.''
''On the northwest side of this room is a pair of huge bronze doors, almost taking up the entire wall. They are inscribed with various symbols (an Intelligence + Magic Lore roll of 12+ reveals that they probably mean “danger”). The doors have two huge handles, but have been welded shut, though a spontaneous Perdo Terram spell could loosen the seal. Behind the doors are row after row of two foot deep shelves, each with hundreds of gleaming, fragile, translucent crystal plants and flowers in small vases. The beautiful “sculptures” are all perfect replicas of their respective species. If one of the plants is held for a few seconds in a living person’s hand, it suddenly turns into a real plant. (If it was being held anywhere but by the stem, for instance by a leaf, it might break and fall to the ground.) The flowers and plants are exquisite specimens, and their colors still gleam brightly, as if they were picked less than a minute ago. If undamaged, they return to crystal form once released.''

===Background: Drininkeana’s Laboratory===

''Drininkeana chose to deal with the Sundering by locking herself in her sanctum, relying on her undertakers to protect her and the moss to provide for her needs. She had a strong Parma Magica, and yet someone snuck into her room and slew her. The assassin was probably motivated by the stash of vis she kept under her bed — more than forty pawns’ worth, now gone. No one knows who was responsible for her death.''
''Her crystal plants were a gift from a powerful magus for whom she did a great favor. Drininkeana had a study requirement Flaw, and this exquisitely crafted set of lesser devices allowed her to increase her understanding of Herbam to master levels without needing to leave the covenant. She valued these so highly that she gave more thought to protecting them than herself; when the fighting began, she sealed the doors and cast a Watching Ward to alert her if they were tampered with. Alas, these preparations did her little good, since no one else cared about her great treasure, and they have been left undisturbed since her death.''

===Mormulus’s Laboratory===

''A heavy curtain hangs in tatters before the entrance to Mormulus’s laboratory, embroidered with a version of the symbol for a wizard’s sanctum. Beyond is a web of confusing images, part of an elaborate trap Mormulus had set during the Sundering to keep himself safe from the fighting. His entire laboratory is an invested device designed to create an illusory landscape, which changes according to his whim. This enchantment backfired when a grog wandered into his realm while Mormulus was sleeping and became disoriented, violently swinging his weapon about, and killing Mormulus with a lucky hit.''
''Somewhere among these illusions, as an integral part of them, you should introduce the ghost of Mormulus. He may be sitting under an oak tree singing a ballad to himself, or leaping from cloud to cloud trying to escape a flying demon. When the characters first meet him, he will not look anything like himself; rather he will be some other character who fits well into the current illusion. In fact, the only other person the characters will ever interact with here is Mormulus. Since the room is so small, the characters will never lose track of each other and will usually be able to see and interact with one another. Only after exploring all the dramatic potential of this scene should the characters finally encounter Mormulus as he truly is.''
''Magic Might: 60 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per -2, Pre +3, Com +3, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik -3 Age: 140 (25) Size: 0 Personality Traits: Curious +2, Focused -3, Passionate -5 Combat: Dodge: Init -3, Attack +0, Defense -3, Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 4 (rhetoric), Carouse 4 (storytelling), Charm 5 (over time), Concentration 7 (lab work), English 5 (storytelling), Etiquette 3 (faeries), Faerie Lore 5 (nature), Finesse 3 (Imaginem), Folk Ken 7 (magi), French 5 (storytelling), German 5 (storytelling), Guile 2 (elaborate lies), House Merinita Lore 4 (personalities), Intrigue 3 (alliances), Local Area Lore 3 (faeries), Magic Theory 6 (enchantment), Music 3 (sing), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (spells), Parma Magica 9 (Mentem), Penetration 6 (Intellego), Philosophiae 3 (metaphysics), Sneak 3 (hiding) Arts: Cr 30, In 25, Mu 15, Pe 30, Re 12, An 5, Aq 9, Au 5, Co 30, He 12, Ig 5, Im 40, Me 20, Te 5, Vi 40 Powers: Ghostly Image, 0 points, constant, Imaginem: When he wishes to remain hidden, Mormulus cannot be perceived, even by other ghosts. When he does manifest, he may appear as any humanlike figure he can imagine, and seem as solid as he likes.''
''Ghostly Magic, 1 or more points, -3, by spell: Mormulus can make a spontaneous spell affect the physical world by spending 1 point of Might per magnitude of the effect. Ghostly Wisdom, 0 points, uncontrolled, Mentem: Mormulus can sense things about the characters, which gives him a very good idea of what they are thinking about. He can also see glimpses of their past and future. You can use this power to have him subtly warn the characters about events to come, or to design illusions that let the characters re-live events that happened to them long ago. Wizard’s Sigil: Mormulus’s magic always included some representation of his eyes. For example, in an outdoor illusion, characters might notice how the sun seems to reflect light like a pupil. All the characters he plays in his illusion have the same small, dark eyes, like tiny mulberries. Vis: 12 Imaginem in the ghostly version of his diadem, if he can be made to feel remorse Appearance: Mormulus is a vivid image of a magus with a multicolored robe, wild hair, and a confident though strangely detached demeanor. While he may look very young, he has more than a century of experience in his eyes. He wears a thin wire crown with a green gem at his forehead. Roleplaying Tips: When the characters meet the true Mormulus, never pay attention to any one person for a very long time and even while listening, constantly look away from them into the living world of illusion that surrounds you. Play his dazed, confused qualities as thickly as you can.''

==Mormulus, Magister of Illusion==

''In Ars Magica, images created by magic are real, even though the things they appear to be are not. This means that a spell that creates the image of something solid can mimic feelings associated with touch: temperature, texture, sharpness, “give,” and even solidity. Illusions may thus appear to have substance. Much like they would instinctively draw their hands away from a flame, characters will instinctively hesitate before charging blindly into what seems to be a solid wall. The Mentem effects that form part of Mormulus’s illusions back this up, influencing characters’ minds so that they subconsciously avoid doing things that would show the illusions for what they are. However, the Mentem effect has no penetration, and thus does not affect any characters with magic resistance.''
''Despite the Mentem effects, the illusions have no actual substance, and a character who does charge at an illusory wall, or stumbles back into an illusory table, will pass right through. This feels extremely odd. Characters who have some experience with illusions can deliberately move their hands towards and through an apparently solid surface, to see if it really is.''
''Although characters are likely to quickly determine that the images in Mormulus’s laboratory are nothing but illusions, this does not help them much. The images are real, and knowing that there is nothing solid behind them does not help the characters to see through them, or overcome the confusing Mentem effects.''
''Items the characters might find include:''
''I. Weirdly shaped stone tables, but with all the equipment ruined and in pieces on the floor II. Broken furniture, as well as the rotting contents of various trunks and cabinets III. A small pool of water IV. A statue of a mushroom, about three feet high V. A statue of a broken crown set into the floor, two feet across VI. The corpse of Mormulus, long decayed (could be anywhere)''
''One of the diadems is also here, and it is the real treasure of this room. Therefore, it should only be included in the final part of the illusion, when the players can see Mormulus as he looks to himself. The actual diadem will be found somewhere near the remains of his body, for he kept it on him but did not usually wear it all the time, but the characters will be unable to find it unless Mormulus removes its ghostly counterpart.''
''Those who wear diadems can see through these illusions if they wish, or take control of them after Mormulus is gone, but cannot see Mormulus or his diadem unless he wills it. Those with Second Sight might see past the illusion to perceive the true nature of the room, but only with a Perception + Second Sight roll of 24+, because the effect is so powerful. The effects that generate these illusions have Creo, Perdo, Rego, Imaginem, Mentem, and Vim components, and the highest is Level 80.''
''If a character seems to be figuring out the illusions, you can rule that everything still feels like the illusion, even if they know better. If the characters begin to run around, let them run into the walls, but change the details of the setting so that some sort of wall is really there, and then insist that it was there all along. If you can evoke the confusing nature of these illusions through your storytelling style, even though it may frustrate players who prefer more direct action, this scene will be greatly enhanced.''
''Magic may seem to have an effect in this dream world, though this is simply part of the illusion and the spells will not actually succeed if they are cast at something that does not exist. If a spell is cast that affects one of the tables, or Mormulus, or the images created by the room, then it will probably work (though it may be resisted), and this may or may not be reflected in the illusion. Spells cast on people will usually work, if they are where they seem to be. All targeting rolls are at -5, however, due to the confusing nature of this place.''
''Imaginative characters can actually change the illusions, simply by suggesting them to be something else, as this is part of the nature of the faerie magic that Mormulus practices. In particular, characters with Free Expression may find that they have powers in this room that rival those of magi. However, if they try to make the room appear as it actually is, they will instead produce a distorted reflection of it, depending on what they think is where, and they may find themselves in an unpleasant battle of wills with Mormulus.''
''This part of the story can take as long as you like; if the players don’t seem to be enjoying themselves, cut it short, but if they are really interested, let yourself go wild. Don’t let the game get out of control, of course. Underneath the chaos, everything should make sense (if only to you) so that you can explain everything after the scene is over. All in all, the secret to running this part of the story is to have fun with it. It may be hard to manage, but it will be well worth the effort.''

==Illusions==


===Mormulus===

''Mormulus was an energetic, youthful magus in life, and his vibrant energy has carried over to his ghostly existence. He rarely questions himself and takes joy in watching the unraveling of the illusionary world about him. If questioned about the reality of the images in his room, he will laugh and say, “But all of life is an illusion, don’t you know that?” The new images and scenes that the characters bring in with them will delight him; if he can, he will try to manipulate the illusions to keep the characters in his chambers as long as possible. He won’t answer questions about the Bell or the covenant.''
''His corpse is lost somewhere within the room, and he does not remember that he has died. After many decades in his room of illusions, he has a hard time separating truth from fiction. He may periodically lose interest in the characters, even after they explain things to him, because he still is in the habit of treating everything as illusions that he can ignore or change when he grows bored with them. If the characters can get him to recognize that he is wearing a diadem, he may take them more seriously, since he knows that one of the crown’s powers allows him to see through his illusions. This may cause him to question if there is something wrong with the effect, and ultimately realize that he is not actually wearing his diadem, giving the real one to the characters.''
''Mormulus is fascinated with the role he played in destroying the covenant. He mulls the events over and over in his mind and often reenacts the deaths of his sodales and custodes in an attempt to feel something, but he has never felt any emotion concerning what happened. For some reason, his heart and mind feel empty. Until he can feel remorse over his tragic mistake, he cannot pass on to the next world. This is not likely to happen unless the characters play through the events of the Sundering with him to find something that he can recognize as “real,” and then bring what remains of it to him. For example, he may remember that it was Paulo who killed him, or realize how he has abandoned the dryad, or he may feel sorry for his sodales when he learns what happened to them. When he confronts the consequences of his detachment, he will overcome it. This should take him a very long time and a lot of thought; characters will probably have to leave and return several times to redeem him. In fact, it is better saved as a loose end for characters who return to the ruins after the Bell is recovered.''
''Until then, you can let your imagination and creativity carry you, because the whole room is constantly filled with some kind of illusion. These can take any form, including entire landscapes that extend to the horizon, and can change in the blink of an eye (but don’t do this too often — players will become very confused if you abuse this effect). The settings can be weird and exotic, such as a faerie palace on a mountaintop, or strangely''
''mundane, as a deserted city street. However, there are never people that the characters can interact with in the illusion, unless it is Mormulus himself playing the part.''
''Mormulus can sense things about the characters, and he works this knowledge into his enchantment. If you would like to develop this scene into an entire session, have all the players secretly write down some event that was important in their characters’ pasts: events that might be in the backs of their minds while they are exploring the ruins. Also note powerful scenes that have happened since they entered Calebais, or scenes that you suspect will happen later and you would like to foreshadow. Take these ideas and mix them up with all the things that Mormulus is thinking about (the early days of the covenant, the Sundering, his Veil and the dryad, the Bell of Ibyn) to create a web of confusion and illusion worthy of a master storyteller.''
''Go through each idea for a landscape in turn, but have them fade smoothly from one to another. Don’t simply go from caverns to the ocean; instead tell the characters that they find a pool in the caverns, and as they look into it they find themselves mesmerized by their reflections, the patterns in the water and the soft tinkling of the ripples, which grow bigger and louder until they find themselves tossed and turned by the waves of the sea.''
''The floor is pitted and cracked from the great damage to the level below, but this will never be visible as it is always incorporated into the illusion. Characters may be able to feel their way around different objects; they will not affect the environment of the room directly, though they may also play a part in the illusion. If the characters close their eyes and crawl about the floor, they may be able to feel out these items, but even then it will be difficult, because the wizard’s spells also affect the sensation of touch.''

===Ierimyra’s Laboratory===

''These rooms were owned by the wizard Ierimyra, and her ghost still lives within them. They are also inhabited by Hrools — lots of Hrools. Two huge wooden doors that once stood at the entrance to her sanctum now lie on the ground before it, partially covered with rubble and refuse. Beyond, characters will probably encounter Ierimyra’s ghost pacing between her living quarters and her laboratory, as she regularly does.''

===Ierimyra===

''One of the other wizards, Eonus, destroyed Ierimyra’s mind during the Sundering, but she survived, tended by her Hrools. A few years later, however, raiding satyrs made it past her guards and killed her. She does not quite realize that she is dead. She is still driven by a powerful need to protect the Hrools, for she is dimly aware that they are in great danger at Calebais. However, it is almost impossible to get her to recognize that the Hrools are safe, even if taken elsewhere, because she cannot leave. Without the Hrools, she be overcome with grief, though perhaps if the characters return after several years with a few older Hrools she will see that they are secure and will be comforted.''
''Ierimyra brought the first Hrools to Calebais and through years of lab work and experimentation granted them human intelligence (see the Appendix). Even though she is now feeble-minded, the Hrools still practically worship her and try to follow her orders — whenever she says anything that can be understood, that is. In a fight, she will aid the Hrools directly, and something about her close emotional connection to them makes her able to affect them physically, even if she cannot affect other things of the real world. This will involve healing them, calling for reinforcements, or giving them magical strength. She may not even be aware of the characters, or may confuse them with satyrs or the other wizards of Calebais when she does see them, but will remain focused on her children and their needs.''
''Magic Might: 42 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per –1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +1 Age: 79 (40) Personality Traits: Maternal +2, Megalomaniacal +1, Calm -3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +0 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (ferrets), Animal Ken 5, Artes Liberales 5 (logic), Concentration 6 (spells), Craft: Sculpting 4 (figurines), English 5 (spoken), House Bjornaer Lore 2 (history), Latin 5 (spoken), Local Area Lore 4 (magical places), Magic Lore 2 (places), Magic Theory 4 (enchanting), Parma Magica 7 (Corpus), Philosophiae 6 (natural), Survival 3 (forest), Teaching 4 (animals) Arts: Cr 20, Mu 10, Re 15, An 22, Me 12, Te 8 Powers: Ghostly Magic, 1 point or more, +1, by spell: Ierimyra can make a spell affect the physical world by spending 1 point of temporary Might per magnitude of the effect. Ghostly Vis, 1 point or more (special), +1, by spell: Ierimyra can permanently expend her Magic Might as vis, with each point lost equivalent to one pawn. Spells Known: Soothe Pains of the Beast (CrAn20, Ritual/+54) True Rest of the Injured Brute (CrAn20/+43)''
''Champion’s Strength (CrAn40, Ritual/+54): Increases an animal’s Strength by one, but no more than one beyond the animal’s natural score (Base 35, +1 Touch). Mend the Broken Figure (CrAn40, Ritual/+54): Heals all wounds. Ierimyra seems to sculpt the animal’s flesh during the spell, as if it were made of clay (Base 35, +1 Touch). Gift of Man’s Fortitude (MuAn15/+33): As Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude, but for animals. Commanding the Harnessed Beast (ReAn30/+38) Mind of the Beast (MuMe30/+33) Vis: 8 Creo in a ghostly figurine of herself, once she accepts that her Hrools are safe Appearance: Ierimyra is only a hazy, translucent image of a woman who wanders aimlessly with a vacuous expression on her weasel-like face, wringing her hands and desperately unsure what to do about matters that have become too great for her. She wears forester’s clothes (breeches, shirt, short cloak, cap), and is bloody from a ghastly puncture wound in her stomach, which she seems to have forgotten about. Her heart-beast is an ermine, but she is so lost that she doesn’t even remember how to change any more. Roleplaying Tips: Don’t just roleplay a drooling idiot; try instead to sound like an absent-minded professor who was hit on the head. Ierimyra is very emotional and responds to others only on an emotional level. Rational and intellectual arguments mean nothing; the Hrools mean everything. Answer questions with more important, more desperate questions that no one can understand: What about your children? Does anyone have any cloth? Where is everything hidden?''

==Ierimyra, Magister of Beasts==

''Ierimyra’s laboratory is not overrun with Hrools as one might expect — it’s taboo to them. The Hrools will not knowingly allow anyone into the room to loot it. It was partially ruined during the Sundering, and narrow crevasses in the floor reveal the darkness of the level fifteen feet below. Wider cracks in the walls demonstrate the force of the tremors that affected this area. Bottles, scraps of parchment, flasks, tubes, and other equipment are scattered all about. Her U-shaped stone lab table still stands in the center of the room, and piles of rubbish fill the corners. A large variety of different-sized iron cages, which contain the remains of both magical and mundane animals, cover the north wall. Four of the skeletons contain pawns of raw vis: an otter with 1 Aquam; a giant worm (now a husk) with 2 Terram; a dog with horns, 2 Muto; and a boar with golden tusks, 2 Perdo. All the cages are locked and heavily rusted. Moss, of course, grows thickly here.''
''The ground is safe to walk on, though it might not look like it, being paper-thin in many places. Most of the floors of the covenant had devices that kept them structurally sound, since in many places only a few feet of rock separated the two levels. Almost all of this material was brought down upon the labs below during Crenvalus’s great tremor spell, but the magic of the floor tiles still keeps this room intact. Still, it would not be wise to jump up and down or start hitting the floor with large, heavy objects.''
''Diligent searching through the garbage may uncover some of the following, based on Perception + Awareness rolls:''
''I. Small crystals scattered among the rubble next to leather pouches that once held them. These contain a total of 8 pawns of Vim vis. Moss has grown over them. II. A bronze, stoppered beaker filled with acid, about two feet long, stuck in a crevice in the floor, against a wall. If found, it can be pried out, though care should be taken to keep it upright when traveling. III. A large scroll with lab notes. It explains in detail the process Ierimyra followed to give the Hrools sentience, and if a wizard spends a season studying it, he or she will learn the methods described in the appendix. IV. Nine three-inch-high green stone statues of Hrools buried in the room. Anyone who searches will find them in the remnants of a wooden box wrapped in yards of mushy felt. V. A scroll with poetry concerning the beauty of wild animals (deer, wolves, hawks, etc.) and a few thoughts about how the natural magic of animals works in conjunction with their symbolic qualities (which may strike the interest of a player magus). VI. Eleven splintered and fragmented stone platters with maps carved on them, on and around the table. These lead to dragon holes, sources of raw vis, and sites of danger in the surrounding region. They are glossed with many comments, though they have begun to fade with time and the direc''
''tions are not always clear, since they are relative to each other. If care were taken in collecting them, it would not be very hard to reconstruct them, but if the characters just throw them into a bag, it will take at least a season to piece them back together. Use these maps as starting points for new stories — the magi should at least be able to obtain leads to some good sources of raw vis. VII. Under the table is a blue marble mortar and pestle, about the size of a soup bowl. VIII. Ierimyra’s gold wire diadem (see page 78), was kicked beneath the cages. Characters cannot see it in the darkness without shining some sort of light underneath.''
''In contrast, Ierimyra’s living quarters are stark and clear of rubble. Where parts of the walls or floors have collapsed, the rock has been taken away and the cracks swept clean of dust. The only moss that grows here is high on the walls and on the ceiling. In the center of the room is a pile of Hrool skeletons, fifteen feet across and five feet high. As may be obvious to the characters, this room is used as a cemetery. If characters look closely, they will notice that all the skulls have been broken apart or have large holes in them, and that some bunches of bones have been tied together with vines.''
''Beyond the antechamber and laboratory are the Hrool warrens. The lighting is very poor; there is only an occasional patch of magical light on the ceiling. Along many of the walls are surprisingly detailed carvings, which characters will realize were made by the Hrools. They depict their rescue from a dark, frightening place by a shining goddess, arrival in a kind of heaven, and then the destruction of that heaven when the gods made war on each other. The lumpy figures of the beings pictured can be described as childish at best, but they are usually recognizable as Hrools and magi. There is even a certain degree of beauty in the carvings, as evidence of young minds learning important life lessons.''
''The warrens stretch far into the rock in three directions, and even slope below the floor level. The ground is rough but any holes or cracks have been perfectly patched, and the ceilings are so low that most characters will have to stoop. Empty bowls and other containers litter the area; broken shards and a collection of heavily rusted (and worthless) swords and axes are strewn about. In the far corner of one cavern are six pups, which scamper through the rooms, play fighting and squealing. They will take no notice of what happens in the caverns, though if the Hrools have advance warning of approaching characters, they will hide the pups throughout the rubble for safety.''
''A pair of Hrool-sized tunnels lead to their “livestock pens,” where they raise rats in primitive cages sculpted from stone. The Hrools also keep a reservoir of drinking water pulled from the well in a great covered stone jar here, and have a large storeroom for fodder, packed close to full with moss (about two pawns’ worth). There is another''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per -1, Pre -3, Com -3, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +3 Size: -3 Confidence: 2 (5) Personality Traits: Careful +3, Dedicated +2, Brave -2 Combat: Bite and shield: Init +6, Attack +7, Defense +10, Damage +1 Spear and shield: Init +5, Attack +10, Defense +14, Damage +4 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-2), -3 (3-4), -5 (5-6), Incapacitated (7-8)''
''Abilities: Athletics 2 (climbing), Awareness 3, Brawl 2 (grapple), Leadership 4 (combat), Single Weapon 5 (spear), Speak Hrool 3 (orders), Stealth 3 (hiding), Swim 3 (diving) Equipment: David’s shield, and a wooden stake. Encumbrance: 2 (2) Vis: 2 Corpus in each satyr horn (8 total), 2 Animal Appearance: Hukla is a hero among his kind, exceptionally lithe and fast and dotted with white spots over his furry body. He wears a necklace with four satyr horns, a sign of great status among the Hrool. He carries a magical heater shield, which he can lift though it is bigger than he is, and usually carries a long spear.''
''The shield David carried is emblazoned with the symbol of Calebais, and has two powers invested in it: it is resistant to wear and age, preventing rust and mending itself when damaged (CrTe10, +2 Sun; +1 twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and''
''sunset = Level 24). Also, if held still for six seconds, it can turn the bearer and everything he carries invisible for as long as he remains in one place. (PeIm4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and sunset = Level 19).''
''David’s chain mail has three magical powers that were designed to trigger automatically every sunrise and sunset, though wounds do not heal naturally while the mail is worn and reopen soon after it is removed. These effects are: “heal the debilitating effects of disease, poison, or injury” (CrCo20, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and sunset = Level 39), “heal an incapacitating wound” (CrCo30, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1''
''twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and sunset = Level 49), and “reduce the intensity of all of a person’s emotions” (PeMe4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and sunset = Level 19). The mail is also resistant to wear and age, preventing rust and mending itself when damaged (CrTe10, +2 Sun; +1 twice per day, +3 activate at sunrise and sunset = Level 24).''

==Hukla, Champion Hrool==


==Captain’s Shield==


==Captain’s Mail==


|}
''exit tunnel that leads to the level below that they keep blocked. All of these areas have been carved from the rock by the ermines, and the doorways look almost chewed, as if Hrool-sized fistfuls were simply scooped out of the walls.''
''There are two ermines here, Arz and Kremin, and each one wears a diadem. There are also 22 adults and 11 warriors, though feel free to change this number if the characters are weak. This group of Hrools possesses David’s shield (carried by their champion, Hukla) and his chain mail, which is too big for Hrools to wear, so they keep it hidden on one side of the warrens. These Hrools fight with wooden spears that were once pieces of furniture or tool handles but that have been chewed into sharp stakes.''

==The Seventh Level==

''This level is almost completely impassable. Two laboratories and living quarters for magi were located here, but Crenvalus collapsed the floor above with a huge Rego Terram spell designed to kill Pitsdim, whose decaying remains are buried somewhere beneath tons of rubble. Only the smaller, western stairway and the well remain clear; the rest is full of dust, dirt, support timbers, rusted metal, and huge slabs of rock.''
''Feral Hrools and verminous creatures may be found burrowing through the maze of crawlspaces and tunnels that have been excavated throughout this level, and on the eastern side the Undertakers live in the earth directly beneath Drininkeana’s lab. Small chambers may have been unearthed at various points within the dirt and rock, and any of these areas would serve as lairs for all manner of strange inhabitants.''
''Play this floor by ear. Or, if you wish, you can instead leave this level clear and stock it with ideas of your own: other ghosts, magic items, traps, or whatever you think appropriate.''

==The Eighth Level==

''The eighth level is the location of the wizard’s council room, its antechamber, and the covenant’s formerly large library. It also hides the entrance to the covenant’s treasure vault and many of the answers to the questions that surround what happened at Calebais.''

===Library===

''The library is a large chamber with two lines of pillars giving the twenty foot high room a grand feeling. The upper parts of the walls have gilded carvings on them, depicting the potential of education. The north wall shows a maga standing proudly before a bearded, bare-chested giant sitting on a throne. The east wall shows a magus finding an enchanted clearing in a jungle-like faerie forest. The west wall depicts a maga with hand outstretched standing before a vast panorama of gold gilded stars. The south wall pictures a magus leading a sea of people up a mountain.''
''Perceptive characters might recognize the hand that wrote this as the same one that wrote the warning outside the covenant, Ornath of Guernicus.''
''All the books in the library have been burned. It looks as if some madman had a good time in here (and in fact, that’s exactly what happened). If the books had been in good shape, they would have made a fantastic treasure. Unfortunately, they have been thoroughly destroyed. The blackened husks of the covers and shelves can be found throughout the room. They are covered with ashes, and it appears as if someone dug through them, perhaps to be sure that they were all ruined. Small middle sections of certain books might be read, but they will be of no real use to the magi. If they were carefully pieced together after months of work, perhaps some mundane information could be retrieved,''
''but to study books requires that they be essentially complete, and these books cannot be mended.''
''There are six semi-private study alcoves built into niches along the walls. They are almost separate rooms that once had wooden screens blocking them off from the rest of the library. Some had simple lab equipment within. However, like the rest of the library, these alcoves are now useless.''

===Antechamber===

''The antechamber to the council room has stone benches built into the wall opposite the well, and its floor is covered with a complicated mosaic of colored tiles, detailing a golden dragon flying out of grim, dark hole in the hollow of a mountain. There is no rubble in this room and only a few decaying tapestries litter the floor where they fell from their hooks.''

===Council Room===

''The council room has a long, crafted stone table running down the middle of it. Around it are twelve chairs of different kinds, all of them large and ornately carved. Bright lights shine from above on each of the chairs, causing the dust in the air to sparkle and lending the room an air of majesty. The chamber is in fairly good shape, and some heavily tattered tapestries still hang on the walls. The only one on which a design may be deciphered has a map of the region around Calebais, but much of the detail has worn away.''
''Standing on the table is Pitsdim, the mad wizard, though the characters may not recognize him unless they have encountered him elsewhere. He is casting relatively minor fire spells (probably Pilums of Fire) towards the ceiling, and will be delighted to see that he has visitors.''

===Pitsdim===

''Pitsdim caused great damage within the covenant before he was slain by Crenvalus. He was one of the main perpetrators of the violence that brought the covenant down, and all the other ghosts hate him. He still wanders the covenant in the same frame of mind he had during the Sundering, best described as “Burn! Burn! Ha ha! Hee hee! Burn!” The characters may hear snatches of his maniacal laughter from below them as they explore the upper levels. He also hates Crenvalus, and when he is not lighting fires and giggling loudly, he mumbles to himself about the evil wizard’s plan to destroy the covenant.''
''He can cast powerful Ignem spells, and if he sees someone in the well or standing on a balcony above him, he may send a burst of flame at them, and if it misses it may continue out of the well and burn in the sky above the hill for a few seconds (these sorts of displays have fueled the rumors about a fire-breathing dragon in town). Alas, few of his ghostly spells have an effect on the living. Those struck feel and look burned, but the illusion passes quickly and leaves no damage. If he sends a bolt of fire at the party, they may think they are injured, for they will feel the burning sensation of the flames, but will realize that it was an illusion once the initial shock has worn off. He is used to fending off intruders with his magic, but he forgets that he must use his Might to affect the physical realm. Wait until the players encounter him in the council chamber before he begins using his “real” powers to devastate their ranks, and remember that he can still temporarily blind characters with bursts of illusory light, or cause fear or anger if he can catch a character’s eye.''
''In spite of the evidence, Pitsdim does not know he is a ghost, and since he is terrified of ending up in Hell’s fire, he will not accept that he is dead. His consuming fear of the inevitable has fueled his destructive insanity, and this mindless violence has kept him on earth. He will destroy those who try to convince him he has died rather than listen to what they have to say. He may heed his familiar, but since their bonds are broken, they must speak. Pitsdim will probably never accept his guilt, however. If the characters do manage somehow to defeat him with ghostly fire or convince him to burn himself up, he will not return, and his ashes will contain 7 pawns of Ignem vis.''
''If the characters manage to defeat or subdue Pitsdim, they will notice more of the details of this room. Most of the chairs around''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Etched in careful letters across this panorama are the following words.''
''CRENVALUS VISUS TUTUS FALSUS ERAT (krane-WAH-loos WEE-soos TOO-toos FAHL-soos ay-ROT) “Crenvalus, your vision was wrong.”''
''HABUIT SUPERBIAM NIMIAM (hah-BOO-eet soo-PAIR-bee-ahm NEE-mee-ahm) “You had too much pride.”''
''POSSEMUS LABORARE SIMUL UNA (Poh-SAY-moos LAY-bore-AH-ray SEE-mool OO-nah) “We could have worked together.”''

==The Engraving==


|}
''the council table are made of wood (still intact), and some are made of stone, and still others are made of tarnished bronze or brass. Many of the chairs are covered with moss, as is most of the table, but close inspection may reveal their high artistic quality. On the back of each chair (in Latin) is one of the following phrases:''

===Mormulus, Magister of Illusion Eonus, Magister of the Mind Erechtheus, Magister of Change Crenvalus, Magister of Control Uderzus, Magister of Perception Ventus Gurges, Magister of Weather Granorda, Magister of Death Ierimyra, Magister of Beasts===


===Pitsdim, Magister of Flames Drininkeana, Magister of Life Malevola Vida, Magister of Destruction Dargaud, Student of All Things===

''There are no inscriptions at the base of the table, and though a light shines down on a space at the head of the table, there is no chair. A window looks out over the well and carved on the opposite wall is a huge gilded sculpture of the symbol of Calebais: a broken crown in flames. It is fully visible from the council table. A small bell, two feet high, hangs in the corner, mounted on a wooden frame five feet above the floor. Made of bronze, it is round and only lightly engraved with some circular patterns running along the bottom edge, and the symbol of Calebais repeats three times around the middle.''
''Magic Might: 38 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre -2, Com -3, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Age: 82 (50) Personality Traits: Megalomaniacal +2, Brave -2, Loyal -2, Peaceful -3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +0 Staff (iron-tipped): Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +12, Damage +8 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Awareness 4 (alert), Brawl 4 (dodge), Concentration 3 (spells), Finesse 6 (Ignem), France Lore 3 (battles), Great Weapon 4 (staff), Local Language 5 (slang), Latin 2 (spoken), Magic Theory 3 (spells), Parma Magica 8 (Ignem), Penetration 8 (Creo) Arts: Cr 25, Co 15, Ig 25, Me 15, Vi 15 Powers: Ghostly Magic, 1 or more points, +2, by spell: Pitsdim can make a spell affect the physical world by spending 1 point of temporary Might per magnitude of the effect. Ghostly Vis, 1 or more points (special), +2, by spell: Pitsdim can permanently expend his Magic Might as vis, with each point lost equivalent to one pawn. Spells Known: Flash of the Scarlet Flames (CrIg15/+56) Ignite the Inflammable Item (CrIg15/+56): Sets fire to a slightly flammable object. (Base 5, +2 Voice) Pilum of Fire (CrIg20/+56)''
''Arc of Fiery Ribbons (CrIg25/+56) Ball of Abysmal Flame (CrIg35/+56) Conflagration of Light (CrIg50/+56): An enormous burst of fire launches from his fingers, burning each member of a group for +30 damage, and blinding those who see it as with Flash of the Scarlet Flames (Base 25, +2 Voice, +2 Group, +1 additional effect). Dive of the Dying Phoenix (CrIg50/+56): A small, flaming bird speeds from the caster to any target within sight and explodes on impact in a tremendous blast of flame, causing +30 damage and setting the target on fire as with Coat of Flame, though there is no Rego requisite to keep the flames from spreading. (Base 25, +3 Sight, +1 Conc, +1 flashy effect). Panic of the Trembling Heart (CrMe15/+43) Rising Ire (CrMe15/+43) Encumbrance: 0 (1) Vis: 7 Ignem in his ghostly ashes, if he burns away. Appearance: Pitsdim is a frightening image of a middle-aged, obviously crazy magus in burned and tattered robes, with wild, dusty hair and even wilder eyes, violently swinging an iron-tipped staff. He is missing many of his teeth, and cackles hollowly to himself while he sets fire to everything in sight. Roleplaying Tips: Practice the maniacal laugh (though not within hearing distance of people who wouldn’t understand) and speak with gusto. He is obviously insane, violent and without remorse; if you want to try to give him some depth, he is also frightened and childlike. His grand speeches are barely intelligible, full of clichés and insulting banter, clearly a preamble to him burning everything in sight.''

==Pitsdim, Magister of Flames==

''On the far wall from the entrance to this room, behind the head of the table, is a magical door. One of the ghosts (David or Ferdina) might tell the characters about it, if properly questioned and treated respectfully. They know that the wizards would cast a spell every time they wanted to go through the wall, and then they pushed their way through the rock. There is a tunnel beyond it, though they probably do not remember more than that.''
''Another means for characters to find out about the door is by noticing the skeletal hand sticking out of it. Characters are likely to overlook it when they first enter the room because the walls are splotched with stains and moss and the light in the corners is dim. After dealing with Pitsdim, however, when they approach the far wall they will see the hand sticking out about three and a half feet above the floor, as if someone were trying to reach out from the stone. They may also notice the tattered remains of a letter beneath it (if Pitsdim’s powers haven’t burned it to a crisp), but most of the page has been torn away, and age or fire has made it impossible to read.''
''The door is magical, and Intellego Vim spells will reveal that it is an active device with Muto Terram, and Intellego Vim effects. If a magus casts a spontaneous Muto Terram spell on it, of any magnitude, a six foot by five foot section of the wall becomes passable (Sun duration). The spell is the means to activate the item, and does not make the change itself. The first time this happens, the mummified corpse (David) will crumple and fall partially out into the council room. Those walking through the door must hold their breath and force their way through five feet of pudding-like rock until they get to the other side. Characters may need to make Brave checks of at least 6+ to attempt to cross. A low Brave roll or botch might mean that characters panic while inside the rock, digging in their heels or thrashing about as if drowning. Another spontaneous Muto Terram spell causes the door to close again.''
''David will be very uncomfortable in this room, and will become very angry if anyone treats the corpse badly or the magi use magic on it. He will decline offers for a proper burial as long as he is still a ghost, but will have great respect for any who propose one for him. He will have particular trouble passing through the door, but will manage it if he is ordered to go through and the magi proceed first.''
''The door leads to the inner chamber and the tunnel that leads to the vault.''

===Background: The Council Chamber===

''The bell that hangs here is not the Bell of Ibyn, but merely a bell that was used to call magi to council meetings. It sounds toneless''
''and flat when hit, for it was activated by striking the magical chime that Ferdina carried. Only the autocrat can now cause the bell to ring properly; if she does it will echo with an otherworldly quality, and the ghosts of the remaining magi will be compelled to gather in the council chamber.''
''Ornath’s simple wooden chair was removed after he departed. It used to sit at the end of the table, to represent his position as head of the council. With thirteen magi, Ornath only voted during ties, and decided the agenda for council meetings. It was his role to keep order, and the chaos that followed his departure was when the fighting began. Without him, the council was deadlocked, and no one was willing to give up their votes to control the proceedings, so his duties were given to the autocrat. She did not have their respect, however, and as soon as she became a hindrance to the plans of the ambitious magi, she was abandoned.''
''The letter remnant, once clutched by David’s skeletal hand in the doorway, may look familiar to the characters, since they received the other half at the beginning of the story. If they rescue it from the flames and manage to make the faded writing visible, they will see that it reads:''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''... hoards green treasure, one who hoards gold treasure, one who hunts in the village, one who hunts in the forest, one who is blunt, one who is sharp, one of bright silver, one of tarnished silver, and the thief in white. The answer is: A Crown.''
''Make your way to our council chamber, seven levels down. There, you may pass through the door of stone by inventing a spell of Muto and Terram, and then you must break through another wall that seals the corridor beyond. When you see the sun, speak the words “The crown is broken” to bring you safely through the tunnel, but ignore the chests and avoid the pitfalls in the floor to find the cavern where our greatest treasure lies.''
''Use our former glory for good, and share it justly and mercifully with your sodales, for I travel now to a place where wealth and power cannot help me. Think no more ill of Crenvalus, but pray instead for my soul, and perhaps I will see you from afar and thank you for your mercy.''
''Farewell, my friends; so passes Crenvalus, follower of Tytalus, and last of the wizards of Calebais.''

==Crenvalus’ Letter==


|}
''Crenvalus wrote this letter in a terrifying fit of remorse, and killed himself immediately afterward. He had given the message to David with instructions to take it to the redcaps, ensuring that it would spread throughout the Tribunal, but when he saw that he was not dead he had desperate second thoughts. He swept after David, and inexplicably closed the portal just as the captain was passing through, killing him. Yet David had stretched his hand bearing the letter through to the other side, and Larine, waiting for him and seeing what had happened, tore the letter from his grasp and fled the covenant, grieving for her lost love. Crenvalus cried after her to burn the letter, and never to betray the secrets of Calebais, but he does not know if she heard his ghostly commands. As time passed and no one made their way into the vaults, Crenvalus came to believe that she had done as he instructed.''

==The Ninth Level==

''The laboratory here has no contact with the rest of the covenant except through its balcony, so it is unlikely that characters will wind up here unless they have descended the well, either on purpose or by accident. The balcony is ornately carved with a basrelief of a great eagle in flight on the wall above, and some gleams of gold remain from the gilt. Characters may be able to see this balcony from the upper floors.''

===Ventus Gurges’s Laboratory===

''This area was the home and workplace of Ventus Gurges, a powerful magus who specialized in Auram and Aquam. A huge tapestry of a cloud, woven with silver thread against a black background, which is still largely intact, dominates the antechamber. It is more than twenty feet long and eight feet high, and bolts of lightning run from the cloud to the bottom of the tapestry. On the balcony is the emaciated corpse of Althea, Ventus Gurges’s assistant, and her ghost haunts this level. The characters will probably meet her almost immediately, because she will not wait long to approach guests to her master’s lab.''

===Althea===

''Althea starved to death after her master died in the Sundering, because his laboratory has no physical connection to the rest of the covenant, and her broken leg prevented her from climbing out. She was struck by falling rocks during a massive earthquake that shook the covenant, and pinned down. She could only get free by permanently damaging her leg. She has always been physically weak, emaciated, and cowardly. She is only a labora''
''tory assistant, not an apprentice, and had no magic. She remains spiteful to magi, for she believes their petty squabbles and lack of involvement in the day-to-day affairs of the covenant caused the Sundering. Sometimes she sits on the balcony and pours out her bitter sorrows in fits of loud weeping.''
''She will tell everything she knows about the laboratory if someone will give her some food to quiet her desperate hunger, which has grown over the last fifty years. To feed her, something edible must be given a spiritual component, as with a spontaneous MuAn or MuHe spell with a Mentem requisite. She also has the power of possession and may take over someone’s body so that she may eat. This may result in a humorous episode, but try to make it grim, too. Once fed, she will go to sleep near her remains and quietly pass on.''
''The laboratory was once well equipped, though little sign of that equipment remains. Rubble lies strewn about everywhere. Large boulders, fallen out of jagged depressions in the ceiling, sit within a maelstrom of destruction. The walls are cracked and falling in many places.''
''If anyone touches the massive table in the center of the room, a bolt of lightning (CrAu35) flies from a small silver knob on the west wall onto the table’s center, accompanied by a loud crack. If the lab were still functioning, this would light the materials here on fire, causing a mighty explosion, but the fuel is long gone and the trap is not as effective, save perhaps to knock intruders to the floor.''
''The north wall of the laboratory is covered with niches of all sizes that have been carved into the wall, floor to ceiling, creating a mosaic of square holes. Many are full, though very little of value remains. Most of the books have been ruined, but two tractatus on the history of the Order of Hermes, three on Roman history, and five on storm weather spells (Auram) are still legible, all of them Quality 8. Five goblet-sized glass containers each hold a bubble of viscous blue-black smoke, each worth a pawn of Auram vis. Three bucket-sized clay urns, sealed with wax, feel light enough to be empty, but each is labeled tempestas intestae (tem-PASTE-ahs inTASTE-eye, “tempest in a pot”), so characters should know to be careful; each contains a different kind of weather spirit or air elemental, and as they have not been bound in service they will simply wreak havoc if released. Some other niches hold bottles with strange and mundane liquids inside, while others hold jars of fur or butterfly wings, and a few hold silver objects formed into small, hand-sized sculptures symbolizing clouds and lightning bolts.''
''The room across the well from the laboratory has a large, gray cloud in the middle, thirty feet around, and the bowl-shaped floor is partially filled with water. Soon after the characters enter, the cloud begins to rain. This was once a test area for Ventus Gurges; he practiced his magic here and designed and perfected new Auram spells using the cloud. If the characters attempt to cast Auram magic at it, they find it is exceptionally easy to affect and manipulate.''
''More debris is spread through the small living quarters, and nothing else is left of the wizard’s personal belongings except for an occasional pile of rubbish. Angular, silver symbols ten feet high crowd the walls of the room, gently lit from above by a myriad of stars shining on the otherwise black ceiling.''

==Further Levels==

''The remaining levels are completely flooded, buried under water and sharing the depths with the great dragon statue that fills the central section. Many more laboratories and living quarters were located in this area, though not all of them had direct access to the well. If the characters have the means to explore them, you can extend the adventure, developing your own ideas for what they might find, but a better way to continue the story would be to put more detail into the upper levels and use these flooded levels to design a later expedition, after several game years have passed (“Return to the Broken Covenant”).''

==The Vault==

''This level will probably mark the end of the long journey the characters began by exploring Calebais, and it is rich with exam''
''ples of the paranoia, power and pride that came to possess the magi. Unlike the ghosts on the sixth level, or Pitsdim on the eighth, the wizards who have gathered here are the ones who had the highest status. There is little trace of their labs or living quarters, as they are buried under rock or submerged beneath tons of water, so the ghosts on this level inhabit the rooms where they can remember and revel in their influence and their covenant’s former glory.''
''Remember that these are the magi who were directly responsible for the disaster, even if they didn’t cause all of the damage, and each of them has a lesson to teach. They have all committed ruthless and cunning acts, but don’t give away their secrets until the moment is right. Instead, allow the players to become lulled by their ghostly stereotypes, and let the scenes drag on a little with their heavy symbolism. Then, before the characters lose interest, surprise and frighten them with sudden, swift, terrible action.''
''The characters will not necessarily leave here with the Bell of Ibyn. Defeating the foes that will oppose them and avoiding or surviving the traps that lie in wait will take great presence of mind and a good deal of luck. Even finding the chamber where the Bell lies will not be easy. Don’t be tempted to keep giving the players hints until they figure it out; the Bell is so powerful and useful that the characters should not be guaranteed success. If they don’t find it, they don’t find it.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre -3, Com +3, Str -3, Sta -2, Dex +1, Qik 0 Age: (70) Decrepitude: 3 Size: 0 Personality Traits: Forgiving -2, Hopeful -2, Brave -3 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense +0, Damage -3 Soak: -2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (1620) Abilities: Artes Liberales 4 (mathematics), Bargain 4 (food), Charm 4 (begging), Church Lore 3 (schools), Concentration 4 (writing), Latin 5 (reading), Local Area Lore 3 (history), Local Language 5 (academia), Magic Lore 3 (creatures), Magic Theory 2 (writing), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (labs), Philosophiae 2 (moral), Profession: Scribe 6 (Hermetic books), Theology 4 (history) Powers:''
''Possession, 3 points, +0, Mentem: Althea can take over a living body as if it were her own. Each round, the victim may make an Intellegence roll to resist, adding an appropriate Personality trait (e.g. Rebellious). On a 9+, she is driven out. On a 6+, the two wills are in conflict and neither may act. Otherwise, Althea may use the body as she wishes. Vis: 3 Corpus in her corpse if she manages to eat something Appearance: Althea is an elderly, emaciated woman in rags, hobbling on her cruelly fractured left leg, her eyes wild with hunger. Roleplaying Tips: Let your head dangle from your neck, and speak in a raspy, trembling voice. Stop speaking entirely every few seconds and look woeful. What She Knows: Althea was a relative of Ventus Gurges and came to work at the covenant late in her life, not long before the Sundering. She rarely left his laboratory, eating meals in her living quarters, and thus does not know much about the covenant. She does know that an earthquake killed her master and flooded the well, and that most of the lab notes she copied are kept in the library. She remembers seeing a text about a magical bell, though she recalls nothing of the substance.''

==Althea==


|}
''Furthermore, the final battles should press the characters so hard and cause so many casualties that they seriously consider retreating. Both the nearby village and the faerie forest can act as safe havens where the characters can rest and regain their strength for another assault. If they insist on pressing onward, no matter what the cost, you and the players must be prepared for characters to die in the attempt. For such a royal treasure, a high price must be paid or it will lose its value. Only the most brave and clever of players should have a chance at complete success.''

===The Inner Chamber===

''When the characters push through the magic door from the council room, they will emerge into pitch darkness (this section of the covenant is not magically lit). Once they make light, they will see a rough-hewn cave sloping down, with a wall made of smooth stone at the far end, obviously blocking the passage. Near the wall is a skeleton in rotted wizard’s clothing, still''
''clutching a staff (which is not, alas, magical). Etched crudely into the wall is a message, and a Perception + Latin roll of 6+ allows characters to make out the words.''
''There are numerous ways to break through the ten-foot thick wall, including enlisting the aid of Paulo, wielding magic, using the onyx-tipped staff, or applying brute force with picks and shovels. For magi, the wall will surely not be a major impediment. The air behind the wall is very stale, however, and it becomes heavily laden with dust as the characters walk around. From this point on, have characters check for the loss of a Fatigue level after each round of heavy exertion, rolling Stamina against an Ease Factor of 6.''
''Characters who explore the corners of the chamber may find the burned and dried husk of a dead fox (Crenvalus’s familiar), the crumbled remains of several wooden shelves, a scribe’s table, and a decaying stack of vellum that contains ancient and unreadable covenant records. The writing on these documents is faded and indecipherable, but its volume suggests it predates the Sundering by several years.''

===Background: The Inner Chamber===

''This area is where Crenvalus lived out his last hours, and his corpse lies without dignity on the floor. Since he couldn’t catch the crafty mage, Pitsdim killed Crenvalus’s familiar instead. Mad with rage and thirsty for vengeance, Crenvalus collapsed the entire seventh level, crushing Pitsdim but causing incredible damage to the rest of the covenant, flooding the lower levels and killing many of the remaining magi and their servants. Overcome with guilt, Crenvalus organized a mass grave for those of the fallen who could be recovered. David helped him carry their bodies to the burial chambers below, and then he sealed the tunnel with a solid wall of stone. Then, here in the simple chamber once used for covenant records, he composed his final message before taking his own life.''
''David stood loyally by his side through all this, and after seeing the wizard fall dead, he said a prayer and took the letter as he had promised, turning to slowly make his way back through the portal that would remain open until sundown. But Crenvalus found himself still standing when his body fell, and in confusion he frantically commanded David to stop, stop, for it seemed he was not dead, and everything was for nothing. Tormented and impotent, he grew furious with David, who stupidly no longer obeyed him, and in the blink of an eye he decided that he must make sure that the captain could not deliver his cursed letter. He quickly closed the portal, sealing David within.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''REVERTITE AD MUNDUM VESTRUM PROPRIUM (ray-VAIR-tee-TAY odd MOON-doom VAY-stroom PROHpree-oom) “Return to your own world.”''
''HIC SEPULCRUM CALEBASIS EST (heek say-POOL-kroom KAH-lay-BAHS-ees est) “This is the tomb of Calebais.”''
''SOMNUM INCOLAE INQUIETATE NON (SOHM-noom in-KOH-lie in-KWEE-ay-TAH-tay nohn) “Do not disturb the inhabitants’ slumber.”''
''PERMANEBO IN LOCLO HOC PROTEGAMQUAE RELIQUAS MERSERICORES EORES SEMPER (PAIR-mah-NAY-boh in LOH-koh hock proh-TAY-GAHMkwai RAY-lee-KWAHS mare-SAIR-ee-KOH-rays ay-OH-rahs SAME-pair) “I shall always remain here to protect their pitiful remains.”''
''IGNOSCETE NOBIS INSIPIENTIAM SUAM (EE-gnoh-SKAY-tay NOH-bees een-SEE-pee-AYN-tee-um SOO-ahm)''

==The Message==


|}
''Soon, Crenvalus came to understand the intricacies of his new form, though he lost much of his wisdom and became driven instead by paranoia, and he eventually pushed his incorporeal form through the great wall he had created to join the other ghosts in the chambers below. Having seen the devastation and ruin he has wrought, he will not choose to leave the treasure chambers now, but instead remains with his sodales, guarding their precious Bell against those who would steal it.''

===The Tunnel===

''Once they discover a way past the wall, the characters will find a tunnel fashioned into a ramp that spirals down into the darkness. The walls are very rough-hewn and uneven, as if they were dug out with a huge scoop, and the ramp descends forty feet, making four complete revolutions.''
''Thoughtful characters (Intelligence + Awareness of 15 or more) will realize that this path will take them below the water line of the flooded well. Characters with Premonitions or similar powers will begin to get a sense that they are in danger from “fire in the air” and “water in the earth” (Ease Factor 3).''
''If Paulo is still with the characters, you may want to remind them of his unpredictable tendencies by having him yell and begin causing trouble again. Characters should have a chance to remember his violent temper and the power of his war hammer before they proceed down the tunnel.''

===Perilous Sun===

''Halfway down the ramp is a stylized picture of the sun with three clouds surrounding it etched into the ceiling. Have players make a Perception + Awareness roll of 9+, but roll a separate die yourself. If any players succeed when you roll a 0, tell them that they see the symbol of Calebais instead (a broken crown with three flames), until they examine the picture more closely. This extra roll may throw off players who have come to rely on Perception rolls.''
''As the first character walks past this motif, a thunderbolt flies from its center and strikes that character’s head. If that character is under the influence of active magical effects or has the Gift, two bolts strike instead. Each bolt does +30 damage (a CrAu35 effect, with +25 Penetration), and because it specifically targets the head, the character will be knocked unconscious if this damage causes a heavy wound. In addition, all characters within thirty feet are deafened for several minutes unless they roll a 6 or better on a simple Stamina roll. The crack of thunder is loud enough to be heard from both the council room and the treasure chambers below.''
''Only the first character to pass the trap is struck, since it only activates once every twenty rounds, but if anyone says “Corona fracta est” (coh-ROH-nah FROCK-tah est, “The crown is broken”) while standing beneath the picture, or in fact any sentence in Latin that contains the words for “broken” and “crown,” the trap will be disarmed for several minutes.''

===Perilous Water===

''Just after the corridor turns again, it will be evident that water is seeping in through cracks in the wall and trickling down the ramp. The rest of the journey is very tricky, because the wet rock is very slick. All characters should make Dexterity + Athletics Encumbrance rolls against an Ease Factor of 12 to avoid sliding down the ramp (remember to take into account Virtues like Perfect Balance and Troupe Upbringing). Falling characters can catch themselves by succeeding on a subsequent Dexterity + Athletics roll against an Ease Factor of 9, but otherwise they tumble all the way to the bottom and suffer +16 damage.''
''At the bottom of the ramp are three large caverns, which Perception + Awareness rolls against an Ease Factor of 9 will reveal to be mostly natural. The caverns are already partially submerged with about two feet of water, as a result of the slow rivulet that has been trickling in. This water is very cold, and characters should make additional Fatigue checks as they wade through it.''
''By the time the lead characters have made it down the ramp, Paulo will begin smashing the wall holding back the water, assuming he is with them and they have not taken steps to prevent what should be predictable behavior. Those who do not recognize the danger ahead of time will reach the bottom of the ramp just in time to hear Paulo’s yelling as his first swing hits the wall. They will then have to choose between fleeing back up the ramp to get above the flood, rushing blindly forward, or attempting to stop Paulo.''
''To either flee up the ramp past Paulo or race down to the relative safety of the far caverns requires a Quickness + Athletics Encumbrance roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Stopping Paulo is hardly an option at all, since once he has started swinging the characters will have, at most, one round before the rock cracks, and Paulo is probably not within their line of sight. Wizards will have to rush back half the distance and try to fast-cast a spell, and this requires at least a 12+ Initiative roll. Even then, the cracks will be widened a little because of his first blow, and it will be only a matter of time before they burst.''
''Characters caught in the deluge will be dashed against the stone floor and knocked down into the caverns below, taking +30 damage. If they make it into the near caverns before the wall bursts, they will only suffer +10 damage from battery as the water rushes''
''in. The caverns will fill almost completely with water, but characters who are able to stay afloat (ditching heavy armor) can eventually work their way out. Retrieving the spoils of the treasure vault at this point will be extremely difficult without powerful Rego magic and either the ability to breathe underwater or some way to drain the area fast enough to keep ahead of the flood.''

===Treasure Chamber===

''A great deal of treasure was stored in this room at one time, but almost all of it has rotted away under the still waters. Characters will feel the ground slide about beneath their feet as they wander about. If they start digging through the muck, they will find an assortment of ruined goods: pieces of furniture, metal rods, lengths of chain, carved chess pieces, tattered tapestries, rusted arms and armor, and more. Feel free to reward tenacity by slipping in exotic objects that might be useful in a lab or lead to other stories.''
''Three large chests sit spaced across the far wall, their lids clearing the surface of the water by about six inches. Massive locks still hold each of these chests shut, and the Ease Factor to pick them is 18 because of rust, though more forceful methods might be easier. Two of the chests hold a sizable fortune of silver coins, and the last once contained the covenant’s stores of vis, unfortunately depleted during the Sundering.''
''Whenever any of the chests are opened, a pair of magical hands — similar to those in the spell Hands of the Grasping Earth (ReMuTe15) — will emerge from the ground in front of the chest and grab the ankles of the closest person within five feet. They require a Strength roll against an Ease Factor of 12 to break free, though the water will cause them to deteriorate over time, reducing the Ease Factor by 3 each round. At the same time, two arms of a similar consistency emerge from the wall and begin to pummel the immobilized character with one-two punches (combat totals: Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +4, Damage +8). Each set has +25 Soak and no magic resistance, but hacking weapons do double damage against them. If not otherwise dealt with, they vanish at sunrise or sunset. Fortunately, the grasping hands will probably prevent unconscious characters from drowning, but unfortunately they are not easy to escape, especially while being punched in the face.''

===Corridor and Pitfalls===

''At the north side of the cavern is a corridor twenty feet long leading into the second cavern. In the middle of this corridor is a pit, the effect of which has been somewhat altered now that the area has been submerged in water. It is ten feet across and twenty feet deep, with spikes at the bottom, and an illusion of floor covering it.''
''Characters cannot see this illusion because of the water, and if they step into the pit, they will not sink quickly enough to damage themselves, though they could drown if they are wearing heavy armor. They will need to make Strength + Swim Burden rolls against an Ease Factor of 6 to make their way back to the surface.''
''When characters come within ten feet of the pit, have them make a Perception + Awareness roll. A large boulder with accompanying noise will appear behind them, as if it rolled in from somewhere in the other room, and any characters who did not botch their roll will see it coming towards them. This boulder is an illusion, intended to make intruders run towards the pit, but since it was not designed to account for water on the ground, something about it will look and sound odd to characters with a roll of 6 or better. Those with 12 or more on the roll, or anyone who stops to take a close look at it, will perceive exactly what is wrong with it and see through the illusion.''

===Granorda===

''Granorda loves mortal men and all of the decadent pleasures of life, even in death. Yet despite her specialty in necromancy and her hedonistic interests, she is generally an honest, open woman interested in justice and the survival of all that is pure and beautiful in the world. Underneath her brash exterior she is a caring, compassionate soul who is genuinely concerned for the well being of others.''
''Granorda needs to feel exonerated for her involvement in the Sundering. She allowed others (particularly Pitsdim) to commit violence that aided her goals, and kept silent about their crimes so long as they served her interests, partly because she disliked Ornath, and partly because she admired Crenvalus (even though she suspected he was responsible for the covenant’s troubles). She came to believe that Crenvalus was unworthy of ruling Calebais, but she did not see her own faults and decided that she was the only possible choice to replace him. He killed her with surprising ease after she attacked him in his sanctum, and she still fears him for this reason.''
''Now, Granorda is also obsessed with her death and her physical remains. She is intimately aware of the power magi have over the spirits and the flesh of the dead, and is frightened beyond reason that her corpse will be violated or destroyed. She cannot help it — she suspects everyone of coveting her remains, and of desiring to commit foul acts with them. She feels incredibly helpless in this regard and is desperate to protect herself. If the characters can somehow seal her grave, she will pass on as soon as she gives up her ties to Calebais. One way for characters to help her with this is to convince her that they would do great good with the Bell. If she believes them, and if they swear an oath not to disturb her corpse, she will give them her blessing''
''and thanks, and soon go to her eternal rest. However, even if she had been their “leader,” the other magi will certainly object to this, and they will fight twice as hard to prevent the characters from taking the Bell without their consent.''

===Crenvalus===

''Crenvalus has a distinct dislike of not being in control of a situation, and in life he took great pleasure in manipulating the actions of other people. It was his constant efforts to take charge of the covenant and his repeated squabbles with Ornath that precipitated the Sundering, and his ill-planned vengeance that made him finally realize he was also unfit to rule. Yet when he realized that death was not the end for him, he found he could not bear the thought of anyone else ruling Calebais, or else he decided he really wanted to continue after all, and acted to ensure that no one would ever disturb the covenant again.''
''Though he has many weaknesses, Crenvalus was basically a good man who tried hard to preserve the honor of the covenant and the Order of Hermes. Anger comes quickly to him, however, and he has never practiced much restraint. He is also half-mad; though it''
''may not be apparent at first, his extreme paranoia and xenophobia will eventually manifest with sudden and violent ferocity.''
''When the characters arrive, Crenvalus will decide that Larine betrayed them. During the events that follow, he may curse her, and this is vital to the story as it reveals the name of the nun who sent the characters his message. If you don’t think the players will get the hint, you can have Crenvalus begin to talk to Larine, as if she could actually hear him, or even become convinced that one of the characters is Larine. His last words might be something like, “Curse you, Larine! May you suffer forever if you have given them the key to our mighty Bell!” If this doesn’t make the characters curious enough to track her down, nothing will.''
''If asked about the skeleton in the portal, Crenvalus will try to remain calm and explain that there was an accident; a companion was helping him carry bodies of the fallen to a mass grave, he will say, and became trapped in the doorway. He could not help him because he was already dead by then. He will then quickly change the subject. If David has come with the characters, there will be no time for talk, as a battle will begin immediately once David sees him and begins using his command powers. If confronted and killed by his hand, both Crenvalus and David will be laid to rest, free to go to wherever their spirits ultimately belong.''

===Uderzus===

''Hot-tempered and cynical, when Uderzus first meets the characters, he will probably size them up and ask, “Well, what are you waiting for? Don’t you know how to loot a treasure trove?” He likes people who are able to accomplish things, and will scorn those who fail. He may indirectly warn the characters that they face more danger here than they think, but after that he will simply wait and watch to see how they deal with it.''
''If he happens to be the “leader” when the characters arrive, he will feel it is his duty to hinder the party. He will create illusions using both Imaginem and Mentem to misdirect the characters, laughing with glee when they fall for one of his tricks, and giving short, constructive praise when they see through them. If Uderzus is not in charge of things, he will watch from a safe distance, cheering on the characters, and enjoying the show. He will make liberal use of his lance in battle if the characters insist on attacking him, and will sow great confusion among their ranks with spells like Well Without Light.''
''Uderzus believes Calebais failed because nobody but him was able to do anything productive, and he died early on during a surprise attack on his sanctum. He still has questions about the Sundering, and will not rest until they have been answered to his satisfaction. Firstly, he does not know the details of David’s''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The ghosts of three of the magi may be found in this area, either gathered together in the Burial Chamber or moving throughout the caverns. They are each trying to seize control of Calebais from the others while watching over their once mighty covenant’s last great treasure, the Bell of Ibyn.''
''Try to emphasize their interactions as you play them. They have haunted these caverns for fifty years, and have had plenty of time to explore each other’s personalities and weaknesses. They know themselves far too well, and for the most part they hate each other. Each would like to put the blame for the Sundering on the others, and they periodically re-enact ghostly battles to achieve temporary dominance. On any given day, any one of the three may be nominally “in charge” of the covenant, though of course this distinction is childish and serves no purpose other than to feed that wizard’s ego. The other ghosts will reluctantly yield to their leader, but they will also undermine his or her authority at every opportunity.''

==The Ghosts==


|}
''death, but is suspicious of Crenvalus’s “accident.” Secondly, while he knows that Pitsdim caused the most damage to the covenant, he wonders why the other magi (especially Granorda and Crenvalus) did not settle their differences to deal with their common enemy. Finally, he believes that Crenvalus did something terrible to the covenant, some great and disastrous spell, but does not know what it was, because it happened after he and Granorda died and Crenvalus will not speak of it.''

===Burial Chamber===

''This chamber contains 22 different corpses hidden beneath the water, five of which are incomplete (only arms, heads, or the like). Characters wading into the room will invariably run''
''against the strangely well-preserved bodies, but they might not realize what they are at first, and are likely to be distracted by the three ghosts (Granorda, Crenvalus, and Uderzus) that they will probably encounter here.''
''When they first enter this cavern, they interrupt a discussion (or battle) between the magi to determine who will lead the covenant today. Regardless of the outcome, Crenvalus will eventually see the characters and begin speaking to them. Uderzus, too, will see them (probably before Crenvalus), but unless he is the leader he will remain silent. Crenvalus politely invites them into the chamber, stepping back to make room for them, and magnanimously introduces himself and his two sodales. Uderzus will make a rude comment or two about the characters, warning them through his demeanor that the situation is dangerous, but Crenvalus will soon regain control of the conversation. Granorda says nothing and tries to overcome her''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 45 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +3, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik -2 Age: 95 (40) Personality Traits: Megalomaniacal +4, Brash +3, Just +2, Kind +2 Combat: Dodge: Init -2, Attack +0, Defense -2, Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (1620) Abilities: Artes Liberales 3 (grammar), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Charm 5 (common folk), Concentration 5 (spells), Etiquette 2 (nobility), Finesse 2 (Corpus), Folk Ken 2 (men), Guile 2 (faking authority), Infernal Lore 3 (undead), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Local Language 5 (old dialects), Latin 5 (Hermetic), Leadership 2 (intimidation), Magic Theory 3 (spells), Medicine 3 (anatomy), Parma Magica 6 (Corpus), Penetration 3 (Corpus), Philosophiae 3 (natural), Teaching 3 (men) Arts: Cr 20, In 25, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 25, An 5, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 25, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 25, Te 8, Vi 5 Powers: Ghostly Body, 0 points, constant, Mentem: Granorda is aware she is a ghost, and can turn invisible, pass through walls, ignore physical attacks, and otherwise take advantage of her spirit form. Ghostly Magic, 1 or more points, -2, by spell: Granorda can make a spell she has cast affect the physical world by spending 1 point of temporary Might per magnitude of the effect.''
''Ghostly Vis, 1 or more points (special), -2, by spell: Granorda can permanently expend her Magic Might as vis, with each point equivalent to one pawn. Spells Known: Charm Against Putrefaction (CrCo10/+49) Incantation of the Body Made Whole (CrCo40, Ritual/+52) Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo15/+31) Awaken the Slumbering Dead (ReCo35/+51): Animates a Room of corpses (Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +2 Room). Enchantment of my Lover’s Eye (ReMe20/+51): Like Aura of Rightful Authority, except that the target acts as if he were in love (Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun). Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe20/+55) Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ReMe40, Ritual/+57) Vis: 9 Corpus in her physical remains Appearance: Long black hair and a disheveled, dirty black gown are the most prominent features of this well-built woman. She is attractive, but not by ordinary standards; it is her confidence and her mystery that turns heads. Although she walks about as if she were statuesque and queenly, her physical features are much more mundane. Roleplaying Tips: Be calm, never lose your cool, and until you have made up your mind, treat people with respect. Be interested in good-looking men. Speak with a slight lisp and practice dainty, careful mannerisms. Glance away often, as if worried about something, but refuse to explain if caught. Trust no one, for you have been betrayed before. If you decide that someone is vile and contemptible, you must get rid of that person as quickly as possible.''

==Granorda, Magister of Death==


|}
''natural anxiety about visitors, watching them closely to see that they don’t somehow trick her or make any sudden moves. She will be interested in them, because she wonders if with their help she would be able to break the stalemate that exists here. Crenvalus does his best to keep talking, and keep the characters talking, continuing conversation for as long as possible before making his move, since his only aims are to find out what they know and then see them dead.''
''The questions he asks are intended to stall the characters while subtly convincing Granorda that they are a threat and intend to''
''desecrate her grave. For instance, he might say something like “Naturally, you’ve come here to find valuable resources for your studies?” or “Tell me what you would do with the magic that remains in our covenant, if we allowed you to harvest it.” The players should be thinking of vis, while Granorda is thinking of her corpse. Uderzus watches this play carefully, but does not interfere. As he speaks, Crenvalus moves towards the characters, focusing on the one he believes to be the most dangerous. When the time is right, and Granorda has been worked into a state near terror, he suddenly shouts, “I see it all now — they want to''
''Magic Might: 52 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per -2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex -1, Qik +2 Age: 115 (40) Personality Traits: Megalomaniacal +5, Honorable +1, Trusting -3, Humble -3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack +2, Defense +5, Damage +1 Staff: Init +2, Attack +4, Defense +11, Damage +3 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (1620) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (logic), Awareness 5 (alertness), Brawl 3, Concentration 5 (spells), Finesse 6 (Corpus), Great Weapon 3 (staff), Guile 4 (manipulation), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Latin 6 (covenant usage), Leadership 6 (intimidation), Magic Theory 4 (spells), Parma Magica 8 (Mentem), Penetration 5 (Rego), Philosophiae 3 (moral), Spanish 5 (poetry), Theology 1 (Bible) Arts: Cr 5, In 7, Mu 5, Pe 12, Re 35, An 30, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 35, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 35, Te 30, Vi 5 Powers: Ghostly Body, 0 points, constant, Mentem: Crenvalus is aware he is a ghost, and can turn invisible, pass through walls, ignore physical attacks, and otherwise take advantage of his spirit form. Ghostly Magic, 1 or more points, +2, by spell: Crenvalus can make a spell he has cast affect the physical world by spending 1 point of temporary Might per magnitude of the effect. Possession, 3 points, +2, Mentem: Crenvalus can take over a living body as if it were his own. Each round, the victim may make an Intellegence roll to resist, adding an appropriate Personality trait (e.g. Rebellious). On a 12+, Crenvalus is driven out. On a 9+, the two wills are in conflict and neither may act. Otherwise, Crenvalus may use the body as he wishes, including casting his spells in the physical realm.''
''Spells Known: Tossing the Brawling Brute (ReCo10/+70): Throws a person 15 feet in the air or 25 feet in any direction, causing falling damage if a solid object intervenes (Base 4, +2 Voice). Topple the Brutish Band (ReCo20/+70): As Tossing the Brawling Brute, but affects a Group (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Group). Strings of the Unwilling Marionette (ReCo25/+70) Confusion of the Numbed Will (ReMe15/+70) Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe20/+70) Enslave the Mortal Mind (ReMe40/+70) Earth Shock (ReTe30/+65) The Earth Split Asunder (ReTe30/+65) Pitsdim’s Downfall (ReTe50/+70): Shakes and collapses the ceiling of an entire level of caves to which you have an arcane connection, causing damage to other levels as well (Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Diam, +1 Part, +5 size). Vis: 10 Rego in his ghostly staff, if killed by David Appearance: Crenvalus is a long, lanky, sinewy apparition with dark, bronzed skin and thick, heavy eyebrows. His white hair cascades across his head like a lion’s mane, but his eyes are narrow and suspicious, and his smile should seem tense, like a trap ready to spring. He wears simple, well-made robes that are neither humble nor kingly, and carries a plain wooden staff. Roleplaying Tips: Ensure that every other thing you say is an order of some kind, though not necessarily malicious or pompous (“Get me a chair; my feet grow weary.”) React poorly to those who don’t show you proper respect, and reject anything that sounds like a command. Give your eyes a haunted look, and stop moving them only when you speak, but take care never to look at a player directly, staring instead at a point directly behind them. You are crazier than you seem; let that slip occasionally. Start to lose it if questioned about David and the magical portal. When you can’t take it any more, start screaming (and actually scream, to shock the players), “I should be in charge! I was the last! I survived! I was the best!” Slowly regain your composure, and then begin again.''

==Crenvalus, Magister of Control==

''defile your corpse with unspeakable acts and hideous experiments! Quickly, Granorda, wake the dead, wake the dead before it’s too late!”''
''If the characters have been courteous and respectful, and if some of them are very handsome or have Virtues like Venus’s Blessing, Granorda might hesitate long enough for the characters to interject and convince her that they seek no such thing. If they have been threatening, have Flaws that detract from their appearance''
''or are simply not very attractive, or if you and the players just want to play a climactic fight, battle ensues.''
''Crenvalus will attempt to possess the senior wizard of the group, his spirit rushing through the (hopefully) open mouth. If that fails, he will try to take over other wizards on subsequent rounds. If he succeeds, each round that character fails to regain control he will use his new body to cast spells, using up the character’s Fatigue lev''
''Magic Might: 49 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre +3, Com -3, Str +2, Sta +1, Dex -1, Qik -2 Age: 94 (50) Personality Traits: Megalomaniacal +2, Patient -2, Straightforward -2, Tolerant -3 Combat: Lance: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +4, Damage +9 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 1 (astronomy), Awareness 9 (searching), Concentration 3 (reading), Finesse 4 (Mentem), Folk Ken 3 (magi), German 5 (understanding), Great Weapon 4 (lance), Latin 5 (reading), Magic Sensitivity 3, Magic Theory 3 (enchantment), Parma Magica 7 (Corpus), Penetration 3 (Intellego), Second Sight 5, Sense Holiness and Unholiness 4 Arts: Cr 25, In 30, Mu 15, Pe 15, Re 15, An 5, Aq 15, Au 15, Co 25, He 5, Ig 15, Im 25, Me 25, Te 15, Vi 25 Powers: Ghostly Body, 0 points, constant, Mentem: Uderzus is aware he is a ghost, and can turn invisible, pass through walls, ignore physical attacks, and otherwise take advantage of his spirit form. Ghostly Certamen, 0 points, special, special: Uderzus can participate in certamen with living magi, and can also initiate certamen against other ghosts. The phantasms are real to them, and attack and defend as normal, but instead of causing Fatigue, Weakening Totals affect ghostly opponents’ Might Pool. Ghostly Magic, 1 or more points, -2, by spell: Uderzus can make a spell he has cast affect the physical world by spending 1 point of temporary Might per magnitude of the effect. Uderzus also carries the spiritual counterpart of his Sundered Lance, once a holy item, which retains two divine powers, both of which have penetration 30: Pierce the Mail of Falsehood, PeVi20: The lance reduces the casting total of any non-ritual Creo or Rego magic at which it points by 20 spell levels.''
''The Trembling Lordling, CrMe30: Characters with noble blood at whom the lance is leveled experience a glimpse of terror so frightening that they are afraid of it for the rest of their lives. The source of the terror is different for each character, i.e. one person might see a mouse while another experiences extreme claustrophobia, and this power can only ever be used against each character once. Spells Known: Uderzus also knows many Intellego Imaginem and Intellego Mentem spells, but they do not function in Calebais as long as the Veil is active. Eyes of the Bat (InAu25/+46) Vision of Heat’s Light (InIg20/+46) Well Without Light (PeIg25/+30) Sight of the Active Magics (InVi40/+56) Wind of Mundane Silence (PeVi40/+41) Wizard’s Sigil: Uderzus is evidenced by tiny cracks in his spells, like flaking paint. This shows through in his powers, above; for example, the darkness in his Well Without Light fractures in places, allowing threads of light (but not enough to see anything) to show through, and his illusions might have subtle but telltale cracks. Vis: 9 Vim left in his ghostly lance, if his questions are satisfactorily answered Appearance: Uderzus is short and squat; he is missing his left hand and has difficulty standing up straight. His ghostly image is very solid and quite realistic. He has flame-red hair in patches, but other parts are white and gray. His burlap tunic is scorched and ripped, and he leans against his seven foot lance, the last foot of which has broken and splintered at the end. Roleplaying Tips: Purse not only your lips but your whole face. Laugh happily when others fail, but give grudging admiration when they succeed. Practice grimaces in the mirror and perfect a series of taunts. Don’t forget to have trouble positioning the lance you always have with you, and remember that you are stronger than you appear. When faced with characters casting Creo or Rego spells at you, aggressively swing the lance to point at them and haughtily stop them in their tracks.''

==Uderzus, Magister of Perception==

''els instead of his Might. Once the character is nearly unconscious, he will use the body destructively, making it leap against other characters, dive underwater, or hit itself.''
''Granorda, meanwhile, raises the water-logged corpses from the water (this does not include her own, which is encased in a coffin at the back of the room or in another part of the burial chambers). Suddenly, all around the characters, partially decomposed bodies will rise from the black, icy waters, moaning and spreading their withered arms menacingly. These corpses are soft and pulpy, not tough like corpses buried in the ground, so they are not very powerful. Still, it will be a deadly fight. Consider:''
''I. The corpses, 17 full and 5 partial, rise from all around the party, ahead and behind, assuming the characters have come to the center of the room. They will probably be outnumbered. The first round, just have one corpse attack each character, but after that they should start ganging up. II. Various independent body parts (including those caused by the fight) move through the water, grasping, biting or kicking the characters’ legs. This attack is mostly ineffectual, but it can be very creepy and demoralizing. III. This section of the ruins is not magically lit, so the party may be depending upon torches or lanterns to see, which will go out if dropped into the water or the bearer is pulled down. IV. Characters should suffer a -3 on Attack and Defense rolls, due to the poor fighting conditions. These circumstances include at least three extra botch dice for any 0s rolled, taking into account fighting in water, the cold temperature, bad air, limited visibility, and the partial body parts that may trip or pull characters down. Botches probably mean that the character loses his footing and is pulled down. V. Unconscious or Incapacitated characters are likely to drown if they are not rescued immediately, as they will fall underwater, and the corpses will try to hold them down. VI. Crenvalus will continue to try and possess magi, keeping them off-balance and using his powers whenever he has a firm hold.''
''If the players are doing badly, Granorda might end her spell, intending to speak sharply to the characters after properly chastising them. Uderzus might also intervene, driving Crenvalus back with his lance and casting Wind of Mundane Silence, berating the characters for allowing things to reach this point. If he is overpowered, Crenvalus will go completely mad, and charge out of the room shouting “Larine has brought our doom; let us bury this covenant and our pitiful dead forever!” He will race out of the vaults, intending to make his way to the surface and shake the entire covenant to pieces, but he will settle for the tunnel. If the characters don’t stop him, he will cause another earthquake that could collapse the treasure chambers, and will certainly release the deluge described above.''

===Bell Chamber===

''The third chamber, assuming the caverns haven’t been destroyed or flooded, is filled with three feet of water. In the center is the Bell of Ibyn, the legendary device described in Crenvalus’s letter, which provided a magical warning system for the covenant of Calebais worthy of the wizards who founded it. There is also a small chest beside the Bell, completely submerged, in which may be found three more diadems (see page 78).''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Magic Might: 0 (Corpus) Characteristics: Str +3, Sta -3, Dex -3, Qik -3 Combat: Punch and Grapple: Init -3, Attack -3, Defense -3, Damage +3 Soak: -3 Wound Penalties: -0 (1-5), -0 (6-10), -0 (11-15), Splattered (16-20) (yes, “splattered”) Appearance: Each of these creatures is a bloated corpse, remarkably well-preserved, animated but mindless. What little clothing or few possessions they carried are tattered and decayed. Note: The corpses can only fight as untrained groups. These corpses are mindless, and do not fear anything; they cannot be affected by Mentem spells of any kind. They cannot really see or hear either, but simply have a magical sense of where the characters are. They ignore wound penalties and have no fatigue. If their bodies are searched afterward, there might be trinkets or other small objects of value on them, but this sort of looting will frighten Granorda into casting more spells to protect herself.''

==Corpses==


|}
''Getting the Bell out of the chamber and up the well to the outside world is a monumental task, and if you have time you should roleplay through the activity, as it is a relaxing opportunity to develop characters and visualize the extraordinary situations in which they participate. If you need to wrap up the session quickly, however, simply call for a general roll from every character to see how they do, and briefly describe their journey back. The players have already proven their worth by getting hold of the Bell in the first place, so it can be assumed that such competent characters can find a way to haul it home.''
''Once other magi learn that the characters have retrieved the Bell, their covenant may have many visitors who wish to see it or study it. Though it would probably be improper and seen as unreasonably greedy to ask for something in return for merely allowing a magus to look at it, asking for a minor sum of vis in exchange for a season of studying it is quite acceptable. If they actively spread word of their find, the characters and their covenant may receive Hermetic status and positive reputations among others in the Order.''

==Options: The Ruins==

''I. The characters might be able to convene a meeting of the council of Calebais, using Ferdina’s ghostly chime or by''
''personally coaxing the spirits to gather. There are seven council members, which according to their charter is enough to vote on covenant business, and Ferdina can act as council head to introduce issues: hearing proposals, inviting magi to join, giving away their treasure, ending hostilities, or even disbanding the covenant. It is unlikely that the ghosts will remain for long unless magically coerced, but it is possible that the characters could convince them to vote on one or two issues before everything breaks apart. II. The Hrools may be searching for a new god to lead them now that their old god has grown weak and lost most of her powers. Perhaps some of the Hrools have heard stories about Christianity and ask the characters to help them convert. If the characters use magic, the ermines may prostrate themselves and call out to the almighty characters for mercy, and some members of the tribe might gather their things and follow the characters when they leave Calebais, whether they are invited or not. III. Perhaps Crenvalus is demon-plagued, and has been for a long time. In order to gain the power and dominance that he desired, he made a pact with this creature that lasted beyond his death, and it has gradually taken command of his will. This explains the dual nature of his personality more directly. If Crenvalus is laid to rest, the demon will crawl out of his heart and fly away, after making a short speech (“Pedifilers, mortifilers, villifiers, you! Curse your rapturements for murdering my useful worm! Expect my return, right soon, with flames to burn your pitiful fleshy skins!”).''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The diadems are the C-shaped crowns made of gold wire, each with a green gemstone shaped like an eye worn at the forehead. The back of a diadem is open, and it naturally clasps any normal-sized head. They have specific powers of their own, but since they are mystically connected to the Bell, their powers are few until the Bell is mended. There were twenty-four of them in all, but many of them have been lost. Luckily, characters only need one, though the Bell will be more useful if they recover more.''
''I. Those who wear a diadem can see through any illusion cast by Mormulus, including all illusions in the story except those creat''
''ed by Uderzus. This allows them to walk through the Veil without having to answer the riddle and perceive  Mormulus’s lab as it really is. (InIm30) II. A diadem is a mark of authority in the covenant, and those who wear one may command the dryad to change the riddle, refuse entry to Calebais, or temporarily give up the Veil for a day and a night. The wearer falls into a deep sleep and takes control of the Veil in the meantime. III. If characters are foolish enough to wear a diadem all the time, they will quickly gain Warping points for being under a constant mystical effect, producing a Major Personality Flaw:''

==The Diadems==


|}
''One of the more well-known magical artifacts in the Order of Hermes is the Bell of Ibyn. This is not so much because of its power (though it is formidable) or because of its strange origins, but rather because of the pride the magi of Calebais had in it. Older magi or students of Order of Hermes Lore will remember how magi of Calebais were known for boasting that their covenant was immune to attack because of their precious Bell. The characters will probably know of these stories and be eager to begin using their treasure. However, they will soon find that it is more difficult to use than they might think. In fact, it will have little effect at all until they can discover the key to unlock its powers.''
''The Bell is partially submerged, but has not been tarnished at all. It does not look like a normal church bell, oval with a round bottom and a round knocker inside; instead, it has two convex sides that meet at either of its edges, and a flat top with a massive bracket that was at one time attached with ropes to the rotted wood frame. It is three feet wide and five feet tall, and weighs nearly 600 pounds. Viewed from the bottom, it looks like an eye, though without a clapper or pupil. The sides of the Bell are inscribed with strange, non-Hermetic runes. There is also a series of twelve knobs on each side, each knob a round projection about two inches long and an inch thick, marked with a different strange and unfamiliar symbol. The knobs on the front protrude outward, while those on the back are rounded into the interior of the Bell.''
''The Bell has no readily discernible powers, except that it is certainly magical if tested with Intellego Vim. Only by playing about with it while wearing one of the diadems can the magi get a glimpse of its power. Approximate levels are provided in case the characters investigate it in a magical laboratory, but since it is unusual magic, not entirely conforming to Hermetic Theory, it may not work as the players expect, and the effect levels may not correspond to those of other Hermetic devices. The powers they might discover are:''
''I. Whenever the Bell rings, such as when someone strikes it with something, it will toll with a horrible, flat sound that will slowly die after five minutes of ringing. This sound is not so loud as to harm those standing nearby, yet can be easily heard throughout the entire covenant. (ReIm15)''
''II. Any time a human dies within the boundary that surrounds the covenant, the Bell will ring from one to six times, depending on the victim’s power and importance in the covenant. If any of the characters die during the story, even in the forest that surrounds Calebais, the Bell will ring, but with a horribly flat sound. (InCo20)''
''III. When a person wearing a diadem touches the Bell and says “Corona fracta est” (coh-ROH-nah FROCK-tah EST, “The crown is broken”), they will be able to see all the surrounding area of the covenant from the perspective of any creature or person within that radius. They have no control over the subject, and it will not know it has been possessed. This effect works even at Calebais, despite Mormulus’s Veil, as the Veil was designed to exclude the Bell from its effects. (InAnMe25)''
''If the characters devote time to magical study of the Bell, they may learn of the following properties, in addition to those described above:''
''Level 10: To use any of the powers of the Bell, you must wear a diadem.''
''Level 30: The Bell is damaged, and many of its powers are not accessible.''
''Level 40: The Bell uses strange, non-Hermetic magic, which has been intertwined with effects designed by magi from the Order of Hermes. Its unusual origin makes it difficult to identify its powers as long as it is broken.''
''Level 55: The Bell is out of tune, and must be adjusted in order to function properly. This involves filing down the knobs, but as some of them are already worn, this is dangerous without sure knowledge of how to go about it.''
''Level 80: The knobs are tuned to resonate with the personalities of those who wear the diadems, and there must be at least twelve different people involved to create the proper sound.''
''Once the characters realize that there is important information they lack in order to understand how to use the Bell, they will probably question the ghosts that remain, but none of them know or remember the details of the ritual, since it was Ornath who traditionally led the ceremony. Laboratory investigation may yield some of the information they seek, but all of the effects are of such high magnitude that it is doubtful they will be able to learn more than a general idea that it is magical and has very powerful effects. Eventually, however, one of the characters should remember Sister Larine and Crenvalus’s cryptic curses about her giving the magi the key, and resolve to track her down to see if she can provide the information they need.''

==The Bell of Ibyn==

===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
