''The Broken Covenant of Calebais is a mystery story more than anything else. It is a story with tragedy, pathos, and much that will be unexplainable at first. The object of this story is for the characters to explain that which they do not understand — to solve the mystery.''
''Fifty years ago, the covenant of Calebais was destroyed and no one has yet discovered how or why. Now, with your help, the broken covenant will finally be explored, and the truth of how such a powerful and well-defended covenant could possibly fall will be revealed. The central mystery of this story is the big question of why — what mad force brought about the downfall of beautiful Calebais, and where is it dwelling now?''
''Finding the truth behind that mystery is the primary purpose of this story. It does have another purpose, however. The story you are about to read is about a dungeon — a dank, old, smelly, ruined series of caves with enough mystery and adventure to spare. If you have a lot of experience with fantasy roleplaying games, you may be tired of dungeons: bored with the senseless encounters, the lack of realism, and the perpetual rehashing of old ideas. But this is a dungeon done differently. This is a dungeon done right. The Broken Covenant of Calebais goes to the roots of roleplaying, to the very first “dungeons” ever explored, to the early days of fantasy stories, redone with realism, romance, mystery and magic in mind.''
''If you do not plan to storyguide this story, be warned. You will truly enjoy it more if you do not read any further. Just gently close the cover, and pass this book along to a person who will guide you through this incredible tale. Do yourself this small favor; it’s well worth it.''

=A New Revision=

''This revised edition of The Broken Covenant of Calebais is the third version of the adventure to be published for Ars Magica. Calebais''
''was the first adventure ever published for the game, back in the days of First Edition, and it was revised and expanded for Second Edition. Now, for Fifth Edition, it has been revised and expanded once more. Although the plot, setting, and atmosphere remain the same, the text has been almost completely rewritten to integrate this classic adventure more firmly into the Fifth Edition version of Ars Magica.''
''This version of the story of the broken covenant consists of three chapters, each of which tells a different part of the story. In chapter one, the characters will unearth the mystery of Calebais and the region that surrounds it, and learn much about its history, people, and the legends that are all that remain. Chapter two contains the covenant itself, a floor by floor description of what has become of the once-grand palace for wizards and those who served them. The final chapter concludes the story by leading the characters to a convent where they can gain more information about the treasures they have inherited, including the secret of the legendary Bell of Ibyn.''
''While the events of these chapters are based around a framework for a story, they do not outline that story from beginning to end. Instead, they describe the places, people, and events associated with Calebais. This is a dynamic setting that should interact with the characters, and change depending on their actions. The inhabitants are independent, and act on their own initiative, as well as in response to what the characters do. If the characters choose not to enter an area, the inhabitants might instead come to them.''
''For this reason, you will need to be familiar enough with the elements that make up the story to be able to invent things as you go along. It requires a bit of extra preparation on your part, but in return you will have a better story and your troupe will have a better experience. Make sure you read each chapter thoroughly before playing it, so that you will understand all the subtleties of what is going on and can feel free to change things or make up new elements as you think appropriate.''

==Introduction The Covenant of Calebais==

''The rewards of this story are great, and so the challenges are significant. Nothing about Calebais should be simple, though it does not need to be frustrating. When in doubt, go easy on the characters. Even if they generally have the advantage, botches on important rolls can lead to crippling injuries and even a dead character or two. Make sure they come prepared with “cannon fodder” — characters they can afford to lose if things go wrong — because many of the encounters are more dramatic when they are deadly.''
''The group might initially want to make a scouting mission, just to see what is in the ruins, and then use this information to return to their covenant and bring back the right tools for the job: specialized characters, new spells, better equipment. You should encourage this kind of thinking, for it is much more realistic, and will make the story more rewarding. The more familiar they become with the covenant, the more likely they are to figure out its secrets, which is the best result of all.''
''At the end of each chapter, several options are presented for taking the story in different directions. Consider these ideas and your own before running the adventure. Perhaps one of the players’ choices will make one of the options especially attractive. Don’t let your preconceptions hinder you — be ready to change your mind about the encounters as you go, to produce an exciting and fulfilling story that still makes sense.''
''Don’t expect to be done with this supplement in just one play session, either. Five sessions is normal, and it can easily be stretched even further if the characters are very thorough. Also, the last chapter takes place long after the first two have been completed, and yet is still part of the story; you can mix in other adventures and then come back to it. The supplement works particularly well if you can introduce the story into a setting that you have already developed, so that you can both foreshadow it and refer back to it. You can even build an entire saga around the adventure, if you wish.''

=The Setting=

''In Ars Magica, there are some aspects of the published setting that are kept deliberately vague, so that it is easy to integrate them into your game. This story is no exception; the broken covenant does not exist in any specific place in Mythic Europe, but it can exist anywhere that you would like to place it. It is important to the story that Calebais has a history in the area, and possesses the regional flavor that matches its surroundings, so it is up to you to weave it into your saga.''
''There is no way for this adventure to predict how your covenant will be designed, or where the characters will be coming from. You must fill in these details to make this story succeed. To help you adapt the adventure to a suitable location, there follow three examples of what the area surrounding Calebais might look like in three different parts of Europe. If they are convenient enough to your saga, you can use them as they are, or they can serve as templates for you to base the design of other medieval locales.''
''Each setting describes three places, for use in each of the three different chapters of the story. The first is a small village with an abbey and a nearby forest. The second is deep within that forest, home to faeries and long-dead wizards. The third describes a Cistercian nunnery, the significance of which will not be revealed until much later in the adventure.''
''Note that none of these potential settings actually existed in the medieval world, though they are obviously inspired by history. They are portraits painted with a broad brush, intended to convey the tone and feeling of the area without perfectly depicting reality. Thus, you may personalize them without fear, changing any part of the image to conform more or less to your vision, and altering the impression they give to match the colors of your saga.''

==Stonehenge==

''The village of Byneden is situated on the southern coast of Dorset, near the almost perfectly-rounded cove of Lulworth. It is a small group of perhaps twenty families, clustered about a well-established Cistercian abbey that was built in 1149. Behind it, to the north, rise large round hills. Byneden Hill, the largest, is said to be haunted by the ghosts of Roman legions who landed here in ancient times and fell to their deaths, and the path by which the characters must arrive passes between it and a range of several lesser hills to the east, unless they travel by boat and sail into the cove.''
''Byneden range is thickly forested, and by skirting Byneden Hill and walking along the coast for about an hour, the characters will see in''
''the distance the higher ground from which Two Crag Hill may be reached. The view into the English Channel from the jagged chalk and limestone cliffs is blue and fair in summer and grey and misty in the winter, but a persistent fog covers the woodlands as characters begin to make their way to the site of the fallen covenant.''
''In contrast, the Abbey of St. Mary is found in the small village of Crawford, about twenty miles inland from Byneden, north and east. It was constructed near the joining of two rivers, the Tarrant and the Stour. The convent is quite wealthy, established during King Richard’s reign, and built of thick stone, with the familiar tall square tower above the church. It is one of the few Cistercian convents in southern England, so it is somewhat isolated but still has a lot of autonomy.''

==Provence==

''On the Gothic March west of the Rhone River, just north of the Pyrenees and near the border of Burgundy, lies the small village of Bonnedon. It may be found on a temperate plateau about two days’ walk from Toulouse, among rolling hills covered with vineyards and valleys swathed in wheat. To the northeast is a wooded area thick with brambles and brush under the twisting, dry trees; at one time the whole village looked very similar, but the Cistercian monks of the abbey have cultivated the land and brought about a near-miraculous change.''
''The wood has a dry, dusty smell, even in colder months, and quite strangely grows more lush as the characters travel further from the river. The trees are dense and knot together overhead, with their tangled roots sprawled about the earthy wilderness, forcing the characters to climb over and under such wooden barricades as they travel north towards Two Crag Hill.''
''When the time comes to visit the nuns, the characters will find the Abbey of St. Douceline in the civilized valleys further west, closer to Montauban, near the Dalinnae River. Though established in the heart of the Cistercian Order, the convent is much smaller than one might expect, considering its influence, and the nuns must work hard each year to coerce the brittle ground to meet their needs, since their charter only barely provides them with enough to make their living.''

==The Rhine==

''Maulbronn Abbey is located about forty miles west of Stuttgart, in the village of Baden on the northern edge of the Black Forest. It is an impressive structure, with thick, fortified stone walls to separate the monks from the harsh world outside, and finely''
''crafted sloped roofs of brown-red rock. The buildings are closeset, conveying a sense of huddled safety within, and while most of the building is only two stories high, it seems extremely tall and narrow.''
''The land is rugged and wild, mountainous with forbidding peaks and thick woods that encroach upon the dark Salzach valley. By striking out southwest, the characters may follow a series of steep descending trails into the forest, taking care not to lose their step in the hostile, rocky terrain. Two Crag Hill is to the north from the base of the great peak that supports Baden, and all around is the dense, old forest that blocks out the light and dampens sound.''
''Far to the west, beyond the borders of Swabia, is the convent of Aywieres in Brabant, a great distance from Calebais. It is small and humble, though it will become quite famous as a home to Cistercian saints during the thirteenth century, when word of the holy sisters’ visions spreads throughout the Lower Loraine. It is a land of rolling hills and sparse woodland, and the nuns here have a much easier time than the monks at the abbey of Maulbronn.''

==Other Locales==

''As long as the characters are located somewhere in Mythic Europe, this story can still fit into the setting without much effort. Monasteries and nunneries may be found almost anywhere, and the Cistercian Rule had become very popular in the early 1200s; many existing abbeys adopted its rigid structure, even as far away as Portugal, Ireland, and Constantinople. The severe, strict piety of the White Monks helps create an interesting contrast with the proud, divisive magi, but if you cannot justify their presence in your setting, Benedictines are found in every corner of the world and are still an acceptable substitute.''

=The Story=

''In order to give you an idea of what to expect, there follows a summary of the events of The Broken Covenant of Calebais as they might occur in your game. Of course, this may not be how it happens in your group, whether because you change things about it or because the players make new and interesting choices that this version does not anticipate. In short, the story can happen many different ways, and there is no one best route through this adventure.''

==History==

''Long ago, perhaps two hundred years or more, a group of Hermetic magi constructed an inverted tower, tunneling down into Two Crag Hill. It was essentially a deep well with rooms carved into the sides, providing the magi with water and shelter and safety from prying eyes. In their early years they united together to aid rebels against the king, and thus took the symbol of a broken crown. These activities brought great disfavor from the tribunal, who conducted a thorough investigation and punished many of the wizards for their interference in mundane affairs. After that followed a period of inactivity as the magi withdrew into seclusion, and each of them began to fear that others, outside or working within, would try to take over their covenant. By design they lacked any central authority to regulate their activities, and the magi of Calebais soon became estranged from each other.''
''Over the years, personal conflicts between the members grew and flared up, but none of the magi felt confident enough to attack the others directly. To outsiders, it appeared as if nothing was wrong in Calebais: it prospered, was well-defended, had many great magical devices, and possessed a large and diverse library. Without trust or an impartial judge to work out their differences, however, the bitter grudges of the magi grew heavier and heavier and the cancer at the heart of the covenant spread and grew ever larger.''
''Finally, in about 1170, the situation finally exploded into violence, unintentionally catalysed by one of the wizards’ great achievements. Mormulus, a master of illusions, wanted to protect himself from the prying eyes and ceaseless spying that he imagined to occur throughout the covenant. He devoted his studies to magic that could stop what he saw as the essential problem and his final creation was a magical device that effectively prevented all such spells. No magi would ever be able to peer into his or the covenant’s affairs ever again.''
''Soon after, the Quaesitor Ornath left, unable to tolerate the wizards’ infighting any further. In his absence, Mormulus’s enchantment increased the wizards’ paranoia, and they inexplicably concluded that they were free from the threat of retribution from the Order. As long as they allowed no outsiders into their covenant, they could aid rebels, punish their enemies, and even secretly attack each other, safe in the belief that no one would ever be able to ascertain who was to blame for what. This idea threw the unstable covenant into terrifying anarchy.''
''Chaos broke out in what has come to be called the Sundering by the former inhabitants. Wizards, their familiars, their apprentices, and the grogs, all of whom had conflicting loyalties, openly fought in the halls of the covenant. In the process, they killed''
''almost everyone and destroyed most of the covenant’s possessions. The rooms and tunnels were severely damaged; little remains of what was once a place of culture and great beauty.''
''In terms of sheer destruction, the wizard Pitsdim was unequaled in his ability to lay waste to everything in his path, and many of the ghosts still blame him for the result. Crenvalus, too, destroyed more than his share of the covenant in a great rage, summoning an earthquake that buried Pitsdim under several feet of rock, but also caused great damage and flooded the lower levels, drowning or crushing the few living souls who remained.''
''From those who fled at the outset, other magi of the Order gathered that some great evil had befallen the covenant. A group of three Quaesitores went to investigate the site, to determine what had happened and report to the tribunal. One of these magi was Ornath, the only wizard from Calebais to have escaped. They found that little remained of proud Calebais, and that the ruins were already haunted by ghosts of the bitter dead. Because Ornath’s anger over the destruction was immense, he wanted these spirits to suffer perpetually for their terrible acts. He realized that explorers might be persuaded by the dead to help lay them to rest, so after cursory examination, he convinced the others that the place was cursed by devils and should not be disturbed.''
''Since that time, no one has ever seen inside the covenant, both because the spells that they would use to examine a potentially dangerous place from a distance do not function, and because they fear traffic with demons. To this day, however, many magi in the Order are intensely concerned over what happened at Calebais, a covenant that should have been too powerful to destroy, but none have been able to penetrate Mormulus’s Veil of secrecy. The ruins have thus been left entirely undisturbed.''

==The Adventure==

''After years of silence, a messenger of the Order of Hermes brings a strange document to the characters’ covenant. This old, tattered letter outlines some of what happened at Calebais and tells of a bell of great magical power still hidden in the depths. The message was given to the Redcap by a nun who had once been a valuable member of Calebais, but who asked that her name and location be kept secret. She believes that the Order is in danger, that the ruins of Calebais will soon be uncovered, and asks that the characters use their powers and wisdom to convince the mortals to leave the place undisturbed, while helping themselves to what treasures still remain.''
''Their expedition reaches the nearby village, which is locked in silent conflict. A man has died from evil wounds, and his daughter is missing, perhaps abducted or killed. The only survivor of''
''the attack can remember almost nothing, and there are reports of strange devil-folk in the woods. The abbot of the monastery believes that these rumors are baseless, and wishes the whole clamor quieted; the reeve has petitioned the nobility for a force of men with which to search the woods.''
''In the forest, the characters come upon a group of satyrs, who have captured the young woman and intend to keep her. The nature of the forest makes it impossible for her to leave, but the characters may learn that a dryad lives elsewhere in the woods, and that the satyrs would prefer her to their captive. The dryad is bound by a bargain she made with Calebais, and the characters must solve the mystery of its destruction if they wish to free her.''
''At the base of the hill, the characters meet a knight-errant, Sir Gilbert. He intends to slay the dragon that is said to inhabit the ruins, and may help them break through the illusion that prevents them from approaching the covenant. This puzzle involves following each of twelve magical guides in the proper order, and then guessing the answer to their riddle. If the characters succeed, the dryad will lead them to the covenant’s entrance.''
''Calebais is a great well, nine stories deep (and at one time even more), with chambers and balconies built off the central feature. Within, they discover many ghosts of the former inhabitants, and a ferret-like race of intelligent animals known as the Hrools. They may also explore many magical laboratories that have been left more or less intact above the flooded areas. Eventually they will discover the hidden treasure vaults, and by avoiding several traps and dealing with three ghosts who guard them, they may retrieve the legendary Bell of Ibyn.''
''Bearing their prize back to their covenant, the characters will find that the Bell is faulty, and cannot be repaired without understanding of its secrets. If the Redcap can be convinced to cooperate, she will take the characters to meet the nun who sent them the letter, perhaps to shed light on the problem. The story takes on a whole new tone after they travel to the convent, and learn that their benefactor has died in the meantime. They are given an opportunity to prove their virtue, after which they receive a message she wrote just before she died, finally providing them with the key to unlock the powers of the Bell of Ibyn.''
''The story also contains many loose ends that the characters may choose to tie up afterwards: rescuing the satyrs’ captive, freeing the restless dead from their torment, determining the future of the Hrools, and even exploring submerged levels of the covenant. The story of Calebais should thus inspire many exciting subsequent adventures for you and your Ars Magica troupe.''

[|

==Characters==

''Here are some notes about the characters in this adventure, briefly summarized with a page reference to help you remember their roles, explain their relationships to each other, and locate them quickly. Refer back to this list whenever you need to find information about a character in the story.''
''CHAPTER ONE 11 Ash, Redcap Respects magi and the Order, dislikes being taken for granted 16 young woman Father killed, lover injured, pregnant, held by faerie curse 16 murdered man Killed by satyrs in the forest while protecting daughter 16 young man Injured protecting lover, resting at abbey, lost memory, heard the Bell 16 Father Eric, abbot Angry with the reeve for stirring up the village, assumes girl fled 16 Stephen, reeve Investigating murder and abduction, believes great evil in forest, dislikes the abbot 21 Sir Gilbert Friendly knight-errant, seeks dragon, knows four of the guides 21 Luc, adviser Distrusts characters, protects Sir Gilbert 22 Paul, squire Enthusiastic and awkward, serves Sir Gilbert and Luc 18 Boch, satyr Speaks for the satyrs, misses the dryad, explains the abduction and the faerie curse 29 dryad Controls the Veil, lonely, can only leave the fountain in spirit unless freed''
''CHAPTER TWO 42 Dargaud, ghost UnGifted Redcap, sneaky, throws rocks, freed when he understands what happened 40 Ornath, magus Quaesitor, disliked Crenvalus, left the covenant, headed its investigation 44 Paulo, ghost Crenvalus’s muddled shield grog, war hammer, freed by protecting Calebais 47 Josephine, ghost Grog, thief, grieving, freed by rescuing her son Gemaric 48 David, ghost Captain; practical; magic armor, sword, shield; freed by killing Crenvalus 51 Gemaric Transformed child, now an intelligent rock, has little legs, flees 52 Igack, fire drake Pitsdim’s familiar, breathes fire, has a diadem 54 Ferdina, ghost Former autocrat, gentle, burned, chime, freed by respect from magi 58 Mormulus, ghost Merinita illusionist, lost in dream world, freed by remorse 61 Ierimyra, ghost Bjornaer, mother of the Hrools, scholarly, freed by her children’s safety 66 Pitsdim, ghost Ignem Flambeau, insane, freed by burning to death 80 Larine, nun Librarian, David’s lover, fled Calebais to nunnery with Crenvalus’s letter 69 Althea, ghost Lab assistant, freed by satiating her hunger 74 Granorda, ghost Necromancer, paranoid, freed by making her corpse safe 75 Crenvalus, ghost Rego master, crafty, killed David, fears Larine and his letter 76 Uderzus, ghost Tests the characters, magical lance, freed by answers to his questions''
''CHAPTER THREE 82 Hedwig, abbess Authoritative, dignified, has a letter from Sister Larine 83 Palona, advocate Nun, divides life into good and evil, aids Sister Hedwig 84 Alice, visionary Saintly nun, has Faith and holy visions, aids Sister Hedwig 84 Malores, mute Faerie nun, mute, worships the moon at night 85 Nadaline, cook Larine’s closest friend, doesn’t answer questions, hard worker 88 Raphael Fled his lord’s wrath, took sanctuary in the convent stables 88 Father Martin Priest for the convent, dour, dislikes strangers, harsh confessor''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
