''If the characters have successfully dealt with the ruins of the covenant and solved the mysteries that surround its fall, they will eventually come to investigate the secrets of the Bell of Ibyn, which does not seem to work as reputed. The events of this chapter should not happen immediately after their expedition to the ruins; they should have plenty of time to rest and begin preliminary investigation of the Bell on their own. Only after several seasons of study should they come to the irrefutable conclusion that the Bell is damaged.''
''When all other avenues have been exhausted, the players should think of the nun who provided them with the letter in the first place. To help them along, you can have the Redcap from the first chapter arrive at the covenant again and ask how they fared. This may remind them that there is another source of information about Calebais, if they can convince Ash to tell them where she is.''
''Ash will not be easy or cheap to persuade. She gave her word that she would not tell the characters Sister Larine’s name or where she lives, and she will not break it. She might agree to bring them there to see her, but only if she has no doubts that the characters can be trusted. Essentially, there are three factors that they must address for her to feel comfortable with taking them to the convent.''
''Firstly, they must prove to Ash that there is no need for secrecy, either because they have already learned or deduced the nun’s name, or because they also swear to keep her identity secret. Knowing who she is, they might be able to track her down without Ash’s help, but the Redcap will not take kindly to threats that she is not needed and will be furious if she learns that the magi went to the convent without consulting her.''
''Secondly, the characters must convince Ash that there is a good reason to visit the convent, because the nuns will not think well of magi, and will certainly think less of Ash and Larine for bringing them there. They must persuade Ash, either by promising not to bring characters who could frighten the sisters (i.e. only wizards with the Gentle Gift and no companions with strange habits or bizarre appearances), or by explaining the situation and impressing upon her that Larine is their only hope of unlocking the final riddle of Calebais. If Ash understands the wizards’ desperation, she will feel more personally involved in their plight, and perhaps decide that she can risk the consequences of the nuns’ disapproval for the greater glory of the Order of Hermes.''
''Finally, Ash must like and/or respect the characters. If they treated her particularly well in the first chapter, this requirement will not be hard to meet, so long as they continue to go out of their way to''

[|

==Calebais==

''None of the characters in this chapter have been fully developed according to the rules of Ars Magica. This is by design, to encourage you to roleplay as much as possible, and to give you the freedom to use them however you think is best for the story. This is an opportunity for you and the players to develop characters through choice and desire, and thus you should find yourself using the dice and the rules for nothing more than''
''Personality tests, and then only when characters behave in ways that are contrary to their natures. For example, the players will probably figure out that they are supposed to be on their best behavior for the abbess, and after they have had a chance to settle in and become complacent you may want to have them make a roll or spend Confidence points whenever they want to act in some way that is particularly out of character for them.''

==Characters==


|]
''earn her favor. She expects good treatment as a member of the Order of Hermes, and believes that she deserves additional respect as one who performs a valuable duty. The characters will have to do something special, beyond what she feels she is entitled, to gain her notice. If she is not ill-disposed toward them, the characters can gain this trust with a little effort. If the characters have offended her, they will have to make substantial amends, and even then she will probably feel like they are trying to buy her off.''
''If the magi can address all three of these points with Ash, she will agree to escort them to the convent when they are ready. It is probably a fair distance; perhaps about sixty miles from the abbey that the characters visited in the first chapter, though it can be anywhere if you would like there to be more distance between these two expeditions. After their long journey, the characters will arrive at the convent tired and anxious, and will unfortunately find a great disappointment waiting for them.''

=The Convent=

''Sitting high on a rocky hill overlooking the water below, the convent is a collection of whitewashed stone buildings surrounded by a high wall. The four-story church tower is the focus of the entire structure, and is the only building more than two stories high. In the surrounding area are gardens, orchards and fields. Short walls covered with vines separate the different crops. Nuns in pure white habits, twenty in all, work silently outside, and the whole setting is pastoral and picturesque.''

==The White Sisters==

''During the journey, Ash will tell the characters about the prioress and her domineering ways, and joke that only those outside of the Order need such authoritarian leadership. As they reach the outskirts, she will make sure that they know the name of the nun who gave her the letter (Sister Larine). Then, after making sure everything is in order and that they can find their way back, she asks for some traveling money and bids them farewell. She does not wish to be further involved; she stays at the nunnery often when traveling and would rather not be seen with the characters, just in case something goes wrong.''
''As they approach, the nuns outside might see them from a distance and watch them curiously, and those in the courtyard will greet the visitors formally and send for the abbess. They will not be invited into the convent until after she has seen them and determined their business, so they may wait a few minutes outside the gate while the''
''sisters try to avoid staring at them. If the characters ask about Sister Larine, the nuns will look surprised and say very sorrowfully that she has died. They will answer no other questions, silently shaking their head and politely returning to work. If the characters force them to talk, or speak sharply to them, the nuns will grow very agitated and try to avoid them, and word will spread throughout the convent of the uncouth strangers.''

===Sister Hedwig===

''An aristocrat from birth, Hedwig now enjoys a position of respect similar to a baroness. Within the convent, she is indisputably in charge, making all decisions that affect their relationship with the outside world: entertaining visitors, expelling unwanted members, overseeing repairs and new construction, and so on. Her authority does not bother the other nuns, at least the more spiritually advanced among them, as it means that they need not bother with such matters, and can concentrate on bettering themselves. She is generally a good leader, but very used to getting her own way.''
''Hedwig is not the first abbess at the convent, but she is the first abbess under the Cistercian rule. Her guidance has seen the nuns''

[|
''Remember that characters with The Gift have grave difficulties when dealing with normal humans. Without the Gentle Gift, magi will have a very hard time convincing the abbess to see them, and the nuns will eye them warily the whole time they remain. Wizards will also be at a great disadvantage in the tests that follow, for it will take an incredible show of virtue to convince Sister Hedwig to help them. As for characters with the Blatant Gift, it is doubtful that they would be allowed into the convent at all.''
''When the abbess arrives, she will brusquely ask the characters their business, and if she deems it important she will arrange to meet with them later in the day. She will ask three of the nuns to make temporary quarters ready, where the characters can bathe and rest. If some of the characters are of noble bearing, they will be taken to the guest house, but a group of primarily warriors and other disreputable sorts (including characters with The Gift) will be shown to the hayloft that is built above the stables against the convent walls.''

==The Gift==


|]
''into a new age, and distinguished the nunnery very highly, pleasing both the secular potentates and her father-abbot, not to mention a large number of other influential Cistercians. Thus, her convent is accorded a great deal of leeway, and she feels she can bend the rules on occasion when she has good reason. For example, it would probably be frowned upon for any abbess to allow male guests to stay within the walls of the convent for more than a night, or encourage the nuns to interact with strangers to gauge their worth. However, Hedwig believes this sort of liberality will ultimately lead to good. If caught, she would probably suffer only a mild penance, and then only if it could be shown that her actions caused great harm.''
''In fact, Hedwig is the reason the convent is Cistercian in the first place, because she is related to a well-known bishop with close ties to Rome. Because of his influence, when she petitioned the order to be allowed to join, the Pope issued two bulls in favor of the nunnery, from which it draws most of its political might. One stated that the convent was to be directly subject to the Holy See. The other confirmed it as a member of the Cistercian order and raised its rank from a priory to an abbacy, increasing its power and independence from the diocesan bishop.''

[|
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per -1, Pre +1, Com +1, Str -3, Sta +1, Dex -2, Qik -2 Age: 58 Personality Traits: Authoritative +3, Careful +3, Kind +2 Appearance: The abbess is a stocky woman in her late fifties who retains the energetic poise and demeanor of her youth. Her hair is well groomed, and her voice is strong and authoritative. Her majestic frown betrays what she thinks of inefficiency or lack of ability in others. Roleplaying Tips: Speak with a deep, steady tone and use a voice that says “obey me” without seeming overbearing. Your gaze should be steady and your face full of dignity. Sister Hedwig is sharp and direct, but also wise and very kind. She will allow no mischief within her convent walls.''

==Sister Hedwig, abbess==


|]
''Because of her exalted independence, Hedwig can even travel to the meeting of abbots in Clairvaux every year, though she is not allowed to participate. She and her advisors crowd the sessions with other influential nuns of the order, engaging in judicious lobbying on the outskirts and subsequently meeting at Tart for a general chapter of their own, deliberating and voting on issues that affect the Cistercian nunneries. The abbots have not seriously penalized them for these outrageous acts, but only weakly decreed that they must abstain from wine while on their journey. Thus, while the abbots would seem to wield great and conclusive power over the nuns, in most cases the women are simply too much for their father-abbots to handle. It is in this environment that Sister Hedwig makes her political nest, and she finds it quite comfortable and well-suited to her.''
''When she is ready, the abbess will send for the visitors, instructing their leaders to meet with her in the parlor. She will be attended by two others, Sister Palona and Sister Alice. These nuns are her senior advisers, and she will not meet with the characters without them, for the sake of propriety as well as the extra boost to her authority.''
''The abbess will begin by asking their business, and once she confirms they are seeking Sister Larine, she will apologize for their loss, for Larine died in the time since they last heard of her. Yet their journey may not have been for nothing, she tells them, as Larine gave some information to the abbess before she died. If it is relevant to their reason for coming here, and she believes that by helping them she will do good, she might be willing to share it.''
''She will ask why they wished to see Larine, and how they knew her, for she was not aware that she had any living relations outside the convent. Together with her advisers (one excelling at logic and argument, the other a saintly visionary) she will question the characters thoroughly on these matters, attempting to discern their true intentions and find the weaknesses in any lies they tell. The crossexamination will be brisk and may even unearth secrets the characters would rather keep quiet, due to Alice’s holy insight. Magic bothers Sister Hedwig, especially its being used for ill; they also will not aid those who have committed evil acts in the past — through whatever means — if they fully intend to do so again.''
''Eventually, the abbess will ask for three days in which to consider the matter. She must reflect on what the characters have told her and decide whether or not they are people of virtue and righteousness. If the characters are willing to wait, she will see them returned to their lodgings and kept comfortable and occupied in the meantime. If not, she will nod sadly and escort them back to the gate.''
''If they stay, Sister Hedwig will secretly arrange several tests for the characters over the course of the next few days. These tests are included as story hooks in the sections that follow. They are designed to offer them opportunities to be virtuous and to sin, so that she may observe how they truly act.''

===Sister Palona===

''Sister Palona finds meaning in life by strictly separating the divine from the diabolical. Everything in the world must be either from God or from the devil, and she is intent to determine which side the characters favor, as that is how she interprets the duties that Sister Hedwig has assigned her. She is very sharp, and will report everything she finds to the abbess, who is wise enough to extract the truth from Palona’s polar views. Though arduous and difficult, Sister Hedwig finds her extremely valuable as she is well-versed in law and an excellent orator.''
''Sometimes they do clash wills, though; Palona once believed she should have been made abbess instead, and Hedwig has had to discipline her harshly on several occasions where she has overstepped her place. Palona still quietly dreams of this appointment, and tells herself that it is God’s will that she will one day take on those august duties. She will likely transfer much of her lingering resentment for Hedwig to the characters for the duration of their stay.''
''When she was young, Palona fled her home and inheritance with a lover, intending to elope with him. He brought her to the convent to make her safe until he could come back for her, but he never returned. Worse, she learned many years later that he lives in another village in the region, married advantageously. If the characters learn this, her bitterness may be explained, but she will forever become their enemy if she realizes her secret is known.''

[|
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre -3, Com +2, Str -3, Sta -3, Dex -2, Qik -2 Age: 61 Personality Traits: Devoted +1, Calm -3, Nice -3 Appearance: Sister Palona walks hunched over with a limp, and has a small round nose which is frequently reddened and raw as she is often sick. She is strident and shrill, and gesticulates with wide, aggressive gestures when she speaks. Roleplaying Tips: No matter what anyone else says, react to it as badly as you can, and let your thoughts show clearly on your face. Stare people in the eye, as that’s the best way to see into their hearts, but look away disdainfully if they stare back. Remember that even though you are vile and constantly suspicious, you’re also a nun.''

==Sister Palona, advocate==


|]

===Sister Alice===

''Alice is a poet of sorts, deeply immersed in the ascetic mysticism that the Cistercian order supports and encourages. Local theological scholars may have read her verses concerning emotional imagery of heaven, or descriptions of dreams she has had of Christ motioning to the wound in his side. She frequently has divine visions which have led to her increased commitment to holy pursuits and peace of mind. She will not take much notice of the characters unless they have something of spiritual significance to say, but her first impressions of them will be accurate and deep, and Sister Hedwig will greatly value her insights. If the characters have truly helped others in the past, Alice will recognize this and suggest that the abbess aid them in return.''
''Because of her holiness (many believe she will ascend directly to heaven when she dies), she is highly respected by the other nuns, even those who resent the abbess’s strict rule. The characters, especially the magi, should recognize that something about Alice is very different from their own experience. It is like she has The Gift, only instead of it disturbing and prickling others with its strangeness, it fills others with awe and wonder at the divine. She may be the closest the characters ever come to meeting a saint, and she should have a memorable effect on them.''
''If this brief description of Alice does not impress them, remember that she has a divine magic resistance of 60. If any of the magi tries to cast a spell at her, she may find them later and tell''
''them this in her own terms: “If you wish to touch me with your will, you must first bring your heart closer to God. You are twelve great steps removed from the edge of my sphere; you have turned your back on Him and pursued His shadow upon the earth before you; yet the distance is not so much that you cannot make your way back with His help, if only you would turn your gaze to the light.”''

===Sister Malores===

''This beautiful young woman is actually a faerie who once lived in the wild areas tamed by the sisters. The Dominion makes her slow-witted, and she was found unconscious by local villagers and brought to the nunnery. With nowhere else to go, Malores eventually became a nun herself, but from what she understands of theology, she worries that she cannot go to heaven when she dies as she does not have an immortal soul. Occasionally, she acts in strange ways and has been severely punished in the past for leaving the dormitory to pray beneath the full moon. Sister Palona says of her “She is corrected by word of mouth without result; she is urged by blows but there is no improvement.”''
''Sister Malores does not age, and the nuns already suspect there is something supernatural about her. She has the faerie sight, and will recognize magical characters. She will feel drawn to them, and they will continually find her following them whenever she''

[|
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre +3, Com +1, Str -1, Sta 0, Dex -1, Qik -1 Age: 39 Faith: 6 (6) Personality Traits: Compassionate +4, Somber +2, Joyous +1 Appearance: A powerful and saintly visionary, preoccupied with heavenly distractions, Alice has piercing gray eyes and a very thin frame. Roleplaying Tips: Focus completely on either your own thoughts (ignoring your surroundings) or what is happening immediately around you (tuning out the other world in your head). Hunch your head and look at the floor with your eyes closed, or else don’t move your face or body as you look at the person who has your attention. When you do reveal your intuition, speak quietly but confidently.''
''Characteristics: Int -3, Per +3, Pre +4, Com 0, Str -2, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik -1 Age: 55 (29) Personality Traits: Joyous +5, Curious +3, Distracted +1 Appearance: Malores is lithe and willowy with a vacant and serene expression, and appears about thirty years old, though the nuns all know she has lived at the abbey for at least that long. There is definitely something fay about her, perhaps in her eyes or a slight point to her ears. Roleplaying Tips: Though she cannot talk, she will attempt to communicate through pantomime. Consider this a challenge. Play out her desperation, her sense of being completely lost, and the special quality of innocence she has about her.''

|]

==Sister Alice, visionary Sister Malores, mute==

''can. She cannot speak within the divine aura, but if she spends a month in a magical or faerie place, she will regain her voice.''

===Sisiter Nadaline===

''Nadaline was Sister Larine’s closest friend, for they were very close all of her life at the convent. Nadaline was given to the convent soon after Larine joined, and they latched on to each other. There are many things about Larine that puzzled Nadaline, in particular her love of the sound of the church bell. Once she said that “the bell could hear her devotion,” but did not elaborate. Nadaline refuses to answer questions about her past or Larine’s, and becomes very angry if pressed about it, because she knows very little and misses her very much. She works hard and obeys her superiors. She generally dislikes the sisters who come from noble descent, as she feels they are incapable of hard work. She does not allow criticism in her kitchen, though in other places she is more meek and retiring.''
''You should play through all three days of living at the convent in detail, to give the players a sense of what such pious and secluded life would be like, and perhaps allowing their characters to grow and change from the experience. The quiet and subtle nature of this chapter has remarkable power and strength if you take the time to develop it properly.''

==Daily Life==

''The rule that the Cistercian nuns follow is extraordinarily strict, even more so than the typical monastic oath. They do not speak except when there is clear need, they are supposed to travel in pairs or groups of three, even within the abbey walls, and they do not leave the convent. They own no property and dress in identical white habits without adornment. Their duties involve many hours of hard work each day, periodically interrupted by the services, in which they all gather to chant and worship. Each of these services takes about twenty minutes and is an essential part of monastic life; nuns may only miss them if they have been given particular dispensation by the abbess.''
''Every new day begins in the same way. The nuns are awakened in the middle of the night for Matins and Lauds, where they gather in the church to sing the service and then return to their beds. They do this quietly, so as not to disturb guests, by sending a sister through the dormitory, and descending down special stairs that lead directly to the church. It is a soft and sleepy office, and creates a feeling of intimacy among the holy sisters that often bridges grudges and hostility that they may have for each other.''

[|
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre -2, Com -2, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +3, Qik -1 Age: 55 Personality Traits: Brave +2, Discerning +2, Patient -3 Appearance: Nadaline is white-haired, wrinkled, with strong blue eyes, hefty build, and an intimidating demeanor. She always seems to have some sort of tool in her hands: a rolling pin, bucket or plucked chicken. Roleplaying Tips: Emphasize her doughty girth and toughness by holding your arms out and squaring your jaw. Expressively wave around whatever she happens to be holding.''

==Sister Nadaline, cook==

''If the abbess learns that the characters have been using sorcery on the convent grounds, she will be very upset and summon them to meet with her and her advisers again. This may evolve into a theological debate about the inherent evils of magic, which will demonstrate that Palona and Alice have opposing views. Nonetheless, Sister Hedwig will firmly ask the characters to refrain from such activities while they stay with them. Her poor opinion of them might be lessened a little if the characters clearly used their powers virtuously.''
''After pondering this development, Sister Hedwig may decide to use it to test them further. She will arrange for the characters to be placed in positions similar to the conditions that caused them to use magic, and watched carefully to see if they do so again. She will also give them very hard work to do, such as digging up brambles or repairing the roof, to see if their magic has made them too lazy or proud to help.''

==Test: Magic==


|]
''In the morning, the nuns gather for Prime, the service named for the first hour of daylight, when the bells are rung to welcome the new day. This occurs usually at about 7:00. Guests will probably be awoken by the tolling of the bells, especially if they do not live near a monastery and are not used to hearing them ring the offices. After Prime, the nuns have a simple breakfast in the rectory, during which time a reader appointed by the abbess recites a devotional passage for the day, and then the nuns wash and attend to the necessities of nature before beginning household chores such as laundry, cleaning, or working in the kitchen.''
''The third hour (about 9:00) marks the ringing of the bells again and the nuns gather for Terce, followed by the liturgy, and then a chapter meeting among the nuns to read from the Rule and discuss abbey business. This is when the sisters will inform the abbess what they have seen and heard of the characters, and when she will direct them what to do during the following day. The nuns spend the rest of the morning performing manual labor in the vestry, the gardens, or vineyards, though not on Sundays, when instead they attend Mass.''
''At noon the nuns chant Sext, the sixth hour, and then gather for a hearty meal, consisting of a pound of bread, and fruits and vegetables in season, but no meat. On cold days, this might be a warm, hearty soup, and there is often a choice of two dishes. Guests might be invited to lunch with the abbess, if she would like to keep an eye on them or ask how they are doing. As the nuns do not speak during meals, the room is silent except for the reading of more Scriptures and the shuffle of bowls, spoons, benches and feet.''
''After lunch the nuns rest briefly and engage in quiet, artistic activities in the afternoon, such as embroidery or copying devotional texts, further prayer, or meditation. Those who have been assigned unusual duties by the abbess will carry them out at this time. This sedentary stretch of the day is interrupted by Nones, named for the ninth hour, which is observed at about 15:00.''

[|
''All of the nuns rise every morning for Matins and Lauds, and believe that keeping this rigorous schedule helps make them healthier and holier. While going to the office, if any of the nuns sees the characters up and about in the early hours engaged in prayer, study, walking or other wholesome activities, the abbess will hear of it and be impressed. She will not think less of her guests if they sleep all the way through Prime, but she will if she learns they have complained of being awoken by the bells.''

==Test: Early Risers==

''At each chapter meeting, the abbess will inform the sisters that she has not been convinced the characters are worthy of hearing Sister Larine’s last message, and that she is not going to tell it to them. All the nuns know that when she makes up her mind, no amount of persuasion will change it. She will tell them this whether it is true that she doesn’t intend to help them or not (though she is not, strictly speaking, lying; she will not be convinced until three days have passed, and she doesn’t intend to tell the characters anything, for she actually has something to show them). This misinformation is a test to see if the characters are spying on her and the nuns, or if the nuns are communicating with them. She reasons that if they overhear this, or somehow convince one of the nuns to tell them, they will show their true colors or give up and leave of their own accord, neatly punishing themselves.''

==Test: Spying==

''While many of the nuns are resting and otherwise occupied, the characters might notice Sister Palona sneaking off to a distant corner of the compound. If they follow her without her noticing (and she is very alert and will be cautious), they will find she goes to tend a very small but beautiful flower garden. She cares for the greenery lovingly and with surprising tenderness, humming softly to herself. This may soften the characters towards the sour-faced and bitter woman, and the abbess will notice this and approve.''

==Test: Gardening==


|]
''When all the work is done and the day is over, the bells ring for Vespers, and the nuns gather again to sing the service and herald the approach of evening. They then take a light supper while listening to more Bible readings, study, and gather one last time to sing the closing service, Compline. They then go to bed.''
''By every day’s end, the nuns have worked for about six hours, prayed together for about four hours, engaged in quiet contemplation and study for about eight hours, and slept for eight hours. While this routine may seem severe, it is very attractive to the nuns as an escape from the uncertainties of life in dangerous times. The convent offers food, shelter, education, and community, and also the chance to learn and develop spiritually. It is an extremely attractive medieval lifestyle, producing a flowering of deep and fulfilling devotion, and on the whole the nuns are quite content.''

==Places in the Convent==

''The place where the nuns make their home is fairly typical for the middle ages. Most monasteries and nunneries were built to this plan, as this convent was originally a Benedictine house. It may seem large, but wealthy abbeys often support a number of lay brothers, men called conversi, who were not monks but vowed to serve and help with the labor. The nuns do not have any such help, and do all the work themselves.''
''The convent is built around a great square courtyard, called the cloister, which is open to the air with a covered walkway around all four sides. During times of prayer or exercise the nuns might walk around this path, and should not be disturbed. The cloister is to be silent at all times. It is bounded on all four sides by the important areas of the building.''
''To the west is the hospitum, or guest house, where the characters might stay. There are four separate rooms, and plenty of space to accommodate a large group on narrow bunks. Water is heated for two guest washrooms. Farther south is the abbess’s house and the parlor, accessible from the principal refectory, where guests eat.''
''The south side of the cloister contains the common refectory and day-room, where the nuns take their meals. It is a long, vaulted chamber with pillars that direct the eye upward and inspire the nuns to contemplate the heavens while they sit. The kitchen lies between the two refectories, with easy access to both. Beyond are the gardens and vineyards on their gentle slope towards the river.''

[|
''In the late afternoon or early evening, a pretty young nun seeks out one of the male characters, probably a handsome grog or companion. She shyly asks him if he would like to help her gather grass for the refectory table. She is very curious what he will do when he is alone with her; having lived at the convent most of her life, she knows little of men and would like to know more. If the character behaves as a gentleman, this event will eventually be another positive mark for the troupe when the abbess finds out. However, if things get out of hand, it may ruin any chance of the characters ever impressing the nuns. This is such a perilous test that you might want to allow another character to see them go off together, so that other players can intervene or get help if the situation looks like it might end badly.''

==Test: Curiosity==

''The cook, Sister Nadaline, asks (or perhaps orders) the characters to bring several baskets of bread from the bakery and a cask of wine from the storehouse. If they humbly assist her, or at least don’t make much of a fuss about it, news of their charity will reach the abbess. Nadaline may press her luck, though, and then conscript the characters to help her in the kitchen for several hours. The abbess will not think well of her for doing this. She may also become suspicious of the characters if they don’t complain, and decide to leave them alone for a day to see what they do when they are left aimless.''
''Sister Palona may spot the characters carrying the heavy barrel into the kitchens, and purposefully stumble into them. If they react poorly, she will simply walk away smugly. If they are polite and deferential, she will begin to berate them, blaming them for getting in her way. She will do everything she can to anger the characters, even causing a scene by breaking the cask they were carrying, spilling the wine everywhere and screeching at their clumsiness. Obviously, word of the encounter will be carried back to the abbess.''

==Test: Chores==


|]
''Above the refectories is the dormitory, where the nuns sleep. Beds line the simple chamber, though there are also several private rooms for nuns who have been granted more privacy, or who are ill and need to sleep apart. There are two sets of stairs; one leads down to the common refectory, while another leads past the scriptorium to the south transept of the church.''
''On the east side of the cloister is the chapter house, where abbey business is transacted, and the vestry, where materials for the services are kept and where the priest prepares the Mass. A small penitent’s cell is also nearby. A long hall leading to the outer courtyard allows access to the outer gate, where the small gatehouse limits all contact with the outside world. Against the wall are several storehouses and specialized buildings, such as the stables (which usually quarter only a pair of mules), the bakery, and the laundry.''
''To the north is the church, built in the shape of the cross, with a long pillared nave leading east to the choir, where the nuns sit before the high altar, and two transepts making a north-south crossbeam. The common altar and pews fill the western half of the church. A great door in the northern transept leads to the outer courtyard, and allows access to the church without passing through the convent. Elegant pointed arches cap the ceilings, and give the windows a distinctly Gothic look that the Cistercians are just beginning to make famous.''

=The Letter=

''After three days have passed, if the characters have not embarrassed themselves too terribly, the abbess summons them to her again, but this time without Sister Palona and Sister Alice. By now, she has probably made up her mind, and she would like to give them an opportunity to explain themselves before she acts as she thinks best. Her opinion can still be swayed if the characters do particularly well or poorly at this interview, however.''
''Sister Hedwig will speak candidly with the characters about what happened during the days they spent at the convent. She''

[|
''Staying with the nuns in secret is Raphael, a young squire once employed by the local baron who has taken sanctuary at the convent. He was a little too friendly with the baron’s wife, and was furiously dismissed by his lord, who also challenged him to a fight of honor. Raphael fled the duel and hides in the stables fearing the baron’s vengeance, and he has no idea what he will do once his thirty days end, when he will probably be hauled out forcefully by the baron’s men. He is a skilled manservant, and good at music, but no one in the area would hire him now. One day he will inherit land, but he doesn’t think he will live that long in his current situation. He will avoid magi, but he might show himself to a companion or grog, perhaps making light of his situation at first by making fun of them, “common ruffians, mingling with noble blood,” and accidentally provoking a fight with his insensitivity. If the characters help him, Sister Hedwig will be pleased. If they hurt him too badly, it will also reflect badly on them.''

==Test: Raphael==

''The second night at the convent is the full moon, and the characters might be awakened by a quiet keening sound. Those who investigate discover the mute sister in the garden chanting in a strange whispering voice. She is clearly praying to the moon, which might strike characters as pagan worship. Sister Hedwig will not think well of the characters if they tell her about this, or spread word of these strange activities throughout the convent, as she regards it as divisive and unkind, and forces her to have Malores punished. She thinks this is cruel, because the voiceless sister cannot understand why what she is doing is wrong.''

==Test: Malores==

''The priest, Father Martin, arrives at the convent on Sunday to give Mass. He is a dour, tired man in his fifties who gets along well with the nuns but does not like strangers. He will likely be dismayed at the guests, and may even spread ill word of them through the village if they do not mollify him. Yet if they want to impress the abbess, they must attend the service, and she will be particularly impressed if they visit confession. The father will assign them strict and tough penance for their sins.''

==Test: Mass==


|]
''will ask specific questions about why they did what they did, revealing for the first time how closely she has been observing them. After discussing the details and how they have affected her opinion of them, she will ask them if they have felt any change come over them during their stay. Encourage the players to treat her as a sort of confessor, and allow that their characters might have been transformed a little by this story. Even if they have done terribly before now, they can still receive the reward if they repent and accept penance for their actions.''
''Finally, Sister Hedwig will give the characters one final test, to see how they react to defeat. She wants to know if their behavior at the convent is true or merely a show for her benefit. She''
''will inform them gravely that she is sorry, but she cannot help them, as they are not virtuous enough for her standards. Gently, she will suggest that they take some time away from the convent and return when they feel they are ready. She will stand peremptorily, announce that their discussion is at an end, and escort them to the gate, watching them carefully for signs of humility and resolve.''
''After this last event, if Sister Hedwig has decided to help the characters, she will stop them with a word and motion for them to follow her, leading them back through the refectory, around the cloister, and into the church. She kneels at the back of the nave, crosses herself, and murmurs a short prayer. Then she goes''

[|
''Magi of Hermes:''
''I will soon leave this world, and so I will my remaining knowledge to you, that it will not be lost forever. I hope that the letter I once carried reached you. I hope you were able to prevent disaster and recover the good works of Calebais from within the fallen walls.''
''You may not realize that the Bell of Ibyn is much more than it appears. If you have not yet retrieved it, as it is well hidden, you should persevere. It is more powerful a force of good than I can describe. It will protect you from all evil, save that which preys upon the soul. Though, if you wish to avoid the fate of the wizards of Calebais, do not wear the crowns that control the Bell for any longer than is needful, for they will change you assuredly!''
''To reach the treasure vault of Calebais, you must find the magical doorway in the wizards’ council room. You will discover my former love’s hand to guide you. I do not know why, but the wizard Crenvalus sealed David in the door as he passed through, and I took the letter from his hand as he died. I beg you, please retrieve his remains and see that they are given a Christian burial, for I wish him to be at peace.''
''To make use of the Bell, you must complete a special ritual. Each rune on the Bell has its own meaning, and describes a particular virtue or vice. They are tied to the knobs on either side, which are opposites. I do not remember what each rune meant, but they were often compared to the figures in the forest and the wizards’ titles, and everyone who participated in the ritual represented one of them. I remember that my trait had to do with “devotion.”''
''During the ceremony, the leader of the ritual held a mallet with which to strike the Bell, and did not wear a diadem, for he would have been deafened by the sound if he had. Each of us would put on a crown, and come forward to stand''
''beneath the Bell when our symbol was announced. He would then strike the knob, which would make the Bell toll most awfully if that person was participating for the first time. The leader would then file the knob that corresponded to that person’s trait until the tone had become clear.''
''A few times, the magi decided after unsuccessfully tuning the Bell that a person did not best epitomize the trait, and brought forth another. This caused great arguments, for the magi feared that the Bell would lose its powers when the knobs were filed down too far. Yet every time one of us died, the magi would perform the ritual again.''
''After every knob’s particular tone was realized, the leader would break five magical stones he carried, to release the magic that increases other magic, what they called vis. I believe from what he said while doing this that these stones bound all of our essences to the Bell.''
''Once the ritual was complete, the many powers of the Bell would become apparent. You will find that some of them may be used even before it is tuned, for the will diadems allow you to see through illusions, and if you wear one and say “The crown is broken,” you may see great distances through the eyes of others.''
''The sisters have always been kind and true to me, and I revere Sister Hedwig as my holy mother and friend. I am deeply grateful for their help. If my convent is ever in need, promise me you will give us aid however you can, in return for my pains on your behalf. May the good Lord bless you on your perilous road and deliver you safely from evil.''
''Yours with Christ''
''Sister Larine''

==Sister Larine’s Last Letter==


|]
''down the aisle to the high altar, reaches behind it, and removes a sealed parchment.''
''Bearing this prize, she returns to her quarters, still leading the characters, and places it before them, saying: “Though Sister Larine was weak, she still found the strength to lift a quill and write this letter for you in her last hours. Perhaps it will answer your questions about the life she forsook when she came here.''
''Only I know of it, and if you wish to ensure it remains secret, you need only deal with me.” She says this last piece with a smile or with deadly seriousness, depending on how she believes her speech will affect the characters.''
''If Sister Hedwig were aware of the contents of this letter, she would probably have burned it, as she has no interest in encouraging the practice of magic or teaching magical methods. She''

[|
''As the letter describes, the characters must perform an intensive magical ritual to bring forth the hidden powers of the Bell of Ibyn. This involves determining what traits the 24 symbols on the Bell represent, and finding characters to best represent each one. This may be the source of many interesting stories in the future, if the covenant does not have enough people or if they do not embody certain traits. The details of these traits are left to you to decide, based on what works best for your saga, but you might start with traits of the animals in the Veil or traits based on the titles of the magi on the council. You might use this hook to encourage players to design characters with traits that they otherwise would not consider playing, with the powerful incentive that if the characters do not embody their traits well enough, the Bell’s powers will begin to fade.''
''The ceremony needs at least twelve participants, a diadem, and a leader, who must have the Gift. He calls a person forward to stand beneath the Bell, and strikes it with a mallet, tuning only one knob on either side to fit that person’s traits. If he wears a diadem during this process, he will be permanently deafened. Once the Bell is in tune, he spends five pawns of Vim vis. If the ritual is carried out correctly, the diadems will resonate with the tone of the Bell, vibrating slightly whenever it is struck.''
''The new powers of the Bell include:''
''I. Those who wear diadems and who are within the Bell’s boundary will be magically directed towards any people who were not within the boundary during the tuning ritual. They sense a tug in the direction from which strangers approach, and may easily follow this sense to locate them. (InMe30) II. Diadem-wearers may make the Bell ring at will, from any distance. The control is not very fine, and can only be activated once every round, so it is not very useful for sending complex messages. The sound is tuned to match a pitch''
''that corresponds to the wearer, though, so it is possible to recognize who activated it. (ReTe30) III. If any magical creatures or devices which were not within the boundary during the ritual come within a mile of the Bell, it will give a huge, deep toll of warning. (InVi40) IV. Those who wear diadems can hear the sound of the Bell ringing, no matter how far the intervening distance. (InIm20) V. Those who wear diadems may cast the spell Aura of Rightful Authority three times per day. Doing so causes the Bell to ring very gently at a particular high pitch. (ReMe20) VI. While characters wear diadems, their Personality traits associated with the ritual become emphasized, increasing or decreasing by 3. Characters will be compelled to act on these traits as if they were Major Personality Flaws. (MuMe20) VII. If anyone who was part of the tuning ritual dies, the Bell will toll twelve times, becoming more and more out of tune as it rings, and it will again cease to function. (InMe20)''
''A note of caution: the repaired Bell of Ibyn is an extremely powerful artifact, and it may be unbalancing if your players are new to the game and have only starting-level characters. You might consider suggesting ways for the characters to get rid of the Bell in return for rewards appropriate to their station. For example, the characters’ masters might expect their descendants to hand it over, and will cause them more trouble than it is worth if they refuse. Or perhaps the covenant that Ornath joined registered a prior claim with the tribunal, stating that as the last living member of the covenant, Ornath was entitled to the Bell, and that if recovered it should be delivered to his descendants in accordance with the former covenant’s charter. They might nicely settle out of court with the characters, perhaps paying them a hefty amount of vis, but promise them all kinds of political grief if they dispute it.''

==The Ritual==


|]
''would also think less of Sister Larine for passing on such knowledge, and if the characters are wise they will politely thank her for the letter and leave, rather than read it in her presence and tempt her curiosity.''
''This story ends after the delivery of the letter. Because of their actions at the convent, the characters may have made new friends or enemies, and as long as they impressed the abbess they will be welcome if they pass by in the future. She and the other nuns may make contact with the characters in the future, as part of other stories or inspiration for new ones.''
''There are other ways the characters could retrieve the letter, of course. For example, they could try to coerce the abbess into telling them what she knows. Against this eventuality, she is careful not to mention that there is a letter, instead making it seem that Sister Larine told her something before she died. Yet there may be ways for the characters to discover this information using magic, guile, or force; you should simply decide whether you want that kind of behavior to be successful.''
''Perhaps Sister Alice had a vision several months ago, and warned Sister Hedwig some of what would happen when the characters arrive. Sister Hedwig isn’t sure how much of these visions to trust, but you can rule that the letter isn’t where the characters would find it. That is, if they ransack the church, she has hidden it in her quarters. If they search her house, she has buried it in the garden. If they dig up the fields, she has given it to another convent for safekeeping.''
''If characters are failing at the tests, you can allow desperate players to find it with searching, but anyone who attacks the defenseless nuns or murders them to retrieve the prize should suffer dramatic consequences: besides being cursed by God, they will probably have to go into hiding as most of Mythic Europe (shocked nobility, an outraged Church, even the angry Order of Hermes) will pursue them. There are some things that go beyond the pale, and slaughtering innocent sisters is about as horrible as you can get. Warn the players of this if they seem set to pursue this course, as it could ruin the rest of their saga.''

==Options: The Legacy==

''I. The abbess asks the characters for help in combating the demands of a local baron concerning land and a village that were donated to the convent. He maintains the land is his, and has taken it away from the convent by force. They are fighting the situation politically, lobbying for support within the Church, but in the meantime the baron is vindictively abusing the folk who live there and overworking the fields. If the characters intervene on the convent’s behalf, teaching the baron and his hirelings a lesson, Sister Hedwig will give them the letter. This option is a good choice if your troupe prefers combat as part of every story.''
''II. If the characters have failed to convince the abbess to help them, perhaps Sister Larine has not died, but is only in hiding. She cannot bear the thought of facing wizards again, for in her senility she fears they would punish her for leaving the covenant. However, her devotion to her former masters finally gets the better of her, and a strange old nun approaches the characters as they leave. She feebly whispers “Larine,” and though the abbess voices strong disapproval, she summons the strength to tell the characters what she knows of the Bell. If you don’t mind being melodramatic, she dies as she finishes. Because of this, the nuns will come to blame the characters for her death after they leave, and they will receive a bad reputation in the region.''
''III. Before the characters leave the convent, Sister Malores meets them and silently begs them with gestures and body motions to take her with them. She desperately wants to return to a place of faerie, or even magic, and is very uncomfortable in the Dominion. To leave with her, the characters will have to negotiate with the abbess, convince Malores to leave on her own, or kidnap her, but once drawn up as a character she might make an interesting addition to their covenant, or become a source of new adventures if they are willing to help her return to Faerie.''
''In the story of the broken covenant, the animal maga Ierimyra rescued a group of magical ferret-like creatures and brought them to Calebais. These animals of virtue were larger and more intelligent than their mundane counterparts, and by experimenting in her lab she created and fostered a human intelligence in them. The changes she made are clearly inheritable by their offspring, though variations can still occur — for example, only the ermines have magical powers — and while they closely resemble mundane ferrets, all of them have developed specialized advantages that compensate for their weaknesses.''
''These Hrools are designed to act as interesting, unusual denizens of Calebais that take the place of goblins, kobolds, and other small humanoid creatures that typically inhabit a fantasy dungeon setting. However, unlike their counterparts, the Hrools are not simply creatures to be fought and killed, but rather unique adversaries and potential allies that you may be interested in studying, adopting, or even playing once the adventure has ended.''

==Awakening Animals==

''To duplicate Ierimyra’s work, you must first understand the Hermetic breakthrough that made her experiments possible. This will take at least a season of study, and require you to either uncover and comprehend Ierimyra’s lab notes, bring a living Hrool back to your lab for magical investigation (the effect is level 15, or level 30 for an ermine Hrool, and you must study an ermine to learn how to invest magical powers), or seek out the original source of the breakthrough by tracking down the wizard or wizards who first taught it to Ierimyra (perhaps it was learned through initiation into deeper levels of the Bjornaer mystery cult). In any case, to create intelligent animals, you must investigate beyond the concept and theory to learn the specifics of the magical method that follows.''
''You must then find a living subject, a naturally fine animal representative of its species, with some amount of Magic Might. Similar standards to those for finding and befriending a familiar apply, though not quite as strictly since these results are more akin to a parent-child relationship than a bond between true friends or lifelong companions. The animal simply should be open to being tamed or domesticated, and not hostile as you will be spending a lot of time with it in the lab.''
''Next is the ritual in which you give the animal human intelligence, known as “awakening.” Your laboratory total is Creo + Mentem + Intelligence + Magic Theory, and bonuses from aptitudes, attunements and the like may apply (though not the special bonus given to initiates of Verditius). The level of the ritual is level 25, plus the animal’s Magic Might, plus or minus five times its Size. This is similar to the formula for enchanting a familiar; and so a creature with Might 5 and size -3 would require a lab total of 15, while a creature with Might 20 and size -3 would be level 30.''
''As when you are binding a familiar, your lab total must equal or exceed this level for you to complete the ritual, which takes one season, and you must spend a pawn of either Creo or Mentem vis for each five levels or fraction thereof. You can also awaken multiple creatures of the same species in one season if your lab total is high enough, by multiplying the base level by the number of animals awakened.''

===Awakening Lab Total: Creo + Mentem + Intelligence + Magic Theory + Aura Modifier===


===Awakening Level: Animal’s Magic Might + 25 + (5 X Size)===


===Awakening Cost: 1 Pawn of Creo Or Mentem Vis Per Five Levels Or Fraction===

''Once the initial awakening ritual is complete, you can spend additional seasons to imbue the intelligent animal with special powers, which it can activate with its Might. This is very similar''

[|

==Calebais==


|]
''to crafting an invested device, for the animal has been prepared for enchantment as part of the awakening ritual. Note the amount of vis you spent to awaken the creature, because it limits how many powers you can give the animal.''
''Determine each effect with which you want to instill the animal, just as if you were designing an effect for an invested device (see ArM5). If it matters, the creature is considered both the wielder and the device for these powers. Then, invest the effect as normal, calculating your lab total based on the level of the invested effect. Verditius bonuses for crafting items do not apply to this process, either. The total level of all effects cannot be greater than ten times the number of pawns of vis invested in the awakening ritual. That is, if awakening a creature cost three pawns of vis, it cannot possess more than 30 levels of magical effects.''
''This process still takes an amount of time based on your lab total and the level of the invested effect, a minimum of one season per power, and while you cannot instill multiple powers with different Arts during the same season, you can give the same power to multiple animals, using the rules for multiple laboratory activities (see ArM5).''
''You do not have to spend vis on these powers. Instead, each power will cost the creature 1 point of its temporary Might for every 10 levels of the effect. However, you can spend vis to reduce the cost: five pawns associated with any of the Arts in the power reduces the activation cost by 1 Might point. For example, the ermine Hrools have a ReTe10 power, which costs them 1 point of temporary Might to activate. To reduce the cost to nothing would cost five pawns of either Rego or Terram vis. Their ReMe30 effect costs 3 points, and lowering it to 1 point would cost 10 pawns of Rego or Mentem vis. This can only be done at the time the power is instilled; you cannot make the power cheaper later.''

===Power Lab Total: Technique + Form + Intelligence + Magic Theory + Aura Modifier===


===Power Level: As an Effect Instilled in a Device===


===Power Cost: 1 Temporary Might Per Ten Levels Or Fraction of the Effect, Minus 1 for Every 5 Pawns of Vis of the Effect’s Technique Or Form===

''Once an animal has been awakened, it is no longer suitable for binding as a familiar. The awakening ritual causes such dramatic changes to an animal that the magical cords can no longer bind it. In a sense, an awakened animal is bound only to itself.''
''Most unfortunately, the ritual doesn’t always “take.” You may find after breeding awakened animals that their offspring are all simply mundane versions of their parents. It is a sad and bitter truth''
''that magic is not always predictable, and some magi have devoted years of study into awakening only to discover that their magnum opus is a temporary thing, an illusion of achievement with no lasting effect. This may happen because of some weakness of the animal, or perhaps because the wizard’s own spirit is flawed.''

==Awakened Behavior==

''An intelligent animal, which Hermetic scholars might call an animula (ah-nee-MOO-lah, “little soul”), requires a incredible amount of effort to raise, very similar to sacrifice involved in taking an apprentice or having a baby. Once an animal has been awakened, it will go through stages similar to those of a newborn child; at first it may be in shock, and slowly become more aware of itself and its new environment, eventually interacting with and learning from its parent. As part of the awakening process, the animal gains the power of speech, though it may take some time for it to learn how to use it.''
''Mechanically, the following changes occur: the animal’s Cunning becomes Intelligence, and it gains Presence and Communication scores. It can also learn Abilities, have Virtues and Flaws, and age as humans do. Thus far, no animula has been found to possess The Gift, but perhaps that is only because there are so few of them. Or, it may be that Gifted animals have been discovered, but were secretly incorporated into House Bjornaer and taught to change into a human shape to protect them from the ignorant.''
''The animal’s new characteristics are considered from a human perspective: Presence is how attractive the creature is to humans and other awakened animals, and Communication describes its ability to speak and comprehend human sounds. For example, a beautiful white horse might have a high Presence, as people would find it very attractive, while a scruffy rat would not receive as positive a reaction. A creature with sharp teeth and pointed snout like a dog would probably not speak very well, but a songbird with a musical voice and captivating song could have an excellent Communication score.''
''In all ways, animulae are natural, living creatures, and they usually pass on their awakened traits to their offspring. They are still animals in most respects, as their physical bodies are affected by Animal rather than Corpus spells. Magi who are aware of these creatures argue that since they are animals, they are meant to be commanded by humans, for though magic may give them an animating spirit, it cannot give them a soul, and so they can never equal or exceed their human masters. Others argue that the ritual which opens animals’ eyes also gives them the knowledge of right and wrong, and that these animulae must receive souls when they first become awakened, just as newborn chil''
''dren do. Intelligent animals have free will, they say, and like people, they should be taught to avoid sin, not forced to do man’s bidding.''
''This is an important philosophical argument, for each position outlines a very different method for treating awakened creatures. Those who believe that animulae are simply animals are likely to treat them as servants in the best case and slaves in the worst. They might even breed and slaughter them for vis. On the other hand, those open to the idea that intelligent animals are essentially humans in unusual bodies are likely to feel terrible pain on their behalf when the animals are rejected by others and prevented from seeking salvation, and outrage at the many forms of abuse they might endure. Those of either opinion will encounter dangerous opposition from those who think differently, as there is no middle ground or definite answers to an issue like this, but the Order of Hermes is traditionally disdainful of the idea that intelligent animals are equal to humans, as it is a common punishment to execute a wizard’s familiar, but not his custodes.''
''Regardless of their opinion on these philosophical matters, many of the magi who know the secret of awakening view it as a powerful experience, much like having a child of their own. For older magi, or those who have performed a longevity ritual, an animula is the closest they can come to creating new life, and more than training an apprentice or crafting an item, it allows them to leave a piece of themselves to become a part of a smaller, magical person who follows them.''
''Note that familiars have many similarities to animula, as they are also intelligent, though they cannot pass on their intelligence to their offspring and cannot be given invested powers in the same way as awakened animals. However, these same ideas may be just as useful for developing stories about wizards’ animal companions.''

==Awakened Characters==

''Since animulae can have human characteristics, Abilities, Virtues and Flaws, and other attributes, it is possible to play one as a character, as long as your troupe approves. They are probably best suited to companions, as this emphasizes their uniqueness, though like Ierimyra an Animal-oriented magus might choose to awaken a turba of animal grogs, despite the difficulties they would have interacting with others. If you intend to play such characters, design them as normal, and assume any natural advantages you gain due to size or rarity are compensated by the increased difficulties you will face avoiding and interacting with others, and with finding other magical animals like yourself. Here follows several Virtues and Flaws appropriate for an awakened animal character, including the Animula Status Flaw.''

===Major Status Flaw (Required)===

''Animula: You are an animal that has been granted magical intelligence by a benevolent magus. Few people at your covenant treat you with respect, and you are usually considered a lesser person, in many ways a natural slave or servant. Outside the covenant, you frighten people so terribly that they probably attack you on sight. This flaw essentially encompasses three minor flaws: Judged Unfairly, Feral Upbringing, and Social Handicap, all of which you possess, though their penalties vary depending and are magnified when you are among humans or normal animals of your species. You age as an animal, not a human, so you may begin making aging rolls much earlier in life. Finally, you have Magic Might equal to 10 – your Size (add your Size if it is negative), and if killed your corpse could contain a number of pawns of vis equal to your Magic Might divided by 5, of an Art appropriate to your form.''

===Major General Virtues===

''Greater Powers: You were imbued with great powers by the wizard who awakened you. Take up to 60 spell levels in magical effects, or spend 10 of these levels to reduce the cost of one of your powers by 1 point, though not below 0. You may take this Virtue more than once.''

===Minor General Virtues===

''Ferocity: Like companion and magus characters, you have Confidence points, even though you are only a grog. However, your Confidence points may be used only in situations where your natural animal ferocity is triggered, such as when defending your den or fighting a natural enemy. Describe a situation that activates your Confidence, and take three points for you to use when those circumstances are met.''
''Improved Might: You have twice as much Magic Might as is normal for animals of your species; add (10 your Size) to the amount of Magic Might with which you begin the game.''
''Lesser Powers: Your master imbued you with supernatural powers during your awakening ritual. Take up to 10 spell levels in magical effects, or reduce the cost of one of your powers by 1 point (though not below 0). You may take this Virtue as many times as you wish.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
