''The story begins when the characters are visited by a Redcap, one of the messengers of the Order of Hermes, who bears a letter for the magi. This Redcap could be someone the characters know, who lives in their Tribunal, or a new character that they will meet for the first time. Included is a character named Ash, a Redcap without The Gift, who you may use for this story. In any case, since all covenants need to have some connection to the Order, no matter how remote or secret the wizards may be they will eventually receive the message that introduces the adventure.''

==Ash==

''Ash is a member of a small group of redcaps who call themselves “the Broken Branches.” She has spent her entire adult life as a messenger for the Order of Hermes; she loves the freedom, the excitement, and the responsibility. If she could not travel, she would quickly wither away. Her name is her own invention, and she doesn’t like questions or jokes about it. She is respectful to magi, but privately doesn’t think much of them or their leadership. However, she is very loyal to the Order of Hermes as a whole; this may be because the only person she’s ever trusted (beside herself) was her brother, a magus, now dead.''
''Ash wears a magical traveler’s cloak, which was a gift to her from her brother and her most prized possession. He also gave her a magic ring that can disguise her appearance, making her look and sound like a man when necessary. She intensely dislikes this, but she recognizes that it is often useful, as medieval women rarely travel without an escort and are not treated well when they do. It is one of the reasons she respects the Order, for among wizards she can simply be herself.''
''When Ash does something that does not fall within her official duties, she expects to be paid. House Mercere sees to her needs, but she believes that it is through special alms that magi recognize her exceptional efforts on their behalf. To her, not giving her something in return for doing something expertly is treating''
''her like a servant, and that hurts her pride. She will not take kindly to magi who think of her as little more than a courier, and these characters will have a hard time convincing her to do anything for them that she doesn’t have to do.''
''This story device works best if the characters call a special meeting to hear the message, with as many magi as possible present to hear it. The Redcap will explain upon her arrival that the information she carries is interesting but not urgent, and concerns a former covenant in the area known as Calebais. It can wait a few hours while she recovers from her journey, perhaps giving the magi time to refresh their knowledge.''

==Rumors of Calebais==

''As long as the characters have some knowledge of the Order (that is, a score in Order of Hermes Lore), players may see what they know  about the former covenant by making an Intelligence + Order of Hermes Lore stress roll and applying the results to the list below. You might wait to reveal all of this information until after every roll has been made, so that you can share the results with the whole troupe; don’t force the players to compare notes unless the characters are particularly secretive, as several characters may recall the same things.''
''Characters with an hour or two to spend in a library with books on Order of Hermes Lore might be allowed to do some spontaneous research. One way to do this is to rule that if they happen to have a relevant book in their library that they can read, and they take the time to skim through it, they may add its Quality to their roll. If this information comes from a summa, this cannot increase the total beyond its Level x 3. As this is simply scanning a book for pertinent information, Virtues like Book Learner shouldn’t apply.''

===Knowledge Roll: Stress Die + Intelligence + Ability Research: Knowledge Roll + Quality Summa Limit: Level X 3===

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Calebais==


|}
''If players botch their roll, their characters will remember nothing about Calebais, and might suffer other ill effects depending on the severity of the botch: they might become fatigued, lose interest in the whole subject, or even suffer a loss of Confidence Points. You can also mix up or invent information to give them, but try to avoid giving hints of what is true and what is false this way. Knowing that they botched, players will probably disregard what you tell them unless that information is confirmed by other sources.''
''If characters have heard something about Calebais, they may also have heard stories that are exaggerated or simply not true, and examples are included below. You can use this disinformation to provide red herrings for the players, though you may want to make another roll in secret, or provide the less reliable information to characters who are prone to recklessness or gossip. All the rumors have grains of truth about them, though, and''
''if the “false” ones interest you, they can be developed into additional options for this story.''
''You may want to note what information you give to whom, so that if the players forget you can allow their characters to remember without having to work out what you revealed.''
''0+ (True): Calebais was a covenant that gained notoriety in its Tribunal for being destroyed about fifty years ago. The magi there were very proud, more so than most, perhaps because of their reputed great wealth. 0+ (False): The disaster that befell Calebais was said to be divinely inspired, and widely regarded as a miracle. An old man visited the covenant and called down a pillar of fire to burn up the evil wizards and everyone who served them. 3+ (True): The wizards of Calebais were known for being isolated and caring little about the outside world. They lived in tunneled halls beneath a great, craggy hill. Visitors''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre -1, Com -2, Str +2, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik 0 Age: 33 Virtues and Flaws: Redcap; Dowsing, Wilderness Sense; Enduring Constitution, Great (Stamina), Strong-Willed; Low Self-Esteem; Compulsion (travel), Temperate; Mentor (leader of the Broken Branches); Poor Student, Social Handicap (independent) Personality Traits: Independent +3, Respectful +2, Loyal +2 Combat: Staff (thorny): Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +11, Damage +8 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, -2, -4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1-5), -2 (6-10), -4 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Athletics 3 (walking), Awareness 1, Bargain 4 (services), Brawl 3 (dodging), Carouse 2, Code of Hermes 2 (Redcaps), Dowsing 4 (water), Folk Ken 3, Great Weapon (staff) 5, Local Area Lore (geography) 5, Local Language 5 (directions), Order of Hermes Lore (covenants) 4, Ride 1, Speak Latin 5 (reading messages), Survival 5 (forest), Swim 2 (while burdened) Equipment: Ash wears a circular traveler’s cloak fashioned from rough cloth with several magical effects: it protects her from harsh elements (ReAqAuIg Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 requisites; +4 constant = Level 14), makes walking easier''
''by helping her avoid rough ground and snares (InHeTe Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite; +4 constant = Level 9). The cloak also mends any rips or tears it receives (CrHe Base 2, +2 Sun; +1 two uses per day, +3 activated by sunrise and sunset = Level 8). She carries a walking stick cut from ash, enchanted with Transformation of the Thorny Staff (MuHe Base 3, +2 Sun = Level 5), Shriek of the Impending Shafts (InHe Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing; +4 constant = Level 20) and a version of Intuition of the Forest that affects only her (InHe Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 2x/day = Level 5). Finally, she has a ring that disguises her voice and appearance when worn (MuIm Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +4 constant = Level 9). Appearance: Ash is a tall, thin woman who looks gaunt and emaciated but is actually wiry and quite tough. Her stub nose and long, narrow face do not go well together. She dresses like a pilgrim in a tunic and footless hose, and prefers to walk barefoot. Roleplaying Tips: Emphasize her pride, independence and toughness by holding your shoulders high and starting directly at people when they talk to you. Use your eyes to show what a suspicious and wary person she is. Let secret looks of disgust slip out when magi do something stupid. Keep your chin up and your neck elongated and tense when playing her, to mimic her startling slenderness.''

==Ash, a Redcap==


|}
''reported extravagant decorations, expensive tapestries, and so many magical devices that they hardly needed servants. 3+ (False): The tunnel in which the magi lived originally belonged to a great dragon, which the magi turned to stone. Their limitless wealth was taken from the dragon’s hoard. When their magic failed, the dragon awoke and reclaimed its lair. 6+ (True): The covenant took as its symbol the image of a broken crown surrounded in flames. It was located within a faerie forest, but the wizards did not get along with the faeries. Magi from Calebais used to boast that they were protected by a legendary magical bell, which made them invulnerable, and its powerful magic still remains. 6+ (False): In fact, killing faeries was how the covenant got most of its vis. Because of this, the magi were investigated and punished many times for repeatedly molesting and angering the fay. The faeries of that area are still extremely hostile and attack wizards on sight, so no one risks investigating the ruins. 9+ (True): Calebais was supposedly protected by a sort of magical veil, and though the covenant fell, the veil remains,''
''and prevents arcane investigation of the covenant. The magi also had a device called The Bell of Ibyn, a powerful artifact of mysterious origins, and claimed that because of it, no attack or intrusion could catch the magi unawares. 9+ (False): The veil was a powerful version of the spell Aegis of the Hearth, which the magi bragged they had somehow found a way to make permanent, though they would not reveal the details to outsiders. Magi speculate the veil is somehow tied to the Bell, which had been a church bell in a great city of the Holy Land. The magi brought it back from the First Crusade and enchanted it with powerful magic. 12+ (True): When word reached the tribunal that Calebais was no more, a triumvirate of Quaesitors went to investigate. They reported that the magi had fallen victim to a diabolical curse, and that the covenant was destroyed because of their great pride. In light of these events, their symbol of a broken crown in flames was seen to be particularly apt, having represented a fallen group of arrogant wizards. 12+ (False): The Quaesitors reported that demons served one of the custodes, who had been corrupted, and their infernal influence spread throughout the grogs until they had enough power to take over the covenant. Few of these evil creatures remain, but those that do often appear as ghosts of the former inhabitants, to better corrupt those who take an interest in the ruins. 15+ (True): Many of the magi of Calebais wore unusual gold wire crowns, which were magically tied to their legendary Bell and also had powers of their own. At the Tribunal where the investigating Quaesitors announced their findings, several magi took issue with their report, accusing them of hiding the truth. These accusations were grounded in the fact that the lead Quaesitor, Ornath, had been a member of Calebais only a year before, and had left under suspicious circumstances. 15+ (False): These Quaesitors had ties to a rival covenant, a source of a great many political machinations in the Tribunal, and that covenant was said to have engineered the ruin of Calebais. The Quaesitors were accused of having returned there to ensure their enemies were defeated, and to erase all evidence of their covenant’s involvement in its downfall. 18+ (True): The original founders of Calebais were punished by Tribunal for having aided rebels against the king, and it was in honor of their outrageous act that the covenant had adopted the symbol of a broken crown. Their rebellious nature was apparently carried on by tradition, because the magi were known not only for their bad relations with other covenants, but also for fighting bitterly amongst themselves. 18+ (False): Just before their destruction, the magi had been found to be dabbling in mundane politics again, assisting a rebel plot against the kingdom. This prompted other wiz''
''ards to take action by secretly advising members of the Church and sending agents to Calebais to prevent it. 21+ (True): Ornath, follower of Guernicus, left Calebais over a dispute for leadership of the covenant with another wizard, Crenvalus, follower of Tytalus. Though he joined another covenant, he was never accorded much respect, and was only allowed to act as lead Quaesitor for the investigation of Calebais because he had once lived there and knew how to pass the magical veil. Many wizards suspect that he was just as responsible for the covenant’s destruction as the others. 21+ (False): According to records they left after their deaths, Ornath and his two partners removed the Bell of Ibyn from Calebais, and spirited it away to either their home covenant or their domus magna in the Roman Tribunal. They left a fake in its place, which has none of the powers of the original, but which may contain clues for locating and reclaiming it.''
''If any of this information seems like the sort of trivia characters would have picked up at Tribunal meetings, from others in their House, or through their own research, you can simply tell it to them. The Redcap, if treated well, might tell what little she knows about Calebais, too. If the characters’ covenant is very far away, like in another Tribunal, you might apply a penalty to their total.''
''Magi or those characters with long association with the Order may have heard of magi who lived and studied at Calebais. You might divide the total from the previous roll by three and choose that many brief summaries from the list below, starting with any magi from their own House, and then concentrating on the top of the list or magi that you think would have probably come to their attention.''
''Ornath of Guernicus, Quaesitor: Left the covenant before it fell, making known his insurmountable and violent differences with the other magi, particularly Crenvalus; once led the wizards’ council at Calebais; led the investigation into the covenant’s fall. Granorda of Jerbiton: Known for her extensive practice of necromancy, and a passionate interest in Corpus; called “magister of death”; received little respect and even scorn from her House because of her unusual ideas. Crenvalus of Tytalus: Excelled at Rego, called the “magister of control” by those at Calebais; considered an idealist by others in his House; had a red fox as his familiar. Uderzus of Tremere: Referred to as the “magister of perception” for his accomplishments with Intellego and Imaginem; wielded a broken lance said to have divine powers; reclaimed his sigil when his master went into Final Twilight. Pitsdim of Flambeau: Belonged to the Ignem school of his House, was known as the “magister of flames” within the''
''covenant; hot-tempered; used a phoenix sigil at Tribunal; said to have gone mad after many Twilight experiences. Mormulus of Merinita: Eldest magus at Calebais; reclusive; credited with inventing a revolutionary version of The Shrouded Glen, called The Veil of Mormulus; known as the “magister of illusion”; excelled at Imaginem and Vim. Ierimyra of Bjornaer: Had an ermine heart-beast, indicating purity and nobility; highly educated; experimented with Animal and Mentem; called the “magister of beasts.” Drininkeana of Ex Miscellanea: Called the “magister of life” at Calebais; suspected of being descended from wizards of Diedne; particularly skilled with Creo and Herbam. Erechtheus of Mercere: “Magister of change”; had taken an unGifted apprentice. Ventus Gurges: “Magister of weather,” interested in elementals. Malevola Vida: “Magister of destruction.” Eonus: “Magister of the mind.”''
''Change this information or add details as you like, so that these characters fit your vision of Calebais and the Order of Hermes. Several of the magi have been left intentionally vague, even without Houses, so that you can use them as hooks for your saga.''

==The Redcap’s Message==

''When the wizards gather, the Redcap will explain that an old nun, who had once been a custos of Calebais, gave her a letter for them. She said that the last magus at Calebais wrote it just before its end, and the nun took it with her when fleeing the covenant. It reveals the fact that one may pass the veil that protects Calebais, and describes the Bell of Ibyn, their greatest treasure. She has kept the letter hidden all these years, but recent events have made her decide to come forward. Her position at the convent would be compromised if her sisters knew of her history with the Order, so she asked the Redcap to keep her name and location secret. (The Redcap agreed, and will not yield to the characters’ curiosity out of professional pride.)''
''Through her contacts among the Cistercians, the nun has learned that the village closest to Calebais was recently the scene of a terrible event, which could have wider-ranging consequences. A respected man of the community was found dead in the nearby forest, gored to death as if impaled on the horns of some wild beast. His daughter, too, is missing, and presumed dead. This is not the first mysterious attack of this nature, and the villagers are convinced that there is great evil in the forest — demons, they say, born in the pagan ruins that lie within the enchanted woods. Villagers are clamoring for the king’s representative to gather his men and search the forest, to hunt these creatures down and destroy them.''
''The nun fears that this situation could have dire consequences for the Order of Hermes. She believes that these attacks were caused — directly or indirectly — by Calebais, and that if the authorities were to investigate the area, they would discover evidence of the Order and hold them responsible for the attacks. This could turn their wrath upon other local magi, and perhaps worse — the abbot of the nearby monastery has distant ties to the Pope, and could bring the power of the see of Rome to bear. Someone must act to see that the mystery of these attacks is solved without involving Calebais, or at least ensure that there is nothing there to implicate the Order. If nothing else, this may be the last chance for anyone to rescue some of the lost treasures of the covenant before they are destroyed.''
''After providing this background, the Redcap produces the letter. It has been kept inside a leather case all these years, and she has not yet read it. The nun told her to say that it is only part of the letter, but it is all she has, and that it was written by a magus''
''named Crenvalus of Tytalus. It is torn in many places, especially across the bottom where it was ripped in half, but it is still legible. The penmanship is of very poor quality, and those who examine it carefully may conclude that it was written in a hurry. If no one objects, she will read it aloud. (See the insert.)''
''The nun may have an exaggerated idea of the danger, and it may be very unlikely that any of these events will come to pass. The promise of worthwhile treasure and a unique challenge could be enough to convince the magi to investigate. However, the events in the village may help draw the characters into the medieval landscape that surrounds the former covenant, and explain some of the rumors that they have heard, or will hear, about what lies in the ruins. Solving the mystery of the village is an excellent opportunity for the characters to start off on a good footing with the nuns in Chapter Three, assuming the story brings them to that conclusion, as their reputation will probably precede them.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Why does the Redcap bring the message to these characters, rather than to the magi at some other covenant? This question may puzzle the players, as they are not likely to be the most powerful wizards in their Tribunal, and even if they have a good reputation, it is unlikely that the nun would have heard of them. Here are some plausible reasons to explain why the characters were chosen.''
''I. Ash doesn’t like other magi in the Tribunal. She recommended the characters because she knows very little about them but hopes that they will prove better than others.''
''II. One of the characters might remind Ash of her brother, or once knew him, and she has decided to give that character this opportunity in his memory.''
''III. The characters’ covenant is closest to Calebais or the convent. Or, Ash wants to snub those who are closest by bringing in outsiders. This may in time give the covenant new enemies.''
''IV. A character might be descended from one of the magi at Calebais; perhaps one of the wizards trained an apprentice from whom a character is descended. The nun might have asked the Redcap to track down the character as a sort of inheritance. Or''
''perhaps the nun had a child of her own, before or immediately after she fled the covenant, and has now learned the location of her grandchild.''
''V. Perhaps the Redcap has a fondness for a particular House, to which one of the characters belongs. Or, knowing that the letter is from a magus of House Tytalus, she decided it would be most appropriate to give it to another Tytalus.''
''VI. It is a favor, and the Redcap will expect a favor in return. In fact, there is something that the characters are uniquely able to provide her.''
''VII. The Redcap selected a covenant at random from those within the Tribunal. The characters are her lucky winners. If they aren’t interested in investigating, she’ll take the letter somewhere else. Perhaps she is even taking it to each covenant in turn, and the characters must hurry if they wish to act on the information before other covenants get involved.''
''VIII. The Redcap has a very good reason, maybe one of the ones on this list, but isn’t telling. This mystery may intrigue the characters on its own.''

==Why the Characters?==


|}

=The Village=

''As explained in the introduction, this settlement can be placed in many different parts of Mythic Europe, as appropriate to your saga. There are, however, a few features of the village that should remain constant wherever it is located, and encounters involving those areas are described below.''

==The Abbey==

''One of the sacred duties of monasteries is the charity of giving travelers a meal and a bed, and the characters are probably aware of this, as it is a common feature of medieval life. However, depending on how common Cistercian abbeys are in their region, they may not be aware of their unusual restrictions regarding women. Bluntly, the general consensus among Cistercian monks is “if you allow a woman through the door, the devil will come in through the window.” Only in unique circum''
''stances would a woman be allowed past the walls: say, the Queen of the Realm wished to attend Mass. Even then, the abbot would suffer a harsh penance — at the very least, he and all the monks would have to fast for several days — and if he were held personally responsible for this terrible event, he could quite possibly lose his position.''
''Another rule of Cistercian abbeys is that they are forbidden to give hospitality or provision to warriors. If a suspicious group of characters arrives at the gate bearing obvious arms and armor, they will likely be turned away by the porter without even sending for the hostilar. Accidents and violence have been known to happen in guest-houses, which are typically rowdy places when there are many travelers, and monks have learned to be cautious. This stricture will probably be applied whenever the porter feels threatened, such as if he speaks to someone with The Gift, or if (heaven forbid!) a magus with the Blatant Gift tries to enter.''
''If the characters travel to the village with Ash, she will make them aware of these facts before they leave the covenant, so that they can prepare disguises or make other plans. She suggests they look for lodging in the village, but that they prepare a plau''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Sodales,''
''I have a sad tale to tell. Calebais is no more. It has been destroyed. Heed well my warning, if you desire to avoid our fate, for I write to you from my grave. Perilous was the devil that beset us, but his embrace was not inevitable. Learn from our mistakes in dealing with this evil that covered our eyes and took hold of our hearts.''
''Mormulus’s Veil was the beginning of our end. It was the means to bring peace to Calebais and those who lived within, but after all else, it was that which destroyed us. Though it had no power to harm of itself, it is what allowed the demon to strike, and when it finally usurped the Code of Hermes, our seduction was complete.''
''I beg of you, my friends, beware the pride that holds your souls captive. This sickness will destroy you as surely as it destroyed us. Be strong; unite, and bond together. Do this lest you also be beset by the curse that fell upon us.''
''If you think you can atone for our great sin, retrieve our great Bell of Ibyn. This device of warning served Calebais since its founding, though it could not prevent the evil that penetrated our deepest thoughts. Yet our fabulous treasure''
''may protect you against danger from without, as it did us, if you are already safeguarded against danger from within.''
''To reach the Bell, you must first pass through Mormulus’s Veil. This can be done if you find the dryad who lives upon the hill. The twelve guides will lead you to her if you follow them in the correct order. The thief in red is first, followed by one who crawls through the air, one who crawls upon the earth, one who—''
''The letter ends abruptly, where it has been torn away.''
''The Redcap has been given simple instructions for reaching the covenant from the nearby village, to which she can easily direct the characters. From there they must approach Two Crag Hill from the south through the woods, and will soon come to a marker left by the magi that will tell them what to do next. She will convey this information and leave them to make their own way, or else she will agree to lead them to the village if they make it worth her while. She will not accompany them to the covenant under any circumstances, as she believes it is far too dangerous for her.''

==The Letter from Crenvalus==


|}
''sible story for why they are traveling: nobility returning to their lands from other holdings, pious Christians on a pilgrimage, or perhaps craftsfolk traveling to a fair.''
''A detailed description of the abbey is not necessary, since the characters are unlikely to spend much time there. If they stay within, they sleep in the guest house and eat apart from the monks, and while they might visit the church to pray, they have little interaction with the brothers apart from the one who sees to their needs. If you find you need a better idea of the layout and buildings of a medieval abbey, there is more information in Chapter Three.''
''If any of the characters have positive reputations or important titles, they may be invited to dine with the abbot, Father Eric. He is a gregarious, easy man of aristocratic bearing but disarming manner, with no obvious vices. It is easy to see that the monks are very loyal to him, for he is confident and self-assured, and genuinely cares for his charges. He lives a stark and humble life for one of his high position, and sets a good example for his brethren. He may be curious about the characters, and speculate that they have come to join the search for the missing woman, of which he thinks very little. He can tell them a few facts about Sir Gilbert, a knight-errant who arrived recently and twice attended Mass, who aims to slay a dragon he believes to live in the wood. The abbot may also describe his side of the growing conflict between him and the reeve over the incident in the forest.''
''If the characters have any means of drawing out the brothers, who are supposed to be silent unless need or politeness demands and will avoid the characters as much as possible, they may learn some of this same information. For example, the hostilar might be persuaded to gossip a little about the conflict while seeing to their needs if the characters bring him interesting news from more distant places. He may also mention the young man, who was injured in the forest and is staying in the infirmary, but the monks have done all for him that can be done, and they will not allow the characters to see him without permission from the abbot. His story is described in the village background below; all he remembers is that his lover wanted to leave him, and the sound of a great bell in the forest.''

==The Reeve==

''The village is not particularly large, and the wealthiest family is that of Stephen, the reeve. He lives on the other side of the river and closer to the wood in a large, well-built house. Stephen believes that the recent events in the forest bode ill for the village, and hopes to play the politics of the situation well enough to recapture some of the influence that he has lost to the abbot over the last decade. His visit with his lord did not go as well as he had''
''hoped, for he has been ordered to investigate further before he will be sent more men, and Stephen has no idea where to begin. He has lied and said that reinforcements will be arriving soon, to calm the fears of those in the village, and may be very grateful that the characters have arrived, perhaps even pretending that he expected them. He will gladly escort them to the forest and the place where the dead man was found, if they take an interest.''
''The reeve’s wife, Matilda, is proud of their station and eager to welcome guests into her home, so long as they do not seem dangerous or threatening. Magi, warriors and grogs will be allowed to sleep in their hay-shed while more distinguished guests sleep on comfortable pallets on the floor by the fire. If encouraged, Matilda will tell the characters more than they want to know about the surrounding area and the recent events of the village, though she will not speak highly of the monks or the monastery.''
''Characters with The Gift will have great difficulty in the village, for few people will speak with them, and they will be regarded with distrust wherever they go. Stephen is desperate enough to overcome his instinctive revulsion at working with such unpleasant company, but he will hate himself for it and will share none of the credit with them. If they succeed in resolving the mystery of the missing girl without help from more palatable companions, they will be thanked and quickly seen on their way. Obviously, characters with the Blatant Gift will be utterly unwelcome, driven off and watched for in case they should return.''

==Background: The Village==

''The characters may learn from the monks or the people of the village some or all of the details of what happened in the woods, described here. The story has likely grown with the telling, so freely exaggerate the aspects of the tale that seem like they will capture the players’ imaginations.''
''A young couple of the village had been courting in the months previous, often taking long, scandalous walks together in the surrounding woods, and their relations became far more intimate than the girl’s father liked. She had a wild, fighting spirit, with no head for business, but the boy was sensible and hard-working, apprenticed to the village carpenter and with a good future. Something about these woods inflamed their passions, and led them into sin and wickedness they never should have discovered. It became apparent that the girl was with child, and when confronted with this by her father, she fled the household. He suspected she would go to the young man, and followed him into the woods the next day. He told his wife that he would convince them to marry, as they must.''
''What happened next is not clear, though certainly they all met in the woods. The boy was injured, beaten senseless, and a head injury has destroyed his memories of the event. The father was found dead with a great wound in his chest, as from a sharp horn, and many bruises. Tracks suggested he had been attacked by a group of wild animals, though it was whispered that such animals must have walked on two legs with goat-feet. It is likely the girl had been there as well, for a strip of cloth torn from her garments was found near the men. No other trace of her has been found since, either in the forest or in the surrounding villages.''
''The boy would gladly accept his responsibilities and marry the girl once he recovers, but he fears she will not have him, for she had said on that terrible day that she planned to leave him. The troubles that now consume his waking hours stem from his concern for her safety. He can remember nothing else of what occurred except for one inexplicable image: he thought he heard the jarring sound of a bell, an awful sound, tolling far in the distance but still loud enough to be heard clearly. The broken tone of the bell occupies his dreams and fills his thoughts with guilt and remorse.''
''The abbot maintains that the girl has been lost, fled from her wanton actions and hidden somewhere far away, to atone for her sins and bear the child. He regards the death as a terrible accident, and wishes to discourage fearful rumors of demonic creatures marauding in the surrounding region. He is very angry with the reeve for frightening the villagers and attempting to mobilize his lord’s men, and views these actions as a challenge to his leadership. The reeve, in turn, believes that the abbot wants the young couple too harshly punished for their sinful actions (which are quite understandable to the common people), and is using this event as an example to the community for the consequences of sin, rather than taking any interest in what happened or giving any thought to the girl.''
''The villagers, including the reeve, have long known that there is a great evil hidden in the forest, and see this event as its return brought about by the dark times in which they live. They know there are areas of the wood that cannot be penetrated, and a particular clearing where strange visions of talking animals and other wicked things plague those who stray there. Beyond is a place of great strife and battle in years past, where flames and screams were heard day and night, accompanied by the clanging sound of a great iron being struck. Foresters have occasionally seen shaggy, bestial devil-men running in the distance in that same area. Wilder legends brought forth with strong drink tell of a sleeping dragon on Two Crag Hill, who long ago stole and devoured many of their people. With all these forces arrayed against them, it is no wonder the villagers are frightened, and do not know who will have the strength to protect them, the abbot or their lord.''

=The Wood=

''Most of the forest on the outskirts of the village has a Faerie aura of 2. A significant portion of the area also has a Faerie regio, which is unusual in that it is impossible to accidentally stumble into it. That is, unless the characters suspect a regio, they will not find it. Its strength varies from level 3 to level 5. It covers three territories, each occupying a different section of the forest: Satyr Hollow (Faerie 3), the Veil (Faerie 4), and Dryad Grove (Faerie 5). These areas are outlined in more detail below''
''Characters with exceptional hunting abilities may be able to find signs of the struggle, if the reeve shows them where the body lay. As several weeks have passed, a Perception + Hunt roll of 15+ is needed to find any clue, which only provides a direction to follow, and a 21+ to perceive that the trail leads a little way through the woods and ends abruptly at the edge of the regio, near the satyrs’ hollow.''
''At the edge of the meadow, near Sir Gilbert’s camp, is a stone marker. If the characters wait there, an illusory guide will come forward and beckon them to follow. It leads them into the Veil, a confusing part of the regio that is not easy to leave. From there,''
''the characters may also find their way into the dryad’s grove, another level that overlaps the covenant site.''
''If the characters have any cause to suspect a regio, magic may reveal the edges of it. Intellego Vim spells allow them to step directly into the faerie woods, while Virtues like Second Sight may let them see the boundary. Intellego spells that tell about the nature of the forest may also give them an idea that something is unusual. These methods might allow the characters to reach the satyr’s valley, or enter the Veil from somewhere other than the marker.''

==Satyr Hollow==

''Near the place where the man was killed is the entrance to Satyr Hollow, where a small number of the goat-footed creatures of ancient myth still live in a free, comfortable band. Here they run at will through the forest, brawl with each other in sport, or nap under the trees while listening to their faerie pipes. They embody every kind of masculine leisure in the wild. The characters will be greeted by several surprised satyrs when they first arrive in the regio, who may abruptly challenge them to a wrestling match or invite them to accompany their hunt, as if this were the most natural thing in the world.''
''If the characters are threatening (have drawn weapons, for example) the satyrs may circle warily, pointing thick javelins at them and demanding to know their business. The creatures are not averse to a fight, as they haven’t had a good one in some time, but their numbers are waning and they fear unnecessary casualties. They would rather talk, but if the players want a battle it is easy to give them one here.''
''If the characters are easygoing and friendly, they will be offered wine and fruit. The satyrs have no leader, so this is more along the lines of one or two of them holding up their wineskins or gesturing to the drying figs on flat rocks. They will start to drink, carouse, and generally make merry, which may encourage the characters to join them. Characters with some knowledge of Faerie Lore may recognize this as dangerous, and you should warn characters with Common Sense that accepting food or drink from the fay is a bad idea.''
''The aura here is Faerie 3.''

===The Satyrs===

''These satyrs spend much of their days hunting, chasing down faerie stags for sport, engaging in contests to see who can put''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Faerie Might: 22 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int -1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +4, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: +1 Personality Traits: Lusty +5, Hasty +2 Combat: Kick (non-lethal): Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +7 Horn and Kick: Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +11 Javelin: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +9, Damage +8 Javelin (thrown): Init +0, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +10 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-6), -3 (7-12), -5 (13-18), Incapacitated (19-24) Abilities: Athletics 2 (dancing), Awareness 2, Brawling 5 (wrestling), Carouse 6, Charm 2 (taking liberties), Guile 3 (women), Hunt 3 (tracking), Local Language 3, Music 3 (flute), Single Weapon 4 (javelin), Survival 2, Thrown Weapon 3 (javelin) Powers: Enrage, 2 points, +0, Mentem: Satyrs can play wild, violent music, giving those who hear it +3 on Attack, Damage and Brave totals for the rest of the scene. Revelry, 2 points, +0, Mentem: Satyr dancing music makes listeners more riotous and merry, increasing Personality traits like Reckless, Lustful, and Impulsive by 3 for the rest of the scene. Vis: 2 Corpus in each horn Appearance: Faerie satyrs are rugged, wild men with two sharp horns in their foreheads and goat’s legs and hooves. They are very hairy, their whole bodies covered in short, dark fur, and they often sport scraggly beards. They are also a little larger than normal men. In spite of all this, they are still very attractive in a wild, virile way, for they embody pure masculinity in everything they do.''

==Satyrs==


|}
''the most javelins into the neck of the beast without killing it, and so on. They do not eat meat, and they believe it dishonorable to kill unless their opponent kills one of them first. Incredibly lusty, these wild creatures live for the hunt and other earthly pleasures. In battle, they fight with horns and hooves simultaneously, hurling themselves at their enemies with dreadful force.''
''The eldest satyr, who will introduce himself as Boch, will quietly make the characters’ acquaintance and take them aside once they have gotten comfortable. Older and wiser, he speaks the language much better than the others and bluntly asks the characters their business. If necessary, he will facilitate this discussion by playing a drowsy song on his pipes to calm down the rest after they have finished posturing for the newcomers. He assumes the characters have come here looking for the girl, and wants to head off a war without arousing the others’ suspicions.''
''He will admit that she is here if they ask after her, but explains that she is “needed,” and that she is their “wife.” He can tell the story of how they captured her and what happened during the conflict, and may explain what he can remember about the arrangement with the dryad, mentioned below, if the characters negotiate. If they insist on seeing her, he will take them to her, but cautions that the others are extremely protective of her, and that in any case she cannot leave, for she “belongs with us now.”''

===Background: Satyr Hollow===

''These half-men, half-beasts have captured the young woman and set her up as sort of a communal wife. She has shelter that they built for her further along the valley, where she lives apart from them. They visit her when they are feeling lonely, and otherwise see that she is comfortable by bringing her food and drink and warm bedding. At first she did not go willingly into this arrangement, and the fauns were forced to harm both her protector and another who tried to stop them. She has since come to appreciate the influence she has over the creatures, though, for they listen to her and do what she asks, and she is free from the arduous responsibilities that were often imposed upon her at home. This seems to her the perfect place to bear and raise her baby, which will probably be at least part satyr because of the nature of the place.''
''Before the magi of Calebais set up their magical Veil, the satyrs had a similar arrangement with the dryad who lives in the forest, whereby they would visit her when they wanted company, which suited both parties very well. However, recently (that is, within the last fifty years) she has gone missing. This is dangerous for the fauns; they have become much more aggressive and violent, occasionally staging raids on the covenant by drinking their faerie wine until they are intoxicated and berserk, which''
''makes it possible for them to run through the Veil without losing their way or being misled by the illusions. They are searching for the dryad, but they never find her (their wine prevents them from seeing illusions, including her), and they have become convinced she is held captive at Calebais. Many of their number have been lost in battle with the strange creatures that live there, and they now have a long-standing grudge that they periodically renew in spite of the danger. Simply put, they are dying out.''
''Boch suggested that the satyrs capture a wife from the village, as payment for the dryad stolen from them. The fauns dislike the Dominion, but they saw the girl in the forest several times from a distance, and after a few fights to establish dominance, one of the younger satyrs decided to take her. Resolved, he and several others in his hunting party interrupted an angry confrontation between her father and her lover, and the two men attacked the fauns. It was not much of a fight, but one of the satyrs was killed, and so they killed one of the humans in their own form of primitive justice, taking their new bride and their fallen brother with them. Boch regrets this, and will do what he can to help the characters as long as no more blood must be shed.''
''The woman has drunk their faerie wine and eaten their faerie fruit, both of which have strange effects. Firstly, they accentuate independence and heighten reckless, lustful behavior. Secondly, they inspire a sort of temporary battle-madness, making one less susceptible to trickery and illusion and more inclined to fight. Finally, and most importantly, they prevent mortals from leaving the regio for a whole year. If any of the characters eats or drinks from the satyrs’ stores, they too will be affected in this way; they can visit the dryad’s palace, the Veil, and the surrounding forest, in fact anywhere within the regiones, but when they try to walk towards the village or follow the dryad into the covenant, they will simply wind up back where they started. Emphasize that the curse feels as if one’s blood is racing, like running faster, or like one is “more awake” — this may later help the players piece together how to break the curse.''
''If the characters somehow manage to rescue the girl, even against her will, the satyrs will feel tricked and angry, perhaps angry enough to attack the village. The characters must realize that this will not address the essential problem, and Boch will do his best to explain this. Sooner or later the fauns will capture someone else, or else they will all be killed off in war with the Hrools, the village, or the characters. If this happens, the region will suffer a terrible affliction, causing all of the animals to weaken and die within a month. In fact, the characters might have seen early signs of this among the villagers’ livestock. This could cause unpleasant consequences for the characters as the villagers might come to associate this pestilence with their passing through the area.''
''Note that Sir Gilbert (below), if he is with the characters, will be very hostile to the satyrs. They look like devils to him. Luc, too, will be frightened and urge Sir Gilbert to attack or at least retreat to the relatively safer ground of their camp. The satyrs have seen the knight and his men, but have avoided them because they do not think they fight fairly, with a horse to run for them and men with harp-strings that throw javelins. They will avoid this battle if they can.''

==Sir Gilbert’s Camp==

''In the meadow just below Two Crag Hill, the characters will meet a knight-errant, his trusted adviser, and his servants, from whom they can gain information about the magic protecting Calebais. These characters might be used later in your saga as occasional visitors to the covenant if they wind up being friends, or as periodic hindrances if they become enemies. They could even be incorporated into the game as companion characters, if you are just beginning and have players who would be interested in them.''
''During the day, this clearing should give the characters their first glimpse of the famous crags at the top of the hill that marks the location of the covenant. If the sky is clear, the peaks show up hazily against the sky on the horizon like a ghostly gate to another world. A colorful tent striped with red and blue has been erected at the center of the large, open field dotted with wildflowers. A red pennant with a rampant golden griffon flies from the central post, and colored ribbons dangle from the supporting ropes. Tied to one side is the knight’s huge warhorse, picketed with the rest of the mounts. His many retainers are spread throughout the clearing, cleaning and cooking, while others may be out hunting in the surrounding woods.''
''If the characters arrive at night, only one man is hunched over the embers of the fire, his head nodding with fatigue.''
''This is a much flashier tent than most knights would use in the field, but Sir Gilbert is a flashy knight. Or rather, knight-errant; Sir Gilbert owes no allegiance to an overlord, but also has no land. He does have a horse and arms, and so he is doing his best to make a name for himself as a hero. His current project is to slay the dragon which he has heard lives atop the hill, but so far he has been unable to penetrate the enchantment surrounding it. When the characters meet him, they have the chance to gain valuable information and assistance, but if they prefer a fight they will have little to show for it.''

===Sir Gilbert===

''Like most knights, Sir Gilbert is well-trained and well-armed. He wears chain mail, carries a sword and shield, and will mount his horse and charge with a lance if he gets the opportunity. In many ways he is a gentle and kind man, though still bold and brash, and his servants are particularly loyal for this reason. He is afraid of nothing, even wizards, and so fear will not temper his attitude towards unusual strangers. He will find The Gift distasteful in close quarters, however, and will deal with magi as little as possible.''
''Closely followed by his stubbly beard, his holy sword is his most prized possession. It contains the knucklebone of St. Augustus built into its hilt below the leather straps. This relic gives the sword the following powers:''
''I. Sir Gilbert has a divinely based magic resistance of +30.''
''II. Three times per day, he can use a point of Faith like Confidence, as long as it serves a good purpose.''
''III. The first time each day Sir Gilbert prays for aid, you should consider whether he might receive a miracle. Miracles like these are subtle, and may seem like luck or a coincidence to those with no faith.''
''IV. Saint Augustus was an abbot known for finding lost relics, and he may lend his influence when Sir Gilbert prays for guidance; for example, he might send the knight a vision of what he seeks in a dream.''
''Sir Gilbert is careful to show deference to God, despite his bravery. Each week he returns to the abbey to confess his sins and hear Mass, and he sets aside time every night to pray and give thanks for his blessings. This sort of behavior may grate on wizards’ nerves, but as he believes himself tolerant of their eccentricities, he will be very offended if they do not show him similar courtesy. Insulting his faith or the Church is one of the few ways characters can make him angry enough to attack them.''

===Luc===

''Luc is Sir Gilbert’s personal and spiritual guide, an old friend of his family who has taken it upon himself to protect the knight from the intangible dangers of the world. He has much academic and arcane knowledge that he has learned from study and experience, and he doesn’t have a great deal of pragmatism. Luc speaks four languages passably well, including Latin, but he is not as comfortable talking as he is listening, a quirk left over from living in silence as a hermit for seven years.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Characteristics: Int -1, Per -3, Pre 0, Com +2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Age: 25 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Knight; Lesser Immunity (fear), Relic (x3); Pious; Humble; Visions Personality Traits: Brave +5, Friendly +2, Honorable +2, Wise -1 Reputations: Brave knight 3 (local area), Pious 2 (local churches) Combat: Long Sword and Heater Shield: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +14, Damage +11 Long Sword and Heater Shield (mounted): Init +3, Attack +14, Defense +17, Damage +11 Lance and Heater Shield (mounted): Init +4, Attack +13, Defense +17, Damage +12 Soak: +14 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Athletics 2 (climbing), Carouse 1 (staying sober), Charm 4 (gentlefolk), Folk Ken 3 (motivations), Great''
''Weapon 5 (lance), Leadership 3 (small groups), Local Language 5 (straight talk), Magic Lore 2 (creatures), Ride 4 (combat), Single Weapon 5 (long sword) Equipment: Full chain mail, helmet, heater shield, holy long sword Encumbrance: 0 (3) Appearance: Sir Gilbert is a large, burly man who appears slightly unkempt, his hair mussed and his beard slightly untrimmed. He nevertheless has polite manners despite his unrestrained demeanor. He is tall with blue, childlike eyes and straw-colored hair. Roleplaying Tips: Imagine a friendly, slightly overbearing country sheriff; strap on a sword, and you have Sir Gilbert. He is pleasant company, very good in a fight, and yet still strangely humble. He is pious, but he is also good-naturedly tolerant of things that are strange to him. The characters should find they like him, even if they would normally be at odds with such a figure. Though he is something of a caricature, try to roleplay him as honestly as you can.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +1, Com -2, Str -3, Sta -2, Dex +2, Qik -2 Age: 50 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Educated, Student of Infernal, Student of Magic; Noncombatant, Vow (celibacy); Close Family Ties, Social Handicap (poor speaker) Personality Traits: Loyal +2, Skeptical +2, Humble -1 Combat: Dodge: Init -2, Attack +2, Defense -2, Damage -3 Soak: -2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Area Lore 5 (politics), Artes Liberales 5 (rhetoric), Bargain 2 (books), Chirurgy 2 (setting bones), Church Lore 6 (politics), Concentration 6 (reading), Folk Ken 4 (nobles), Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Intrigue 3 (subterfuge), Latin 3''
''(written word), Local Language 6 (comprehension), Another Language 3 (heard), Another Language 2 (heard), Magic Lore 3 (legends), Philosophiae 4 (animals), Ride 1 (travel), Teaching 2 (pious students), Theology 3 (biblical passages) Appearance: Luc is a gaunt, balding, white-haired man with a great deal more spryness to his step than his years would suggest. His aquiline nose and bushy eyebrows give him the appearance of a formidable and impressive personage. Only his gentle eyes and soft but firm voice suggest his years of quiet meditative study. He wears a pendant necklace from which he seems to draw much of his strength of will. Roleplaying Tips: Play up his pomposity and sense of self-importance by harrumphing after characters say something. Make sharp but contained hand gestures and nervously finger your imaginary pendant. Don’t overdo the negative aspects of his personality; at heart, he is a good man.''

==Sir Gilbert==


==Luc, Sir Gilbert’s Adviser==


|}
''He loves to be in charge, yet has very strong religious beliefs and a strong desire to do right. If his authority is challenged he will never willingly back down, but if his need for respect is appeased, he is quite easy to deal with and can be quite charming. He carries a bronze pendant, which he has been told contains a sliver of the True Cross. He clutches it when he is afraid, and fingers it when he is unsure. It is probably a fake, but he draws spiritual strength from it anyway.''
''Luc will intensely distrust characters with The Gift. If Sir Gilbert seems too friendly with them, Luc will compensate with extreme hostility. He will assume the magi have somehow enchanted his lord, and take steps to remove him from their influence if he determines it to be necessary.''
''If questioned about his personal interest in the ruins of Calebais, he will speak of secrets to be found “in the hill,” secrets about which he admits he knows nothing. If he begins to trust the characters, he''
''will tell them about a story he heard of an evil spirit that lived under the hill, who plotted against the king. He would like to guide Sir Gilbert to fight and defeat such a base enemy.''

===Paul===

''In many ways, Paul is a perfect squire for a great knight: he is diligent, clever, and knows how to mimic the behavior of his master. However, he is also young and inexperienced, and likely to break into conversation at inappropriate times. He can be rather awkward with social graces. He will probably never become a knight; his aptitudes are much more directed towards being a man of the cloth. Paul also admires Luc, whom he serves nearly as much as Sir Gilbert. Fighting doesn’t really appeal to him, though; he will only fight to protect his lord.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com -1, Str +1, Sta +2 Dex 0, Qik +1 Age: 15 Virtues and Flaws: Custos; Carefree Personality Traits: Excited +3, Servile +2, Brave -2 Combat: Long Sword and Heater Shield: Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +12, Damage +9 Soak: +14 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Awareness 3 (watching), Athletics 3 (lifting), Brawl 1 (wrestling), Church Lore 2''
''(politics), Folk Ken 3 (anticipating needs), Latin 1 (formal), Local Language 5 (formal), Ride 1 (long distances), Single Weapon 3 (long sword) Equipment: Chain hauberk, heater shield, long sword. Encumbrance: 2 (3) Appearance: Paul is a competent young man, not yet sixteen with black curly hair. He tries to be the consummate squire, and is both obsequious and enthusiastic. Roleplaying Tips: Overdo the servility and use your “courtly graces” as much as you can. Try so hard to please others, even when the occasion does not call for it, that you make a mess of things.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1 Dex +1, Qik 0 Personality Traits: Brave +1, Loyal +1 Combat: Long spear: Init -2, Attack +7, Defense +9, Damage +7 Crossbow: Init -5, Attack +8, Defense +2, Damage +10 Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Awareness 4 (searching), Bows 3 (crossbow), Carouse 2 (camping), Great Weapon 4 (spear), Hunt 5 (tracking), Survival 3 (woods) Equipment: Full leather armor, helmet, long spear, crossbow Encumbrance: 2 (3)''

==Paul, Sir Gilbert’s Squire==


==Sir Gilbert’s Men==


|}

===Sir Gilbert’s Men===

''These are trained foresters and huntsmen, but they will be very afraid of characters with The Gift. They will express their fear through tense anger and hostility, but they will not strike a blow without Sir Gilbert’s or Luc’s command. They are armed with spears or crossbows and wear leather armor. When fighting together, they will form a double rank and fire on alternate rounds, but raise their spears to meet a charge.''
''The men standing guard will stare openmouthed when they see the characters approach, because their camp has not been disturbed since they arrived. Eventually Paul, the squire, will call to Luc, the adviser, who is inside Sir Gilbert’s tent. At first, only Luc will emerge because Sir Gilbert is busy praying (or is asleep), but he will soon rouse his master when he sees the approaching party for himself, most likely to inform him that a veritable army has descended upon them, if there are more than a few armed characters.''
''Sir Gilbert will be friendly to strangers, for the most part. He treats visitors as if they were old friends, come to have a cup of wine and a bit of a talk (though this attitude doesn’t extend to obvious servants, bandits, wizards, or peasants). He will be astonished if there are noblewomen in the group, and will immediately inquire after their health, their comfort, and what brings them into this dangerous wilderness. He will be very interested in the purpose of the party, and will be intrigued (though wary) if he learns that they are magi.''
''While Sir Gilbert speaks, Luc will remain at his side, intent that the kind-hearted knight will not be tricked. If he senses The Gift, he will expect deceit and villainy from them. Nevertheless, he is still curious about the knowledge that legendary figures like wizards might possess, and as Sir Gilbert is seeking a dragon, he will attempt to tease any information from the characters that might aid his lord.''
''Sir Gilbert will openly reveal his purpose and tell what he has learned if he judges the characters to be good people; that is, if they are respectful and courteous, have obvious gentlefolk among them, appear wealthy, or seem like honorable allies. He will reluctantly agree to work with magi so long as they promise to leave the dragon to him, and may invite non-magi to accompany him on his expedition if Luc doesn’t object too strongly.''

===Background: Sir Gilbert’s Camp===

''Through diligent prayer and two weeks’ worth of experience within the forest, Sir Gilbert has learned valuable information about the Veil. He will share it in pleasant company over a meal''
''or a few cups of drink. His demeanor is expansive among gentlemen; solicitous and speculative with ladies; and distant to servants, grogs, or those with an unpleasant aura about them.''
''I. The dragon surely lives within the hill, for though no one has seen it for many years, he has witnessed black clouds of smoke, and was awoken once by the booming sound of flames exploding up from the hill like a volcano, lighting the night sky for miles. II. The woods are perilous, for several times he has gotten lost in them for hours, even with the strange guides that appear to lead him, for they do not take him anywhere that he can find again without their help. Once he managed to return to the campsite by following a white dove, which he believes was sent by God. III. He thinks that to reach the hill, the guides must be followed in a specific order, and he has had four dreams in which he followed one: a fox, a spider, a snake, and a squirrel. He believes this is the order in which they must be followed. If he keeps at it long enough, he thinks he will discover the proper sequence. He has faith in the truth of his dreams, but will be pleased if the characters confirm his discovery with their letter. (The letter will make Luc very suspicious, though, and he will certainly ask to read it himself.) IV. A stone pylon, inscribed with arcane symbols and weathered runes, stands on the slope nearby. Luc has managed to translate some of the message, but none of it meant much to Sir Gilbert, and he doesn’t remember any of it except for one phrase, “the kiss of fire,” because that sounds like dragon’s breath to him. (Luc translated “Calebais” as “cali[dum] bas[ium].”) V. There are other strange creatures in the forest. His men have heard large animals, and one claims to have glimpsed a shaggy man with goat’s feet. Sir Gilbert thinks he saw something himself one evening when he was returning from the Veil. What he saw looked more like a group of large weasels, one of them standing on its hind legs to smell the''
''air. He stared at them, blinked from weariness, and they were gone. Sir Gilbert will not tell this story unless they have been talking for a long while, because it seems foolish to him. VI. There has been no sign of the missing woman. His opinion is that the girl is still alive, for he heard that she had good reason to get married, and that her father had taken the soon-to-be husband out to the forest to teach him a lesson. Perhaps it was the young man who killed her father, inventing a story about demons for protection, and driving the girl into hiding. Instead of searching the forest, he thinks the king’s men should be searching the cloisters. He has not visited the site, but believes the reeve is embellishing the story for his own reasons.''

==The Marker==

''At the edge of the southern slope of the hill, just outside of the regio, is a stone pylon about nine feet high. Sir Gilbert, if he is with them, will bring the characters over to see it, since Luc could not understand all of what it says. It is worn and ruinous,''
''and looks like an ancient artifact of a bygone age. At the top is carved a broken crown and three flames, which characters might recognize as the symbol of Calebais. Weathered inscriptions may be read on each of its four sides (a Perception + Speak Latin roll will give an idea of how much the characters can make out, with a 6+ producing a few words and a 12+ yielding at least the substance of the entire message).''
''If characters wait beside the marker, one of the guides will eventually approach and beckon them into the regio (see The Veil, below).''

===Background: The Marker===

''When the covenant was active, those who were not welcome and became lost in the regio would eventually be hunted down. Before the Sundering, those who waited at the marker would be perceived through a magic mirror (see page 48), and someone would be sent to show them the way through. The newer effect that Mormulus added to his Veil, preventing Intellego Imaginem magic, made the mirror cease to function, so no one in the covenant will see the characters’ approach. The marker is not in any way magical, except that the mirror has a fixed arcane connection to it.''
''When translating the message for Sir Gilbert, Luc thought that the word “Calebais” might be a name derived from “calidum basium,” or “fiery kiss,” but it was too hard for him to decipher from context. If players ask how to say “kiss of fire” in Latin, perhaps because of Gilbert’s use of the phrase, or if the characters ask Luc about that part of the inscription, they will realize the misunderstanding.''

==The Veil==

''Calebais and the surrouning area are protected against unwanted visitors by a powerful enchantment, similar to the Hermetic spell The Shrouded Glen (ReMe40). It prevents people from entering the covenant and its environs without being admitted by the dryad, who acts as a sort of gatekeeper. Merely wandering through the area will not suffice, as the magic on the mundane level of the forest will turn explorers away without their realizing it, and in the regio the illusions will keep them occupied and confused. It is this “veil” of mystery that Sir Gilbert has been trying to penetrate, with limited success. The characters must find a way to understand the riddle before the dryad will allow them to enter the ruined covenant.''
''Another effect of the Veil is that it prevents almost all Intellego Imaginem and Intellego Mentem spells in the area from func''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''INTRATE IN HANC SILVAM FASCINATUM NON (in-TRAH-tay in honk SEAL-vahm FAH-skeen-AH-toom nohn) “Enter not this enchanted forest.”''
''NISI VOS SCITIS QUOS DUCES SEQUOR PRIMUM ULTIMUSQUAE ET RESPONSUM AENIGMAE SUI (NEE-see vohs SKEE-tees kwohs DOO-kays SAY-kwor PREEmoom OOL-tee-MOOS-kwy ET ray-SPOHN-soom eyeNEEG-my SOO-ee) “Unless ye know which guides to follow, first and last, and the answer to their riddle.”''
''SI OPTATIS NOS ALLOQUOR MANETE IN LOCO HOC UNUS DE NOBIS PERVENIAM MOX (see ope-TAY-tees nohs ah-LOH-kwor mah-NAY-tay in LOHkoh hock OO-noos day NO-bees pair-VAY-nee-ahm moks) “If ye wish to speak with us, wait here; one of us will be with you shortly.”''
''SI ESTIS SODALES SALVETE AD CALEBAIS (see AYST-ess so-DAHL-ees sahl-WAY-tay odd CAH-lay-BAH-ees) “If ye be our friends, be welcome to Calebais”''

==The Marker Inscription==


|}
''tioning. That is, it reduces the strength of this magic by 60 spell levels. This should cause all spells that could penetrate the illusion or read minds to fail, including Intellego spells that have Imaginem or Mentem as a requisite. This effect covers the entire hill, including the covenant and the dryad’s palace.''
''If characters have the means to identify the magic, they will see at least seven different effects of tenth magnitude or higher. Four are Perdo Vim, one is Rego Mentem, one is Intellego Mentem, and one is Creo Imaginem. They are Ritual-level effects that cover the entire hill and do not seem to have an obvious source. Residual magic might reveal that the Perdo effects are more recent than the others, as they were added only about fifty years ago, while the rest are at least a century old.''
''This part of the regio also has a Faerie 4 aura, which will boost the characters’ spells but will also increase their chances for disaster should they botch their magic.''
''Once the characters enter, phantom images will occasionally appear one at a time, each speaking a cryptic message in a language every character can understand, and motioning for the characters to follow. Each guide leads them to its “den,” an illusory location within the regio. Other guides will then appear periodically, even those that the characters have already followed, each speaking its message and beckoning to the characters. If the characters do not follow any of the guides, no matter how carefully they aim or how accomplished their sense of direction, they will eventually wind up back at the pylon or emerge from a different part of the forest, perhaps even on the other side of the hill.''
''The secret to the order of the guides is simple: the characters must follow the fox, and from then on they must follow the guide who begins its message with the last word of the previous guide’s message. For example, the fox’s statement ends with the word “realms,” and so the next guide must be the black spider, who begins his statement with “realms.” After the spider comes the snake, and so on, until they have followed all twelve guides in order. Then the dryad’s image will appear, and ask them for the answer to the riddle.''
''Remember that the guides will not appear in the proper order. While waiting at a creature’s den, characters may be approached by several of the wrong guides before the right one comes along. This may be a random process, or calculated to make the puzzle easier or more difficult. If you have one, a twelve-sided die is useful for this, but don’t assign the creatures the number that corresponds to their place in the sequence below or the players might catch on. If the characters lose sight of the guides or leave the dens on their own, they will have to find their way back to the pylon and start over.''
''On pages 26 and 27 are the guides, their messages, and the brief description of their dens, in the order in which they must be followed. If you photocopy the pages, cut out each of the riddles and give them to the players as they are encountered, it will make this section much easier to run and much, much more enjoyable to play.''
''If all the guides have been followed in the right order, the image of the beautiful white-haired dryad, dressed in a living gown of leaves and flowers, will appear at the top of the cliff. She calls out to them with a voice like rushing wind and water, saying: “Be welcome, friends, if you can answer the riddle that goes before you. Tell me: What am I?”''
''The answer to her riddle is a crown (and you might congratulate whoever solves it with a Confidence Point). If the characters guess correctly, no matter how many tries it takes them, she will descend the cliff on a hidden path, and extend her ghostly hand to lead them through the pass to the ruins of Calebais. The trail cannot be seen no matter how hard the characters try, because of the illusion, but if they follow her carefully they will reach the top without mishap.''

===The Dryad===

''The dryad is bound to Calebais by a bargain she made with Mormulus, whereby she has promised to serve as guide and bearer of the Veil, and the wizard agreed to see that she and her forest were protected from harm. Because of this, she remains bound to the covenant and cannot leave, and, over the years, she has become very lonely. She will welcome guests merrily, and thoroughly enjoy the time she has with them as they try to guess the riddle before she leads them up the pass. It is not their conversation or their appearance that she enjoys, but rather their company; she desires the feeling of having people nearby.''
''The dryad cannot break her agreement under any circumstances. However, she can enjoy a short respite if a character agrees to take her place as wearer of the Veil for a day and a night. She will agree to this bargain only if the character wears a diadem, indicating that he or she has the authority to command her, or if the character accepts a gift from her in return. All of her gifts will have beneficial effects, but will also curse the recipients with faerie sleep, as described below. A character wearing the Veil can show the other characters through the pass while unconscious, though he or she will not be able to join them in the covenant or leave the faerie regio until the curse is broken.''
''If threatened, the dryad can bend the forest to her will, but it is unlikely that she will need to do so since she appears at will and is always insubstantial. Nevertheless, if she is somehow''
''I. Red fox It is supernaturally dexterous and svelte, and leaps about a great deal. Its ears are large and pointed, and its den is a large, tangled briar patch. It says:''
''earing Quendalon’s eyes, I watch over mortal realms.''
''(Note: those with more than passing knowledge of Hermetic history may remember that Quendalon was said to have gems for eyes.)''
''II. Black Spider This frightening creature is about the size of a small child, covered in stiff hairs. A variety of trinkets and tools hang about its body. It lives in a sinkhole, about twenty feet in diameter. Its message is:''
''ealms have crumbled in lust for my power.''
''III. Tiny Snake Brightly colored and not much larger than a dagger, this creature leads the characters to a flat rock that sits in the middle of a flower-covered glade. It says:''
''ower and majesty are my humble gifts.''
''V. Red Drake A skittish dragonlike creature without wings, about the size of a pony; its scarlet scales are tinted with gold. Its den is a shallow cave in a small cliff. Its message: en covet my bright skin, & desire the glorious wealth within.''
''VI Gray Cat This guide is hard to follow as it continually disappears behind rocks and trees, only to reappear again somewhere unexpected. Its den is a nest of soft moss with a ray of light shining on it from above, and under the moss (should the characters think to move it) is an etching of the symbol of Calebais: the broken crown in flames. It says: ithin my compass lay all of Solomon’s wisdom.''
''IV. Squirrel This creature is twice its normal size, with a coat more deeply red than that of other squirrels, and waves its tail in agitation. It lives in an enormous oak tree, and says “”''
''ifts like me are given only by the holiest of men.''
''‘''
''Permission granted to photocopy for personal use. ©2004 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games.''
''VII. A Young Man... ...dressed in green, with very dark, distinctive eyes. He is formal and polite, bowing deeply when he meets the characters, and he leads them to a large, ruined cabin built of stone. When he speaks, he says:''
''isdom is not all that those beneath me are lacking.''
''IX. Falcon A beautiful yellow and red peregrine falcon, with a golden wire band circling its head, meets and leads the characters by flying over them. Its den is the top of a tall stone column, ten feet high, and a basin at the top serves as a bath for a flock of red-brown sparrows. It cries: eaks of stone made the roof that covered my first home.''
''X. Rooster A plucky, bold bird three feet high leaps out of the bushes, perhaps startling one of the characters. Its comb is not red, but silver, and it jumps in the blink of an eye. It lives beneath a small bush covered in berries, and says:''
''ome I have again in stone, in great halls hewn by mighty crafters’ hands.''
''XII. Ermine A white ferret, walking on its hind legs, brings the characters to the face of a large cliff face, about thirty feet high. It is difficult to understand as it speaks through clenched teeth:''
''ring me duty and service, for I sit above all the lords of the land, no matter how noble their bearing.''
''XI. Ghost A nebulous, floating apparition with a raspy voice moves slowly through the forest. It leads the characters to a dark grove of seven trees, barren and littered with needles, and intones:''
''ands can barely lift my weight, and hearts cannot bear the burdens I bring.''
''VIII. Mole It nuzzles along the ground, never looking at the visitors, and leads them directly to its den, a large mound of earth overgrown with small trees and plants. It mumbles:''
''acking a center, but round as a wheel, I tumble into valleys and climb sharp peaks.''
''Permission granted to photocopy for personal use. ©2004 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games.''
''destroyed, the effects of the Veil will end, and all the crops in the region will suffer a terrible disease and waste away, causing seven years of famine. While they may not know the reason, the people in the village may come to blame the characters for this, as their troubles will have started “just after those strange folk came through here,” and the characters may subsequently gain a poor reputation that could make its way to the convent in Chapter Three.''
''If the characters are having a hard time with the riddle, the dryad may encourage them by making the guides speak. Although she is bound not to give away either the solution to the riddle or tell the characters the secret to the proper order of the guides, she can give vague hints or choose the order in which the guides approach, and she might make them appear one after another to emphasize the first and last words of each riddle.''
''If they are really stuck, the dryad (speaking through the guides) might suggest an exchange: if one of the characters will come to her grove, she will allow that character to take her place in the Veil, and so provide access for the rest of the characters. This exchange has consequences that she does not reveal, though, for that character will fall asleep, and because of the nature of the faerie regio will be unable to leave for an entire year.''
''In any case, characters should not be able to force their way through the riddle. The dryad will not respond to threats or bribes, and she and the guides are merely illusions. The Veil prevents spells designed to find a direct route to Calebais, and even if the characters climb the cliff face where the dryad appears, they will wind up on one of the crags, still unable to see the covenant or approach the hilltop. Mormulus, the engineer of this illusion, was extremely clever, and there should be no flaw that the characters can exploit.''
''As a last resort, if the characters wait long enough, a group of Hrools will pass by, led by an ermine Hrool wearing a diadem. They are returning foragers, bearing wood and game. They do not know the secret of the riddle, but wearing a diadem allows the leader to see through the illusions, and thus pass directly through to the covenant. The characters may follow them or try to take the diadem. It will be obvious to anyone who wears this crown that they can see the forest in a new, different way (and feel free to rub it in, after the story is over, that the answer to the riddle was literally right before their eyes).''

===Background: The Veil===

''Mormulus did not wish to remove all contact with the outside world, but he did wish to prevent people from accidentally stum''
''bling upon the covenant. Thus, the Veil was not originally intended to keep everyone out of Calebais, only to present a challenge for those determined to get in. Because of the powers of the Bell, those who wore diadems could sense whenever someone set foot on the hill, and thus would have plenty of time to prepare while visitors were delayed by the riddle. If they won through and were still not useful to the covenant, their memory would be modified and they would be released back into the wood. In the face of a concentrated attack, the dryad would be instructed not to let anyone through, and the invaders would be waited out or hunted down.''
''The effects of the Veil cover all of Two Crag Hill, which is a Boundary target. It has lasted fifty years, so it must be a continuous effect of a device. Yet devices cannot affect a Boundary, as that requires a Ritual spell. How is this possible? The reason is that Mormulus bound the dryad to his service and enchanted her with the Veil. Her involvement makes it possible for him to target the entire area via a specialized form of magic. While it might be possible for other magi to learn this mysterious art of binding spirits, rules for it are beyond the scope of this adventure.''

==The Dryad Grove==

''At the center of the Veil that protects Calebais is the area that contains the dryad’s home and her grove of trees. This area corresponds to the top of Two Crag Hill, and overlaps the mundane layer — the covenant — with a regio and a Faerie 5 aura. It is impossible for the characters to find this place without being led here by the dryad herself or by searching for regio boundaries from within the Veil. Note that Intellego Mentem and Intellego Imaginem effects here are also reduced by 60 spell levels, as explained above.''
''The site is beautiful: there are six trees entwined in a living sculpture, with a large tangle of long roots arching over a round pool formed in the hilltop (the faerie version of the entrance to the covenant). A set of natural stairs made from narrow, straight branches lead up the side of the trees to archways that lead into the inside of their trunks, a series of six rooms that glow with the golden light of polished wood and smell of timber. It is much larger inside than outside. Tables, beds and baths are formed from living vines, leaves and branches, and the palace is unnaturally comfortable, almost decadent.''
''The dryad is not here; she is bound to the fountain in the covenant and her image in the Veil can only be seen after following the guides in the proper order. She leaves out food and drink for visitors and does not begrudge them helping themselves to her hospitality. The provisions are peculiar: wooden''
''bowls filled with rich, heady mead, thick and sweet; and wooden plates piled with cold, spiced meats, salty and flavorful. If mortals eat or drink of these pleasures, they soon become very drowsy and fall fast asleep. This unnatural sleep lasts for an entire year. With a lot of effort, characters can rouse themselves into a state of bleary consciousness for a short while (the equivalent of Dazed), but they cannot leave the faerie forest — they fall unconscious before they can cross the threshold — and they cannot be carried out, for they become too heavy to move. This curse is effectively cast by the dryad, and thus very difficult to dispel.''
''If the characters combine the dryad’s hospitality with that of the satyrs (wine and meat, or fruit with mead, or any other combination), both curses will be lifted and the afflicted characters will suffer no further ill effects; they will find that they can easily leave the faerie regio. The two curses counter each other, for one speeds mortal blood and the other slows it down. This is the method by which they can free the satyrs’ captive, if they have otherwise dealt with the threat the faeries pose to the village, and it is perhaps the only way that they can circumvent the penalty for accepting the faeries’ gifts.''

==Options: The Mystery==

''I. The characters may somehow sneak women into the abbey, which could have the effect of profaning the services, for it is strictly against the Cistercian Rule to say Mass while women are present. This could create a chink through which evil forces can penetrate this fortress of holiness. The divine aura may weaken, and the site could become more vulnerable to infernal attacks. Because of their flouting of tradition, the characters may discover that they have helped a demon gain a hold on the abbey and corrupt it. This demon would probably also be interested in tracking down the characters and corrupting them too, in thanks for their aid, since they seem to be ripe fruit for plucking. II. If the characters manage to rescue the young woman, by bringing her mead or food from the dryad’s grove, she won’t want to return to the village, and she will be desolated if the characters have killed off the satyrs or freed the dryad. She might be convinced to join the characters’ covenant. If the satyrs replace her and the characters ignore her plight, she will eventually escape on her own and return to the village, where the abbot will instruct her to join a convent. The characters may encounter her again in Chapter Three, but she will not speak kindly of them to the abbess. III. Perhaps the characters cannot find their way out of the Veil, and are stuck wandering the forest for days or even weeks, eating up their supplies and scrounging for food. This will probably make the players good and mad, and could cause rifts between the grogs and their masters. If you’re going to do this, go all the way, and play out these scenes in detail. Try to get everyone involved, since this option is likely to inspire a lot of angry character development.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Faerie Might: 45 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre +3, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Personality Traits: Lonely +3, Protective +2, Kind +1 Powers: Control Herbam, 0 points, +5, Herbam: The dryad can control plants within the Veil, causing them to respond to her command. This is equivalent to a sixth magnitude Hermetic effect. Infatuation, 1 point, +0, Mentem: By drawing her spirit close to a mortal, the dryad can cause intense desire for her and a willingness to do her will. Insubstantial Form, 0 points, +5, Imaginem: The dryad cannot be affected by physical things, though she also cannot affect them. This is the only way she can manifest as long as she is bound to Calebais. Vis: The dryad has no vis, since her magical essence is part of the enchantment of the wood. Appearance: The dryad is old, white-haired, and wise, but still beautiful and earthy. She wears a living gown of leaves and flowers.''

==The Dryad==


|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
