
[|
''This chapter helps troupes to create the routes that link their covenants to cities, and gives guidance regarding the amount of time required to travel to and from other stories.''
''Most medieval people never travel more than a few miles from the village of their birth. Those who do travel tend to do so for mercantile reasons. There are many exceptions — pilgrims, crusaders, magi — but when these people travel, they do so using infrastructure created and maintained by commerce.''

==Means of Transport==

''Three complementary means of transport form the trade network of Mythic Europe. Sea travel is the cheapest, in pence per mile, and the fastest method for prolonged travel. River travel is about twice as expensive as sea travel, because riverboats are smaller than seafaring ships, and have more crewmembers per ton of cargo. Road travel is between eight and twenty times more expensive than sea travel, and is far more arduous.''
''Travelers on many routes use all the three means of travel, to reduce''
''delay and expense. On shorter routes, it is common for passengers or cargo to land at a seaport, travel inland along the river system, and then continue to final destinations by road. River transport is so much faster and cheaper that in some areas — on routes over the Alps, for example — merchants transfer themselves, and their cargo, from horse to boat and back again several times. Places where these transfers occur usually become villages.''

==Roads==

''The Roman highway system is all but gone. Travelers have reverted to the routes followed before the uncompromising Romans ruled their straight roads across the continent. Roads now curl along ridge tops and snake along rivers, seeking bridges and shallow fords.''
''Roads come in three types. Dirt roads are little more than tracks, and can usually accommodate beasts of burden provided the weather remains good. Light carts can use some of them, in flat areas during good weather. Gravel roads are uncommon, but are suited for beasts of burden in all weather, and suit light carts when the terrain is relatively level and the weather clear. Many graveled roads have drainage ditches on either side.''
''Paved roads are rare, but are suited for carts, even in poor weather.''

==Bridges==

''Bridges in Mythic Europe are rare, and usually wooden. Stone bridges, which guarantee easy passage over a river, are so rare that small towns rapidly grow up about any new bridge on a major route. In stormy seasons, routes move surprisingly large distances to include the new bridge.''

===Construction===

''It is very expensive to construct and maintain a bridge. Many bridges charge tolls, but the amount this brings in is almost never sufficient to recompense the bridge’s owner for its construction. Some nobles set aside a parcel of land, the income from which pays for the bridge’s construction and maintenance. Bridge building is considered a form of charity, and the rich often leave money in their wills to help maintain the few bridges that exist, or contribute toward new ones. A few of the largest bridges, in cities, have shops and houses on their edges, and the rents contribute to the bridge’s upkeep.''
''Many bridges have a chapel and a bridge house, the latter being a''

=Travel=


|]
''building where tolls are collected and the materials used to maintain the bridge are kept, at one end. These are staffed either by the employees of the lord who owns the bridge, or by the bridge’s fraternity. A bridge fraternity is like a little guild of people who help maintain the bridge. This is a charitable act, but the members of the bridge fraternity are often people who depend on the bridge for their living.''

===Defense===

''Wooden bridges can be set on fire, to prevent their use, but a stone bridge is an avenue of invasion that requires defenses. A single tower is often sufficient, since the invaders cannot bring their force to bear on the tower, except over the narrow passage of the bridge. When an army approaches, peasants near the bridge know that they should rows their boats to the secure side of the river.''

===Ferries and Fords===

''Areas lacking bridges sometimes have ferries, which are slower and cost each traveler more. Ferrymen are often hereditarily entitled to their role. They are maintained with tolls and farmland. Giving money, other than the toll, to support ferrying is an act of charity encouraged by the Church and civil officials.''
''A ford is a shallow place in a river where a person who is willing to get wet can cross. Fords are sufficient for most pilgrims, but are useless for most traders. Pack animals carrying waterproof goods, or those that can be soaked and dried without damage, can use fords. Carts usually find fords impassable. Streams deeper than the''
''axle of the cart, or with a muddy bottom, cannot be passed by carts.''

==Stops==

''Near large cities, along major trade routes, there are inns approximately every eight miles. This distance is considered appropriate for a third of a day’s passenger travel. The inn provides merchants and passengers with a stopping place. They can water and feed their mounts, eat meals, and purchase any minor supplies they require. Small inns are little more than large houses, where the traveler shares a bed with the innkeeper’s family. Larger inns, particularly those within cities, offer less crowded accommodation to those willing to pay for it.''
''Some places where a stop would be best are not comfortable locations in which to reside. These stops, and a few others, are served by hospices. The Church runs hospices as an act of charity. These institutions often pay locals to guide travelers, provide rescuers in dangerous terrain, and maintain roads and signs. Hospices lacking substantial endowments are perpetually short of money. Sometimes, the leaders of a hospice send out “questers.” These monks beg the funds required by the hospice from powerful, rich people.''

===Innkeepers===

''The keepers of the grandest inns, within cities, provide many services other than accommodation and provisioning.''
''Many large inns have storage space that can be used to warehouse goods.''
''•''
''Innkeepers within cities usually act as agents for moneychangers. Small quantities of coin can be converted immediately, and money used to pay for the innkeeper’s services need not be in the local currency. Innkeepers can act as witnesses for book transfers – when two clients of the same banker agree to transfer money between their accounts. Innkeepers can pair buyers and sellers of cargo. Each side of the transaction pays the innkeeper a small fee for this assistance. Some innkeepers specialize in customers of a particular nationality, and provide translation services to their guests. Innkeepers can hire people on behalf of a customer. Travelers often require guides, and craft''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''ers to repair vehicles. Innkeepers can also provide introductions to people in less savory professions. The innkeeper does not charge his guests for this service, but the workers that are hired usually pay a gratuity for the referral.''

==Rivers==

''The map of the major trade routes in Mythic Europe demonstrates the importance of rivers to commerce, but it is slightly deceptive, as it charts only the routes taken by people traveling between cities. Along the main channel, shown on the map, a fine filigree of creeks, tributaries, lakes, and streams envelops each river. These allow a city placed upon the river to draw resources from throughout the river’s watershed. These unmapped tributaries are a vital part of the economic network of Europe. They also provide local traders with useful sites and resources, accessible through the Area Lore skill, as described below.''

===River Folklore===

''Each river has a series of myths surrounding it. These may serve as inspirational ideas for stories.''
''The Danube was embodied as a faerie goddess in ancient times, and her nymphs guard grottos filled with her treasures, and gateways to Arcadia. Her children, the Tuatha de Danu, are the fair folk of Ireland. The Elbe is haunted by a Wild Hunt with a female leader, called Frau Wode, and shadowy boatmen carry invisible passengers over the river.''
''•''
''•''
''An island near the mouth of the Loire was a college for Druidic priestesses, in the years before the formation of the Order. The young sun god Phaeton drowned in the Po after falling from the solar chariot, and his body has not been recovered. The Rhine is haunted by the Lorelei, a nymph that sings men to their doom. The Rhone ends at the wild and inhospitable Camargue Delta, where a ghostly horse keeps a larder of up to 100 wicked children.''

==Area Lore: The Hinterland as a Resource==

''The Area Lore Ability is used to find people, resources, and places within a city or its hinterland. Characters who successfully roll Intelligence + Area Lore against the Ease Factors given in the Area Lore Ease Factors table know how to contact people, or find resources, but need other Abilities, like Charm or Bargain, to acquire goods cheaply, or convince people to offer assistance. Characters who spend most of their time in a city, like craftsmen, subtract 3 from Area Lore rolls to find material in the hinterland. Characters who spend most of their time in the hinterland, like local carriers or characters that live in rural covenants, subtract 3 to find things in the city.''

==Vessels==

''The vessels described below have carrying capacities based on tonnage. A tun is a large barrel of wine, and a''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''ton of cargo takes up as much space and carrying capacity as a tun.''

==Land Vessels==

''One horse carries a load of about 400 pounds (0.15 tons) and costs half a pound. A two-wheeled cart, pulled by two or three horses, has a maximum load between one-half and three-quarters of a ton. It costs onetwelfth of a pound (twenty pence). These carts distribute bulky material within local regions. One might carry a single barrel of wine. Four-wheeled carts, pulled by six horses, can carry loads of up to 1.25 tons and cost one-sixth of a pound (forty pence). Four-wheeled carts require excellent roads and dependable bridges. The largest carts are far more expensive than lighter ones, having ironrimmed wheels and axles. Smooth, wide, paved roads, such as a covenant might create magically, allow carts with six-horse teams that can pull 1.75 tons, and cost one pound each.''
''Land transport requires far fewer staff than shipping. A single person can effectively lead and tend three pack beasts if walking with a halter to the first beast, or six if riding. Each cart, however, requires a single driver. Carts traveling long distances often have a second driver, who alternates with the first and acts as a guard.''

==River Barges==

''The size of barges varies across Europe, because their maximum size depends on the depth of their river or lake. The largest Thames barges, for example, are capable of coastal trade, and carry around 20 tons to London.''
''6+ A shop selling any common product or service, desired by all people, and places where goods may be had for free, like fishing and hunting spots''
''Any major road, ferry, ford, pass, or bridge''
''Any major hazard to travel on the main route''
''Any major inn''
''Appropriate behavior as a minor participant at festivals''
''9+ A shop selling any good or service desired only by a section of society. Examples include farriers, coopers, or weapon smiths. This is also the level required to contact most hedge magicians.''
''Smaller gravel or paved roads''
''Hazards to travel within the region, off the main roads and rivers''
''The largest inn or hospice near each village''
''People with Reputations of 6+''
''Local customs, ignorance of which is illegal or despised''
''12+ A shop selling goods that are desired only by a narrow group within society. Examples include anything related to the book trade, to cosmetics, or to luxury fabrics.''
''The road to any mundane place in the region''
''Hazardous sections of towns or cities, and the correct method of traveling through them''
''Small hospices or inns along the route, and their quality, and places where a merchant might comfortably camp along the route''
''People with Reputations of 3+''
''Local laws or customs that will cause the character to slowly develop a poor Reputation if ignored''
''15+ A person selling a service or product that is illegal, and actively repressed. This includes burglars, kidnappers, and herbalists willing to sell illicit poison.''
''Minor tracks, or the roads to deserted settlements''
''Individual persons or places of ill repute, where other travelers have suffered. Suffering, in this case, may be as severe as murder, or as minor as uncomfortable beds and watered drinks.''
''Where to get the best room at every time of year, and where to seek shelter in weather too poor to travel''
''Any person who is publicly a member of any community on the route. The character may need to take the time to ask locals, but with this successful roll, they know whom to ask.''
''The public alliances, commercial dealings, and marital links between persons of note (Reputations of 3+)''
''Who is really in charge, and how to meet them. This Ease Factor is used in places where real power is widely known to be held by private people, who control proxies holding public offices.''
''18+ A person selling services that are considered heinous, for example thugs willing to commit murder''
''Roads considered to be under supernatural influence, such as faerie trods or black ways''
''Factors that make places hazardous briefly, before they revert to safe. This includes places that become mystically charged on certain nights, but also includes an understanding of the circuit of the local bailiffs, or the methods of customs inspectors.''
''How to contact mundane people who have taken efforts to be anonymous, like smugglers or bandits''

==Area Lore Ease Factors==

''Optimally, they have three crewmembers, but many have only a man and a boy. The largest Pisan barges also engage in coastal trade and are approximately the same size. As their goods travel up the Arno, three different sizes of barge are used, each progressively smaller as the river gets shallower, with the smallest only one-twentieth the capacity of the sea-barges. Lighters, which are used to land cargo from vessels too large to dock at quayside, vary in size, but those found in the English Wash are about 25 feet long and can carry eight tons of cargo.''

==Seagoing Ships==

''The buss is a distant descendant of the Viking knarr. It is, comparatively, a small, long, narrow design''
''with a shallow draft. The buss is commonly used in coastal, local trade. It is also used for fishing. It carries around 20 tons and has eight or less crew.''
''The cog is the main trade ship in the Atlantic, North Sea, and Baltic. Cogs are sometimes flat bottomed, designed to settle when the tide recedes, so that they can be unloaded directly into carts. Cogs are clinker-built: the boards of their hulls overlap. The vast majority of cogs carry 20 tons, but some larger cogs, which carry between 100 and 140 tons, are also used for trade and war. Bulk grain carriers are larger again, but cogs that can handle over 240 tons are exceptionally rare. A handful of men can control a 20-ton sailing ship. A 100-ton cog has a dozen crewmembers. A 240-ton cog has 18 or more crew.''
''The galley is a vessel with a single mast, and propelled by banks of oars. Galleys are popular with the Italian maritime powers and some Byzantine successor states. Typical galleys have around 160 crewmen, mostly rowers, all of whom are paid. The large crew, and their supplies, drastically limits the cargo space, to between 20 and 30 tons, making them suitable only for luxury cargoes. These crews must restock water and provisions every week. Galleys have two advantages: they can travel almost as fast as a sailing ship, regardless of wind, and their large crews discourage piracy. Galleys make up less than 5% of Mediterranean shipping. Galleys cost twenty-five times their cargo capacity in tons, when fully crewed.''
''The nef is the main trade ship in the Mediterranean. It follows a Roman design, but has lateen rigging, an idea borrowed from the Arabs, and may have up to three''
''masts. Lateen sails are used because they sail closer to the wind. Nefs are carvel built: the boards of their hulls lie flush with each other. The average nef carries 20 tons of cargo, but many ships carry around 100 tons.''
''A handful of ships in the Mediterranean can carry more cargo than the types detailed above. Genoa owns two, which it uses to repatriate goods that are aggregated in Cyprus, which represent the sum of colonial production throughout the Near East. Venice also has two 250-ton ships, which it uses as part of its annual grain voyage to Egypt. The maximum size for a ship in the Mediterranean is 800 tons, but such ships are never operated commercially: they serve as subsidized grain barges for their respective cities. In times of trouble, most traders prefer''

[|

==Cog==


==Galley==


|]
''to use many, smaller ships as a way of spreading risk.''
''Player characters pressing the limits of shipbuilding will discover that the Romans used 1200-ton ships to transport grain. These ships could only sail in the season of favorable winds, in the tideless Mediterranean, at around 20 miles per day. They were so expensive to maintain, and so vulnerable once Rome lost the ability to suppress piracy throughout the Mediterranean, that 500ton vessels were used instead. Many Venetians and Genoans think even 250-ton vessels are impractically large for mundane trade. With minor magical assistance, however, vessels the size of Roman grain barges are practicable.''
''Southern ships use lateen sails, which are more difficult to manage than the square sails used to the north, so they have larger crews. A''
''20-ton nef usually has six crew, while a 100-ton ship needs 18, and a 240ton nef has 30 crewmembers. A massive southern grain barge needs 150 crew, but may have far more.''
''A sailing ship costs four pounds per ten tons of cargo it can carry. This does not include the additional cargo space a merchant may liberate by sailing with less than a full crew.''

==Comparison of Traveling Speeds==

''The following figures are ranges. The lowest figure assumes that the vessel is able to make good progress, hindered only by occasional poor terrain or poor weather. The highest figure assumes excellent terrain and accommodating weather. Players performing their own research should note that all distances and speeds are given in standard, not nautical, miles.''
''River barges travel 8 to 10 miles per day, faster downriver than upriver. Rivers with particularly strong currents make this disparity larger. Most road cargoes travel 15 to 25 miles per day. Mounted merchants carrying light loads, by packhorse, travel perhaps 24 miles per day. Coaches carrying people travel between 18 and 24 miles per day, with the level of discomfort increasing with the speed. Skilled couriers (single riders on horseback) travel around 30 miles per day. Sailing vessels travel roughly 60 to 80 miles per day. Extremely large ships are far slower than this, however. Sea travel is also highly dependent on weather.''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''Many ventures stall for weeks waiting for the weather to break. Couriers willing to break their horses, with a steady supply of remounts, have sometimes managed 90 miles per day.''

==Comparison of Traveling Costs==

''It costs a couple of magi and a half dozen grogs one pound to travel with a merchant for two weeks. An adventuring party, therefore, pays six pounds to charter a small, crewed ship for a season. They occupy around a ton of cargo capacity. This includes a fortnight’s worth of provisions, which are refreshed when possible. Ships that hug the coast, restocking regularly, may carry less foood and water, so that a group of eight passangers requires only half a ton of cargo space. Pirate vessels often operate this way, as it allows their vessels to have larger crew sizes.''
''Covenants that own ships often have sailors as grogs. If the grogs in the party act as part of the standard crew during their voyage, they do not reduce cargo space. They take up crew space instead. Captains generally refuse to sack members of their crew to allow magi to reduce their fare by having the grogs work passage.''
''Naval tradition indicates that it is bad luck to have a wizard aboard, so magi need to disguise their status if they do not wish to damage the morale of the crew. Known magi may need to offer double their usual fee for passage, and even then will only be able to hire captains desperate enough to take serious risks with the safety of their vessels and crews.''
''•''

[|

==Nef==


|]
''River travel costs twice as much as sea travel.''
''Road travel costs between eight and 20 times more than sea travel, depending on the distance to the destination, the risk involved, and the possiblity of lucrative side and return cargoes.''
''Much of the cost of travel goes to pay for food, tools, and accomodation. A local trader or ship captain carrying passengers can usually pocket 10% of his travel costs as profit.''

==Ship Combat==

''Combat between ships in Mythic Europe usually involves an aggressor boarding a victim, and the two crews engaging in cramped melee. Pirates and warships have an advantage when boarding because they do not carry cargo, and can allocate that space to additional combatants. Light shipboard artillery is available in medieval Europe, but it is rarely able to sink enemy ships. Ramming and shearing oars with catheads are the usual alternative to boarding, but are only effective in galleys.''

==Softening the Enemy==

''Shipboard artillery is used to kill enemy sailors. A successful attack with a ballista (huge crossbow) kills an enemy crewman. It has a range of six hundred yards and takes ten rounds to reload, so the number that can be picked off this way depends on the rate at which the ships are closing with each other. A successful attack with a light catapult has a range of 200 yards and throws up sharp splinters of decking, which incapaci''
''tates (simple die / 2) enemies. It also takes ten rounds to reload. Each artillery piece, and all the ammunition it could be reasonably expected to use on a normal journey, requires a quarter ton of cargo space. Ships may not mount more than one artillery piece per 20 tons of cargo space, and artillery fired into a melee kills friend and foe indiscriminately.''
''Galleys are designed to ram their enemy, then back oars, to withdraw from contact with the beleaguered ship before it sinks. Galleys can unship their masts, which prevents them from toppling over when the galley rams. Sailing ships can neither stow their masts nor back water effectively, so ramming with a sailing ship is committing it to entanglement, and likely to destruction if the other ship sinks. Two captains compare rolls of (stress die + Intelligence + Profession + up to 3 for experienced crews) and the victor either rams soundly, shears oars, or escapes damage. A soundly rammed ship founders in (5 times a simple die) minutes.''
''Shearing oars is a combat maneuver where a galley uses a specially designed ram to cut off an opposing galley’s oars above the waterline. The ends of the oars flail when this occurs, incapacitating (2 times a simple die) of the opponent’s rowers, and leaving the opponent unable to make way until new oars are shipped from the hold or undamaged side.''

==Boarding and Melee==

''If a predatory ship attempts to engage a fleeing victim, the two captains compare rolls of (stress die + Intelligence + Profession + up to 3 for experienced crews). The victorious captain either has the opportunity to board the victim, or the opportunity to''
''slip away from the pursuer. A range of factors favoring either side may modify these rolls. As examples, pirates prefer smaller, faster ships than merchants, which provides them with a bonus, while fleeing merchants may receive a bonus due to fog or sleeting rain.''
''Melee between pirates and merchant crews is conducted using the group combat rules given on page 172 of ArM5. Pirates do not usually attack unless they have the advantage of numbers or can surprise an unsuspecting ship to defeat its crew before they can organize their defense. Merchants, in turn, have a few advantages: their ships are often far larger than the light, swift craft most pirates use. The added height grants them a +3 bonus on Attack and Defense Totals until they are boarded. Then, the deck of the merchant ship acts as the battlefield and, in exceptional circumstances, the merchant ship might break away from the pirate vessel. This divides the combat into two unequal halves, with a small group of pirates trapped with the merchant crew.''
''Crew size is one of the great advantages of warships. Ships that have to sail far enough that the crew''
''requires supplies, particularly water, may have eight added crewmen for each ton of cargo space lost. Ships packed with people that do not require supplies, for example raiders from a nearby town, may have 16 added crewmen for every quarter ton of cargo foregone. For small ships, this magnifies the crew size tremendously. Rich houses might consider having a warship paired with a supply ship, so that it can be densely crewed.''

==Sea Monsters==

''This book lacks sufficient size to detail the range of creatures that might assail a ship. Most small creatures lack the ability to puncture seasoned wood, and so cannot affect the fabric of the hull directly. Those of human size may be able to make small punctures in the hull, given time. The holes they make are small enough to be patched before the ship founders, and the crew is usually able to attack the creature while it works. Against small creatures, ships are very durable.''
''Creatures Size +4 and above find ships easy to destroy. Ships are''
''so large that melee attacks against them automatically hit, and missile weapons have a +6 attack bonus. Pounding or crushing attacks warp the frame of the ship, springing its seams and allowing the hull to flood. In brief, ships are as vulnerable to large monsters as breadbaskets are to humans: a large monster pounding or crushing a ship is treated as an environmental effect, much like a fire. It will destroy the ship in a certain number of rounds, selected by the storyguide, unless the player characters deal with it first.''

==Sea Trade==

''The sea trade in Mythic Europe is divided into two regions, the north and the south. The southern region includes the Mediterranean and the Black Sea, which are separated by the Bosphorus, the straits at Constantinople. The northern region includes the Atlantic coast, the English Channel, the North Sea, and the Baltic. The Muslim lands in Iberia separate the two regions. The southern region is the richer of the two, having a larger population and volume of trade. The two regions also link via land routes over the Alps, and by eastern river routes.''
''Mundane rulers can restrict voyages. The Straits of Gibraltar may be passed by Muslim vessels, with magical assistance, or with a story. Genoa has a treaty with the rulers of the area that allows a handful of their ships to pass each year, at tremendous cost. Genoans guard this privilege with force. Journeys into the Black Sea from the Mediterranean require the characters to pass Constantinople, which has granted a trade monopoly''
''for much of the Black Sea to Venice. Travel in the Baltic is constrained by the Kingdom of Denmark, and by local coalitions of merchants, although it is possible if a partner from the Baltic fronts the voyage.''
''Most sea trade, and therefore travel, occurs in small sailing vessels for a mixture of technological and economic reasons. The ships in the northern region are clinker-built with adzes, which limits their maximum size. The ships of the southern region use twin steering boards rather than centrally mounted rudders, which, again, curbs their effective maximum size. Larger vessels can only dock in deepwater harbors, which are rare. Small ships can navigate rivers to upstream ports, like London, and they spend less time in port, waiting for cargo. Use of small ships spreads risk more effectively than using a single, large ship.''
''Different types of ships are used in the two regions. Galleys are not currently used in the Atlantic, although there is no structural reason for this. If your saga follows real history, eventually the Genoese will send an annual fleet of galleys to Southampton and the Netherlands. Similarly, cogs are not used for Mediterranean trade, although Basque pirates in the Islamic areas of Iberia use them and, again, if your saga follows real history, the Hansa will send fleets of cogs to the Mediterranean.''

===Adding Places To the Land Trade Map and Naval Trade Tables===

''The easiest way of adding a place to the land map is to use the internet to find the direct distance, in miles, between the new site and''

[|

==Greek Fire==

''Greek fire is a sticky, flammable substance that cannot be extinguished by water. The Byzantine navy, prior to the fall of Constantinople, used siphons and ceramic pots flung from catapults to incinerate enemy vessels. The secret of the manufacture of Greek fire, or a similar concoction made in imitation by Arabic alchemists, is closely guarded. Characters might acquire it, as part of a major story.''

|]
''the surrounding sites on the map. Divide that distance by 12 for road travel. Divide it by six for river travel with the current, or eight for travel against the current. These denominators include a 20% travel rate penalty, which compensates for the meandering of roads and rivers. It is easiest to look at the routes on a map,''
''and if they are mostly road travel, or mostly river travel, treat them as exclusively road or river travel.''
''For sea travel, divide the direct distance by 60.''
''The Naval Tables use standard, not nautical, miles. Players performing their own research may find distances expressed in nautical miles,''
''each of which is slightly longer than 1.15 standard miles.''
''The distances on the Naval Tables include inland travel from a port to the named city. The extreme example of this is the sea trade figure for Paris. Its figures include a 230mile journey by barge along the Seine.''

[|
''These tables divide Europe into six regions, linked by junctions. A junction is a place that a ship must pass to move from one region of Europe to another. A player designing a voyage simply adds together the times to each junction, then to the final port.''

==Naval Trade Tables==

''Danzig''
''Lubeck''
''Reval''
''Riga''
''Skagarek Junction''
''Danzig 0 6 8 6 8''
''Lubeck 6 0 12 10 5''
''Reval 8 12 0 6 13''
''Riga 6 10 6 0 12''
''Skagarek Junction 8 5 13 12 0''
''Bordeaux''
''Lisbon''
''Seville''
''Brittany Junction''
''Gibraltar Junction''
''Bordeaux 0 14 21 6 19''
''Lisbon 14 0 7 13 5''
''Seville 19 5 0 18 5''
''Brittany Junction 6 13 20 0 18''
''Gibraltar Junction 19 5 7 18 0''
''Bruges''
''Dublin''
''Edinburgh (Leith)''
''Hamburg''
''London''
''Paris''
''Brittany Junction''
''Skagarek Junction''
''Bruges 0 11 8 7 4 32 8 11''
''Dublin 11 0 12 17 12 36 7 9''
''Edinburgh (Leith) 8 12 0 9 9 38 13 9''
''Hamburg 7 17 9 0 9 38 10 7''
''London 3 11 8 8 1 32 5 17''
''Paris 27 31 33 33 5 0 35 34''
''Brittany Junction 7 5 13 10 9 40 0 16''
''Skagarek Junction 9 17 9 7 12 39 16 0''
''Bilhorod''
''Constanta''
''Kaffa''
''Trebizond''
''Varna''
''Constantinople''
''Junction''
''Bilhorod 0 3 2 10 5 6''
''Constanta 3 0 6 12 1 4''
''Kaffa 2 6 0 7 7 7''
''Trebizond 10 12 7 0 15 10''
''Varna 5 1 7 15 0 3''
''Constantinople Junction 6 4 7 10 3 0''
''tables continue on next page''
''Algiers''
''Barcelona''
''Genoa''
''Marseilles''
''Naples''
''Palermo''
''Palma''
''Pisa''
''Rome''
''Valencia''
''Gibraltar''
''Junction''
''Messina''
''Junction''
''Syracuse''
''Junction''
''Tunis''
''Junction''
''Algiers 0 5 10 8 11 10 3 10 10 4 8 12 12 8''
''Barcelona 5 0 7 4 11 11 3 7 8 3 10 13 14 9''
''Genoa 10 7 0 4 6 8 9 1 4 10 17 9 11 9''
''Marseilles 8 4 4 0 9 9 6 4 6 7 14 11 12 9''
''Naples 11 11 6 9 0 3 11 5 21 13 19 3 5 6''
''Palermo 10 11 8 9 3 0 10 7 4 13 18 2 4 4''
''Palma 3 3 9 6 11 10 0 9 9 3 9 12 13 8''
''Pisa 10 7 1 4 5 7 9 0 3 10 17 8 9 8''
''Rome 10 8 4 6 21 4 9 3 0 11 18 5 7 6''
''Valencia 4 3 10 7 13 13 3 10 11 0 8 15 15 11''
''Gibraltar Junction 8 10 17 14 19 18 9 17 18 8 0 20 20 16''
''Messina Junction 12 13 9 11 3 2 12 8 5 15 20 0 1 6''
''Syracuse Junction 12 14 11 12 5 4 13 9 7 15 20 1 0 5''
''Tunis Junction 8 9 9 9 6 4 8 8 6 11 16 6 5 0''
''Acre''
''Alexandria''
''Crete (Iraklion)''
''Cyprus''
''(Larnaca)''
''Smyrna''
''Split''
''Venice''
''Constantinople''
''Junction''
''Messina''
''Junction''
''Syracuse''
''Junction''
''Tunis''
''Junction''
''Acre 0 6 22 3 12 23 26 16 19 19 24''
''Alexandria 6 0 7 6 10 20 23 14 16 16 20''
''Crete (Iraklion) 22 7 0 8 5 13 17 9 10 9 5''
''Cyprus (Larnaca) 3 6 8 0 10 22 25 15 18 18 22''
''Smyrna 12 10 5 10 0 16 19 5 12 12 17''
''Split 23 20 13 22 16 0 4 19 9 9 14''
''Venice 26 23 17 25 19 4 0 22 12 13 18''
''Constantinople Junction''
''16 14 9 15 5 19 22 0 16 15 20''
''Messina Junction 19 16 10 18 12 9 12 16 0 1 6''
''Syracuse Junction 19 16 9 18 12 9 13 15 1 0 5''
''Tunis Junction 24 20 5 22 17 14 18 20 6 5 0''

==Naval Trade Tables, Continued==

{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
