''The laboratories of the magi are right at the very heart of the covenant, its most precious areas, where the wizards of the Order of Hermes carefully stow away their magic and secrets. The laboratory is usually the innermost part of the sanctum (see Chapter 8: Sanctum) — this chapter only discusses the laboratory itself, although some of the rules also relate more broadly to the sanctum.''
''This chapter does not introduce a great many extra rules for the tasks one can perform in a laboratory, which are already covered in detail in the Laboratory chapter of ArM5; rather it presents a whole host of options for personalizing and specializing the lab itself. Instead of being a sterile and standardized workplace, the lab now comes alive with a flavor and sometimes even a personality of its own, becoming just as individual and unique as its owner.''

==The Standard Hermetic Laboratory==

''Although the labs of Hermetic magi (especially more elderly magi) do vary considerably, there is nevertheless a commonly accepted notion of what constitutes a “standard laboratory.” While they may find themselves bewildered upon entering the highly personalized lab of an archmagus or an exotic wizard, for example, all magi find themselves familiar with and at home in a standard Hermetic laboratory. Indeed, freshly Gauntleted magi usually start out with just such a standard lab of their own. Only after a number of years and decades of lab improvement does the lab gradually deviate from the norm, according to the personalization rules below.''
''The basic physical requirements for a standard Hermetic laboratory are as follows: a single chamber, with 500 square''
''feet of floor space, a ten foot high ceiling, and sturdy walls and roof to protect against the elements. The required outfittings cost five Mythic Pounds to procure. It takes someone with a Magic Theory of three or more two seasons of work to set up the lab. After the first season of setup (requiring three of the five pounds), there is a functioning lab of sorts, albeit with the Basic Flaw (see below), giving a –3 penalty to all Lab Totals. The second season (and the remaining two pounds) removes this penalty, giving a functioning standard laboratory.''
''Note that every one of the requirements listed above (apart from needing at least one season, unless the lab is created with magic) can be violated, and the magus still obtains a functioning lab. However, such a laboratory is non-standard, and has some penalties (Flaws), which are detailed below. In particular, although a Magic Theory score is required, someone with a Magic Theory of less than three can still set up a lab. However, such a lab starts with a negative Refinement score (see below), meaning that it automatically acquires one or more Flaws.''

==Laboratory Equipment==

''There are several types of mundane equipment that are found in a standard laboratory. Heating sources — including candles, lamps, and braziers — are used when the maga needs to distill or calcine a compound. Receptacles such as pots, bowls, and crucibles may be made from pottery, stone, or metal. Storage containers are also a must, and include bags, baskets, boxes, jars, and sealed pots. Other basic equipment includes spatulas or spoons to measure out and stir compounds, weighing scales, tongs to move heated containers, and tables. Basic ingredients include sand; charcoal; a small quantity of silver; numerous liquids including water, distilled''
''alcohol (used as a solvent), and oil; as well as various powders and pastes.''
''Since the creation of (or the study from) a Laboratory Text is an important part of the process of lab work, each lab usually includes a writing desk and a bookstand, and has a stock of writing materials at hand, including parchments, inks, and quills (see Chapter Seven: Library for more details). For the making of temporary notes, a wax tablet and a stylus is employed. The writing (or reading) area needs to be well lit, usually with many candles.''
''More precious equipment is often fashioned of brass, glass, or other unusual materials. A retort is a vessel that looks like a sphere with a long, thin nose. They are used to distill liquids: the sphere is heated, and some of the liquid boils off into vapor, condensing in the nose tube. Glass containers, such as beakers and flasks, are used for measuring or heating, although they are prone to shatter when heated. Stills are used to help purify liquid mixtures. Here, a large network of glass or metal tubing is used to cool the vapor so that it condenses again. One of the simplest types is an alembic, consisting of two retorts connected by a tube. A large brass or copper cauldron is often used to heat or mix large quantities of materials.''
''In order to measure the positions of the stars, most labs contain at least one astronomical device, the most common of which is the astrolabe, a circular tool bearing a depiction of the heavens, with a rotating arm. More sophisticated devices include armillary spheres.''

==Physical Arrangement==

''The main chamber of the laboratory usually consists of a number of distinct areas, although at least half of the floor space should be broad and open, unencumbered by architectural features such''

=Laboratories=

''as supports or pillars. The entrance of the lab is often its grandest feature, advertising the presumed magnificence within to others. It is where the owner of the lab commonly places his sanctum marker. One well-lit area is devoted to reading and writing. In another place might be arranged one or more stills and delicate glassware, where precise alchemical work is undertaken. A cauldron and bigger containers, for larger, more robust work, may be nearby. One area is usually cleared of most equipment and is set aside for the casting of spells, for which empty space is needed. In another area, the magus may wish to sit and tinker with devices such as astrolabes, usually by a window or skylight. In one secure corner of the lab are usually placed the stores, where vis and other precious ingredients are kept. Some magi even sleep in their labs, in which case a portion is reserved for a bed and other furniture. However, it is more usual for a magus to have separate living quarters, which are often nearby or adjacent to the main lab chamber. Lastly, there may be areas or antechambers set aside for either an apprentice or a familiar.''

==The Principles of Labwork==

''The functioning of a Hermetic laboratory can be illustrated by listing seven main principles or factors that play a key role.''
''Experimentation: The experimental premise is crucial to labwork. There is of course a need to try things out — magic cannot be studied or effects learned without actually performing magic. This is a process of trial and error, and involves consuming ingredients, replacing broken equipment, and so on. While there is an element of experimentation in all lab work, this principle is applied especially when using the Experimentation rules (see ArM5, page 109) or when studying Arts from raw vis.''
''Documentation: Laboratory Texts are usually either produced or studied during a season of lab work. A maga writes things down principally so that she has a record of her own work, and thus does not need to rely on her own memory, but also to allow others to learn from and duplicate her efforts. This aspect of lab work naturally involves the consumption of candles, parchment, and inks.''
''Comfort: It is difficult to concentrate on intricate study if the body’s basic needs are not well catered for — a lab needs to''
''be well lit, well heated, sanitary, and well furnished, and its owner needs to be fed regularly. The unfortunate owner of an uncomfortable lab may well find that his work suffers because of it.''
''Sympathy: The magical law of sympathy plays a role in the lab, just as it does in the creation of books (see Chapter 7: Library, Resonances). It is therefore advantageous if the outfittings and ingredients of the lab relate to the magics being performed. For example, an underground chamber with many specimens of crystal is beneficial for lab work with the Art of Terram. For this reason, it is often easy to guess at the magical proclivities of a magus from the appearance and outfittings of his lab.''
''Quality: Since Hermetic magic often deals with things in their perfect form, or in an idealized state, it follows that the Hermetic magus tries to work with equipment and ingredients that are as perfect as possible. He therefore demands the highest standards of craftsmanship in his tools and requires the most precious and expensive ingredients that the funds of his covenant will allow. Purely from a practical standpoint, delicate equipment that is of a higher quality is also less prone to breakage and error.''
''Extent: A larger lab, with more extensive contents, is generally desirable. With more space, there may be a greater variety of tools, ingredients, and specimens at hand — all of these things lead to more possibilities and fewer limitations. A greater quantity of equipment also allows for some tools that are more highly specialized. However, large labs are also more complex and thus require more skilled magi to construct them safely.''
''Focus: Most labs have some kind of center, which is usually where the maga’s time and efforts are most concentrated. Although she naturally roams her whole lab, this focal area is often the one where she spends the bulk of her time, or where the most important tasks are undertaken. Not all labs need a focus, but it is very common for specialized labs to have a central feature or device. Again according to the law of sympathy, the nature of the''
''focus relates to the central purpose of the lab. For example, a Verditius metalsmith may have a large forge as his centerpiece.''

==Life in the Laboratory==

''Hermetic lab work is time-consuming and demanding, and it inevitably takes its toll on a magus. Some few magi manage to lead fairly normal lives at the same time as undertaking lab work, while others, the archetypal “lab-rats,” retreat almost completely to their laboratories for entire seasons with the barest minimum of outside interaction. Most magi fall somewhere between these two extremes. Since lab work can be highly engrossing, it is very easy for magi to fall into the antisocial habits of lab-rats.''
''The standard lab routine assumes that a magus works in the lab for ten hours a day, six days a week. On work days, this leaves precious little time — only a couple of hours — for other activities, apart from eating and sleeping. On his rest day, a magus might engage in the writing of letters or diaries, socializing, attending to household tasks, engaging in noble pastimes such as hunting, worshiping (if he is religious), or simply relaxing or meditating. Occasionally, important lab tasks that cannot be interrupted require a magus to skip one or more rest days, so that he will have about ten rest days in total in a typical season. Up to ten work days can be missed in a season (in any order) without penalty, provided that the lost time is made up by working on rest days. However, a magus who is absent from his lab for more than ten days in a season suffers the penalties to his Lab Total given in ArM5, page 103.''

===Non-standard Laboratory Routines===

''Some magi work longer hours than normal, or at odd times of the day or night, as well as sacrificing rest days, in an effort to make their seasons in the lab more productive. While this does provide some benefit (a small bonus to that season’s Lab Total), there are also a host of disadvantages. For example, tiredness due to overwork may make a magus more prone to accidents, and there may be adverse effects on his health. Staying in the lab for too long can also cause Warping.''
''If a magus decides to work non-standard hours, choose one (or more) of the following routines each season. He may''
''combine multiple routines (for example, Nocturnal, Addled, and Overtime), except that the three Overtime routines may not be combined with each other, and Early Riser may not be combined with Nocturnal. When more than one routine is taken, the effects of each are cumulative. Any penalties to the Living Conditions modifier from any given routine only apply once in a year. For example, for a year in which the Nocturnal and Overtime routines are taken in all four seasons, the total adjustment to the Living Conditions modifier would be –2 (–1 from each routine). For a character less than 35 years old, any penalty to the Living Conditions modifier also requires her to make an Aging roll at the end of the year. Fatigue penalties do not apply to Lab Totals. Magi who regularly employ nonstandard routines generally acquire relevant Personality Traits and Reputations, at the discretion of the storyguide. If a magus’s routine is disrupted (for example, he is absent from his lab for longer than the routine allows), he loses the Lab Total bonus, but still suffers the penalties.''
''A maga may also choose to work fewer than the standard ten hours per''
''day. There are no special routines for this — for each hour fewer, she simply loses 10% of her Lab Total or Advancement Total for the season.''
''Early Riser: A “lark,” the maga’s daily cycle is a couple of hours earlier than most folk, and she usually rises before dawn. This allows her to fit in a little extra lab time in the quiet early hours — gain +1 to the Lab Total for the season. However, she becomes tired as soon as dusk falls, at which point she loses a Long-Term Fatigue level and gains one extra botch die on all activities for the night. Since this is her bedtime, she likely resents being disturbed or woken up thereafter.''
''Nocturnal: An “owl,” the maga’s daily cycle is the opposite of most folk — she works at night and sleeps during the day. This has the advantage that the night is quieter and presents fewer distractions — gain +2 to the Lab Total for the season. Due to lack of sunlight and daylight living, however, she suffers a –1 penalty to her Living Conditions modifier for any year in which she has taken at least one Nocturnal season. She also has trouble functioning during the daytime; when dawn breaks, she loses a Long-Term''
''Fatigue level and gains one extra botch die on all activities for the day. She will likely not appreciate being woken up in daylight hours. This routine is commonly taken by characters with the Nocturnal Personality Flaw.''
''Addled: The maga works an average of two extra hours per day in the lab, and may take at most five rest days in the season. Due to the extra hours worked, she gains +3 to the Lab Total for the season. She has devised some eccentric means of avoiding fatigue from this extra work, such as smoking magical herbs, drinking faerie wine, casting spells on herself, or perhaps just working herself up into a frenzy. This has the following negative effects: for every two such seasons, gain one Warping Point and three extra botch dice on all activities for the season (including lab activities).''
''A maga working under these conditions is also likely to become dependent on whatever drugs she consumes or magics she works, and to become known as not being safe to be around. As soon as she stops using this lab routine, she must recover from her excesses by making a Stamina – Addicted Personality Trait roll against an Ease Factor of three times the number of consecutive Addled seasons. If this roll fails, she suffers adverse effects for the following season. For every point by which the roll fails, subtract one from her Lab Total (if working in the lab). For every five points by which the roll fails, or fraction thereof, subtract one from her Advancement Total (if studying), and she loses a Long-Term Fatigue level for the whole season. If the roll fails by more than 20 points, she spends the entire season debilitated (at the Dazed Fatigue level), and can do no useful work.''
''For example, Carolus undergoes four consecutive Addled seasons during which he smokes faerie herbs. At the end of the four seasons, he has gained two Warping Points, and the storyguide decides to increase his Addicted Personality Trait to +2. His Stamina is +1. Carolus’s player rolls a six, for a total of five, missing the required Ease Factor of 12 by seven points. Thus, Carolus must spend the next season at the Weary Fatigue level, and he suffers either –7 to his Lab Total, or –2 to his Advancement Total for that season.''
''Overtime: The maga works an average of two extra hours per day in the lab, and may take at most five rest days in the season. Due to the extra hours worked, she gains +3 to the Lab Total for the season. Due to fatigue and isolation, she suffers the following negative effects: –1 to her Living Conditions modifier for any year in which she has taken at least one''
''Overtime season; for every four such seasons, she gains one Warping Point; she suffers –3 to Wound Recovery rolls for the season; she spends the entire season at the Winded Fatigue level or below; and she rolls one extra botch die on all activities for the season (including lab activities).''
''Double Overtime: The maga works an average of four extra hours per day in the lab, and may take at most two rest days in the season. Due to the extra hours worked, she gains +6 to the Lab Total for the season. Due to fatigue and isolation, she suffers the following negative effects: –2 to her Living Conditions modifier and an extra Aging roll for any year in which she has taken at least one Double Overtime season; for every two such seasons, she gains one Warping Point; she suffers –6 to Wound Recovery rolls for the season; she spends the entire season at the Weary Fatigue level or below; and she rolls two extra botch die on all activities for the season (including lab activities).''
''Triple Overtime: The maga works an average of six extra hours per day in the lab, and may not take any rest days at all in the season. Due to the extra hours worked, she gains +9 to the Lab Total for the season. Due to fatigue and isolation, she suffers the following negative effects: –3 to her Living Conditions modifier for any year in which she has taken at least one Triple Overtime season; for every such season, she makes an extra Aging roll and gains one Warping Point; she suffers –9 to Wound Recovery rolls for the season; she spends the entire season at the Tired Fatigue level or below; and she rolls three extra botch die on all activities for the season (including lab activities).''

==Laboratory Personalization Rules==

''After settling in to her standard and average laboratory, a young maga sooner or later starts to consider the possibilities of adding a little personal touch and flavor to her workspace. Doing so helps her to feel a greater sense of identity and comfort with her own lab, but perhaps more importantly, the lab also becomes more effective in her preferred areas of research. Needless to say, labs usually grow to become colored according to the''
''personal habits and magical specialties of a maga. A long-established laboratory tells a great deal about its owner, in its features and outfittings, as well as in its cleanliness and orderliness.''
''The following sections introduce new statistics for laboratories : they have Characteristics, Virtues and Flaws, Specializations (which are analogous to Abilities for human characters), and possibly also Personality Traits.''
''Each laboratory is characterized by a set of eight Characteristics, with a standard (default) lab starting with scores of 0 in each. Unlike human Characteristics, however, these values are relatively easy to change. Labs with a positive Warping Characteristic also have one or more Personality Traits. Each lab may also have a number of Virtues and Flaws, which may be Major (worth three points), Minor (worth one point), or Free (worth 0 points), just as for human characters. Certain Virtues and Flaws may grant a lab a small number of Specializations. A Specialization adds its score to any Lab Total with a particular Art or type of activity. For example, a lab might have the Specializations “Spells 1” and “Creo 2.”''

==Laboratory Characteristics==

''The eight Laboratory Characteristics are as follows: Size, Refinement, General Quality, Upkeep, Safety, Warping, Health, and Aesthetics.''
''Apart from Warping, which cannot be negative, each Characteristic may be positive, negative, or zero. A standard lab starts with all Characteristics at zero.''
''To determine the Characteristics of a non-standard laboratory, proceed as follows:''
''Select the Size and Refinement scores according to the descriptions of these Characteristics below. Set the Safety to be equal to the Refinement. If the occupied Size (see below) is greater than zero, subtract it from the Safety. Set the scores of the remaining five Characteristics to zero. For each of the lab’s Virtues and Flaws, apply any adjustments to the Characteristics that they specify.''
''1.''
''2.''
''3.''

===Size===

''Size specifies broadly how much floor space is provided by the physical structure of the laboratory. The larger the laboratory is, the more benefits (Virtues) it can accommodate. Thus, each point of Size adds to the maximum permitted sum of Virtue points minus Flaw points (see Virtues and Flaws, below).''
''It is sometimes necessary to use the occupied Size, which might be less than the Size. More often than not, the laboratory is filled to capacity (there is no more room for extra points of Virtues), in which case the occupied Size is simply equal to the Size. However, if the lab space is not fully used, then the occupied Size is equal to the Size minus the number of free points available for new Virtues. (This is exactly the same as the number of points of Virtues minus Flaws, minus the Refinement.) For example, a lab with Size +4 and Refinement 0, and two points of Virtues minus Flaws, has an occupied Size of +2. In this case, the occupied Size is given in parentheses, so for this example, the Size would be written as “+4 (+2).”''
''Despite the extra Virtues that they may accommodate, most magi do not opt to have a significantly above-average''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Second Laboratories==

''The vast majority of magi have only one laboratory. The expense and effort of maintaining a second lab is usually not worthwhile, and most magi prefer to have one really good lab, rather than two mediocre ones. Also, the Peripheral Code only allows a magus to maintain one sanctum, which means that a magus with two labs will only have one that is legally protected, unless both labs are sufficiently close together so as to fit inside the same sanctum.''
''Nevertheless, some elderly and rich magi do maintain second laboratories. This might be to cater to several conflicting preferences, because the magus regularly travels to some remote location, or out of sheer vanity. It is somewhat common for covenants to maintain some additional labs, either for communal work, for guests, or for the extraction of vis from some remote magical aura. It should also be noted that a laboratory must occupy a single chamber. Installing lab equipment onto two separate floors of a tower, for example, counts as two separate labs.''

|}
''sized lab. This is because labs with positive Size have two drawbacks.''
''Firstly, the more a laboratory is expanded, the more unmanageable and dangerous it becomes — it becomes harder to oversee it all, and it takes longer to get around it. Magi can only cope with a certain extent of equipment and outfittings before they begin to lose track of it all. For this reason, and as stated above, the occupied Size (if positive) subtracts from the lab’s base Safety. (Since Refinement has the opposite effect, however, this penalty may be offset by taking a Refinement at least as high as the Size.) There is no Safety benefit to an occupied Size less than zero.''
''Secondly, it looks slightly ridiculous if a chamber is far larger than it needs to be to accommodate a laboratory. It is not aesthetically pleasing if, for example, all of a magus’s furniture and equipment squats in the middle of a much larger room, surrounded by an echo chamber of unused space which merely gathers dust and cobwebs. For this reason, for every full two points by which the Size exceeds the occupied Size, you should take the Empty Flaw. For example, a lab with Size +5 (0) should take the Empty Flaw twice.''
''Size Square feet –3 100 –2 200 –1 350 0 500 +1 650 +2 800 +3 1000 +4 1250 +5 1500''
''A lab cannot be smaller than Size –3. However, there is no upper limit; for each additional 500 square feet beyond 1500, add a further +1 to Size.''

===Refinement===

''Refinement is a measure of the expertise and time taken to assemble the contents of the lab efficaciously. The more experienced a maga is, the more efficiently she can make use of the available space. Just like Size, therefore, each point of Refinement adds to the maximum permitted number of Virtue points minus Flaw points (see Virtues and Flaws, below). Highly-refined labs can thus either be smaller than normal, without needing to suffer Flaws, or permit more points of Virtues than would otherwise be possible.''
''A freshly assembled lab starts with a Refinement score of 0, unless the assembler has a Magic Theory of less than 3, in which case its Refinement score is equal to her Magic Theory – 3. However, for a maga with a Magic Theory of more than 3, the starting Refinement score is always 0, no matter how high her Magic Theory.''
''The rules for increasing a lab’s Refinement are quite straightforward: A maga must be familiar with the lab in question (as a rule of thumb, she must have have worked in the lab for a number of years equal to the existing Refinement score) and have a Magic Theory equal to at least the desired Refinement score, plus 3. Increasing the Refinement by one point takes a season of work, during which time the lab’s contents are optimized and rearranged. For example, a maga with a Magic Theory of 5 and a lab with a Refinement 0 can spend one season to increase the Refinement to +1, and a further season to increase it to +2.''
''Such a season of work also gives a chance to gain the Highly Organized and Spotless Virtues, or to gain or lose the Hidden Defect Flaw. Make an Intelligence + Magic Theory stress roll. If this meets an Ease Factor of 12, Highly Organized is gained. If this also meets an Ease Factor of 15, then any existing Hidden Defect Flaw may be spotted and corrected (the Flaw is removed). However, if the roll results in a botch, the Hidden Defect Flaw is gained. If you wish, you may also make a Tidy (or other relevant Personality Trait) roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If this succeeds, the Spotless Virtue is gained. See below for the effects of these two Virtues and the Hidden Defect Flaw.''
''Whenever the Refinement score increases by one, the occupied Size decreases by one, since one extra point has been made available for Virtues. Since the base Safety of a lab is equal to Refinement – occupied Size (if positive), whenever the Refinement score increases''
''by one, the net Safety increase is either one point (if the new occupied Size is negative) or two points (otherwise).''
''For example, Darius (when he has a Magic Theory of 4) spends a season to increase the Refinement of his standard laboratory (with all Characteristics equal to zero, and no Virtues or Flaws) to +1. This causes the occupied Size to drop to –1 and the Safety to increase to +1. There is now free space for one Minor Virtue. If, in the next season, he installs such a Virtue, the occupied Size returns to 0, and the Safety stays at +1. Later on, he has an extension to the chamber constructed, increasing its Size to +1 (0) and allowing space for one more Minor Virtue. When he spends a further season to install such a Virtue, the occupied Size increases to +1 and the Safety thus drops to 0. Later still (when Darius has increased his Magic Theory to 5) he spends a further season to increase the Refinement to +2. This causes the occupied Size to drop to 0 and the Safety to increase to +2. When he spends another season to install his third Minor Virtue, the occupied Size returns to +1, and the Safety drops to +1.''

===General Quality===

''General Quality is simply an overall measure of the effectiveness of the lab in all areas. General Quality adds to all Lab Totals. This bonus (or penalty, if the General Quality is negative) applies in addition to any other Lab Total adjustments (such as from Specializations). This Characteristic has no effect on teaching or the scribing of texts.''

===Upkeep===

''Upkeep specifies the monetary cost of building and maintaining the lab. For example, a lab with priceless ingredients may have a better General Quality, but it is also more expensive to maintain. A lab with an Upkeep of zero costs five pounds to build and one pound per typical year of use to maintain. See Chapter 5: Wealth and Poverty, Expenditure for the costs of labs with other Upkeep scores.''
''There may be insufficient money to maintain a lab at its current Upkeep. In this case, after two seasons of use with neglected maintenance, a new Flaw is gained automatically (or an existing Virtue lost), which reduces the Upkeep. This may need to be repeated (after another two seasons) until the Upkeep drops to an affordable level. For example, Semita Errabunda experiences a tempo''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Size and Refinement Summary==


===Limit of Virtue Points Minus Flaw Points: Size + Refinement===


===Occupied Size: Current Virtue Points Minus Flaw===


===Points – Refinement===


===Base Safety of Lab: Refinement – Occupied Size (If===


===Greater Than Zero)===


|}
''rary financial crisis, and can only afford to spend one pound per year on Darius’s Upkeep +2 laboratory (which normally needs three pounds per year). After two seasons, the lab gains a Flaw, which reduces the Upkeep to +1, and after a further two seasons, another Flaw, taking the Upkeep to 0.''
''If a new Virtue or Flaw (or its removal) results in an increase to Upkeep, then the difference between the old and new build costs (which are one pound per two points of the lab; see Chapter 5: Wealth and Poverty) must be paid. For example, raising a lab’s Upkeep from +2 to +4 (an increase of 70 points) costs 35 pounds. Thereafter, maintenance is paid at the new, higher rate. However, if the Upkeep score should drop, there is no refund.''

===Safety===

''The higher the Safety, the lower the risk of lab accidents, and vice versa. The Safety score is subtracted from the number of botch dice on all lab activities. (Thus, a negative Safety results in more botch dice.) Labs with a zero or better Safety are fairly trustworthy places — there is only a significant danger of an accident with certain categories of lab activities (those requiring a stress roll, such as when using experimentation, or when studying from vis). Labs with a negative Safety, however, are deemed unsafe. With an unsafe lab, there is always the risk of an accident, no matter what type of lab work is undertaken. While some magi are prepared to accept the risk of a slightly negative Safety, such as –1 or –2, only reckless magi are prepared to work repeatedly in a highly unsafe lab.''
''For each season of work in an unsafe lab, roll a simple die. (This extra roll is in addition to any others that may be made, such as for experimentation or study from vis.) If the result is less than or equal to the absolute value of the Safety (in other words, ignore the minus sign), there is a chance of suffering a lab botch. If that happens, roll the usual number of botch dice (including the extra dice for having a negative Safety). For this roll, you cannot have no botch dice; there is always a minimum of at least one. In the event of a botch, a lab accident is suffered — roll on the Disaster sub-chart of the Experimentation: Extraordinary Results chart (see ArM5, page 109). Add the absolute value of the Safety score to the risk modifier, but do not let it exceed +3.''
''For example, Helvius spends a season to invent a spell (something that would normally be safe, and not require a roll)''
''in his laboratory, which has a Safety of –2. Helvius’s player rolls a simple die, getting a one, which is less than or equal to two, so there is a chance of suffering a lab botch. He then rolls for botch with two botch dice (the base number of none for this activity, plus two for the Safety score). One of the dice comes up zero, for a lab accident. Helvius’ player groans at his misfortune and makes a roll on the Disaster chart. He rolls a five; with Helvius’ Perception of 0, and the risk modifier of +2, the result is 7, indicating a threat to the entire covenant! The storyguide decides it is time for the dragon who slumbers beneath his lab to begin stirring.''

===Warping===

''A laboratory with a zero Warping score produces consistent and predictable results (at least, it does if it isn’t unsafe and the magus using it doesn’t engage in experimentation). A lab with a positive Warping score, however, sometimes yields altered or unintended results. For each season of lab work, roll a simple die. If the result is less than or equal to the Warping score, then the product of that season’s work (be it an item, spell, or something else) suffers Warping. Warping on lab work is not the same as for characters; instead refer to the Experimentation: Extraordinary Results chart (see ArM5, page 109). If the outcome of the simple die was odd, roll once for a side effect. If the outcome was even, roll once for a modified effect. The specifics of the effect should be chosen by the storyguide as appropriate for the cause(s) of the Warping. For example, an item enchanted in an invisible lab might be found to be invisible itself, once it is finished and removed from the lab.''
''A lab with a positive Warping score should also be assigned one or more Personality Traits, with a total score or scores equal to the Warping score. For example, a lab with a Warping score of +1, due to faerie ingredients, might gain the Personality Trait Whimsical +1. These Personality Traits tend to color the experience of the lab’s owner and any other residents or guests, and are suggestive of suitable Warping effects, both for Warping on lab work, and on any character Warping suffered by the inhabitant(s). At the storyguide’s discretion, a Personality Trait may be added to a Lab Total for an effect that matches it closely, or subtracted from a Lab Total for an opposite effect.''

===Health===

''The environment of a laboratory might be either beneficial or detrimental to the health of its owner. A lab with a positive Health score might be especially snug, comfortable, or clean, whereas a lab with a negative Health might be drafty, awkward to get around, or bear a foul stench. The Health score adds to any Wound Recovery rolls for inhabitants of the lab. Also, half of the Health score (rounded down) adds to the Living Conditions modifier (used for Aging rolls) for inhabitants, provided that they spend at least half of the year there. In this way, the Living Conditions modifier of a lab (or sanctum) might differ from that of the covenant as a whole.''
''For example, the lab of Igor Rastvan has a Health of +2, giving +1 to the Living Conditions modifier. His covenant of Roznov has a base Living Conditions modifier of +2 for magi, therefore, his total Living Conditions modifier is +3.''

===Aesthetics===

''Aesthetics is a measure of the impressiveness, splendor, and luxury of the laboratory. While this is mostly a question of personal comfort and preferences, the aesthetic quality of a lab may affect the prestige enjoyed by its owner, influencing her standing amongst her peers. The Aesthetics score suggests the typical impression the lab makes on visitors, and whether or not it is favorable. For every point of Aesthetics, either positive or negative, the owner gains five experience points in an appropriate Reputation. These points might not all be gained immediately, especially if few people visit the laboratory. Sooner or later, however, rumors will spread , even if they are based mostly on speculation, especially among the covenfolk.''
''For example, Lutisse has a lab with Aesthetics –2. She gains ten experience points in her Impoverished Hedge Wizard Reputation.''

==Laboratory Specializations==

''Laboratories that have Specializations are particularly well suited to one or more types of lab work or to certain Arts, providing a bonus (in almost all cases, to the Lab Total) equal to their value. These benefits arise, either by design or by accident, from certain properties of the lab and its outfittings, according to the law of sympathy. For example, a brightly lit lab is more suited to Imaginem, a lab with a water feature is suited to Aquam, and a lab with caged slaves is suited to Corpus.''
''A lab can have at most two activity Specializations, plus four Art Specializations (at most two of which can be Techniques). Bonuses to Lab Totals from all applicable Specializations are cumulative. The value of an Art Specialization adds to any Lab Total (but not Advancement Total) involving that''
''Art. The following is a list of possible activity Specializations.''
''Experimentation: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when experimenting (see ArM5, page 107).''
''Familiar: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when binding or enchanting a familiar.''
''Items: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when enchanting items and when investigating enchanted items.''
''Longevity Rituals: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when creating a Longevity Ritual.''
''Spells: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when inventing a spell.''
''Teaching: The value of the Specialization adds to all training and teaching source qualities, whenever training or teaching is performed in the lab. However, this can provide a bonus of at most three points.''
''Texts: The value of the Specialization adds to all Lab Totals when inventing a''
''spell with the benefit of a Lab Text, as well as to Lab Totals for translating Lab Texts. For every full three points of this Specialization, the lab’s user may also add one to her Profession: Scribe score whenever copying Lab Texts and books, and one to her relevant Language Ability when writing Lab Texts and books.''
''Vis Extraction: The value of the Specialization adds to the Lab Total for vis extraction.''
''Specializations are gained due to Virtues (most notably Features and Magic Items) and sometimes also due to Flaws. Therefore, to determine the Specializations of a magus’s lab (if any), simply total up the Specializations described by each of its Virtues and Flaws. (Note that for some of them, you are able to choose the Specialization). If you find that the laboratory has more than the allowed number of Specializations, you must drop one or more of them. You do not need to drop any Virtues or Flaws; just choose which Specializations you least want, and strike them out. Once made, however,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Experimentation: The lab might be equipped with bizarre custom outfittings, or have a non-standard configuration that appears confusing or even dangerous to the uninitiated.''
''Familiar: Such a lab often resembles one with a specialization in Animal. It likely features a prominent pen or dwelling for a familiar.''
''Items: The lab usually resembles a kind of workshop, with a great variety of tools, and is likely to be smelly, dirty, or noisy.''
''Longevity Rituals: The lab often closely resembles one with a specialization in Creo or Corpus. It might feature a pallet where a live subject can be examined.''
''Spells: This Specialization is not usually immediately obvious, as the lab differs in only subtle ways from the norm. It may feature a large empty space, such as a summoning circle, where spells are tested.''
''Teaching: The lab is usually comfortable, with a preordained position for both master and pupil, such as a desk before a teaching pulpit.''
''Texts: The lab usually features a prominent desk or bookstand, contains a wide variety of writing materials, and is well lit.''
''Vis Extraction: Such a lab often features some kind of measuring or refining''
''contraption, such as an elaborate still, and numerous containers for vis.''
''Creo: The lab is often brightly lit, clean, or contains many growing things. It is usually a pleasant environment.''
''Intellego: Such an esoteric lab might contain many books or astronomical devices, as well as viewing objects such as orbs or a scrying pool.''
''Muto: The lab might appear chaotic or in a state of constant change. Perhaps the owner is continually rearranging things.''
''Perdo: The lab might be dark or dirty, possibly containing decaying or dead things. It is often an unpleasant place.''
''Rego: Such a lab is tidy and well ordered, with everything neatly arranged.''
''Animal: This Specialization is usually evident from the lab’s feral smell. It may contain numerous fauna specimens, dead or alive, and the floor may be littered with straw, fur, or droppings.''
''Aquam: The lab almost always features some kind of water, either still or flowing, and may be damp.''
''Auram: Such a lab is often spacious, with a high ceiling, and might feature a window or balcony, or even be exposed to the elements.''
''Corpus: The lab might contain human corpses and body parts, such as''
''blood, bones, and skin, or even live subjects. Perhaps it resembles a surgery, with the tools of a chirurgeon present.''
''Herbam: Such a lab predictably features plants, either in pots, or growing out of the floor or walls, or the lab itself might be built of living wood. It may have a smell of foliage, blossom, or wood.''
''Ignem: The lab is usually very well heated, with multiple fireplaces or a furnace, or it may be lit by many hundreds of candles. It may smell of smoke or sulfur.''
''Imaginem: The lab may be extravagantly decorated, or even partly illusory. Alternately or additionally, it may give the impression of having some other Specialization, since it is not all it seems.''
''Mentem: Such a lab is often puzzling and elaborate, and may feature esoteric toys or ornate mirrors.''
''Terram: The lab is often subterranean, and is usually solidly built, with an earthy or mineral smell. Many samples of metals, gems, or crystals may be present.''
''Vim: Such a Specialization is usually hard to spot, as there is no characteristic appearance, apart perhaps from an increased overall complexity.''

==Laboratory Specializations and Appearance==


|}
''the choice of dropped Specializations is fixed — you can only change it when the magus undertakes a season of work to improve the Refinement of the lab.''

==Laboratory Virtues and Flaws==

''Just as for characters, Virtues for labs reflect some kind of merit, improvement, or advantage, whereas Flaws reflect a drawback, deficiency, or story opportunity. The most important rule to bear in mind is that the number of points spent on Virtues, minus the number of points spent on Flaws, cannot exceed the Size + Refinement of the lab. The sum of these two Characteristics specifies the overall available space for the installment of improvements. Virtues with a point cost take up a certain amount of space, whereas Flaws with a point cost free up space, or allow the lab to be smaller. Free Virtues and Flaws make a negligible contribution to space. For example, a lab with a Size of +1 and a Refinement of +1 (for a total of +2) might have one Major Virtue and one Minor Virtue (+4 points) and two Minor Flaws (–2 points) as well as a number of Free Virtues and Flaws. A standard lab of Size 0 or greater starts with no Virtues and Flaws, but a lab smaller than the standard, or less refined, automatically starts with sufficient points of Flaws to pay for its negative Size + Refinement.''
''Most laboratory Virtues and Flaws can only be taken once — those few that can be taken multiple times are marked with asterisks in the list below. Two of these Virtues in particular, Feature and Magic Item, come in a multitude of types and are described in more detail later. The storyguide may always adjust the benefits of particular Virtues and Flaws as she sees fit, and is encouraged to devise new ones in consultation with the players.''

===Virtues===

''A laboratory has free space for one or more new Virtues if its current points of Virtues minus points of Flaws is less than the Size + Refinement, and thus the occupied Size is less than the overall Size statistic. If there are sufficient points of free space, a Virtue can be taken without a corresponding Flaw. Otherwise, one or more Flaws must be taken simultaneously to balance it. A magus who wishes to install a Virtue (Minor or Major) into a standard laboratory thus has four choices:''
''either first spend a season to increase the Refinement to +1 (requiring a Magic Theory of 4), accept a Flaw to balance the Virtue, somehow increase the physical space of the existing lab, or move into a bigger lab. Free Virtues have no point cost and are thus not restricted in this way.''
''Virtues are not simply chosen and gained automatically — there may be a cost in time, money, or vis, and there may be additional specific requirements (see the list below). As a general rule, it takes one season of work to gain a Minor Virtue, and two seasons to gain a Major Virtue. This time is occupied with constructing or installing the improvement. The person doing this work needs to have a Magic Theory score at least three points higher than the lab’s Refinement. Free Virtues have no space and (usually) no seasonal construction requirement. They may be gained in a day or so, if the relevant materials are procured, or if the relevant circumstances are satisfied.''
''Sometimes, a magus might wish to remove Virtues. This is not always possible, since some Virtues are due to fundamental properties of the lab (such as its physical location) that can not readily be changed. Where it is possible, a Minor or Major Virtue can only be removed during a season or more of work to improve the laboratory (either by increasing the Refinement, or installing a different Virtue). For example, a magus can remove an existing Lesser Feature and replace it with a new one, in one season. Where it is possible to remove a Free Virtue, it can usually be done in a day or so.''

===Flaws===

''Flaws may be chosen, arise due to general neglect, or be selected to free up points of space to balance a new Virtue. There is no limit on their number and they take effect immediately. In the event of a lack of funds, you may also be forced to take a Flaw resulting in a lower Upkeep (see the Upkeep section, above).''
''Just as for Virtues, some Flaws can later be removed, whereas others are due to fundamental properties of the lab, and cannot be altered. If removing a Minor or Major Flaw, the magus needs to have sufficient free points of space, since the occupied Size will increase. Where possible and unless otherwise stated, removing a Free or Minor Flaw usually takes one season and removing a Major Flaw takes two seasons. This time is occupied with repairing or restoring the faulty component, but it can be combined with a season spent improving the Refinement.''
''For example, a lab might start out with Size –1, Refinement 0, and the Cramped Flaw. With a Magic Theory of 4, one season of work will suffice both to increase the Refinement to +1 and eliminate the Cramped Flaw.''

==Structure Virtues and Flaws==

''These Virtues and Flaws are due to the physical structure and basic arrangement of the laboratory, and its location. Gaining or losing them usually entails some kind of construction project on or within the lab, or on the immediate surroundings.''

===Major Structure Virtues===

''Greater Feature*: The lab prominently features a unique and extensive structure that aids certain types of lab work — see the list of possible Features below. +2 Aesthetics; 3 points on appropriate Specialization(s).''
''Natural Environment: A swathe of natural scenery, such as forest, desert, or a river, is located in the lab, or the lab is built in or around it. +2 Aesthetics; 3 points among Specializations in Cr, An, Aq, Au, He, Ig, or Te, depending upon terrain type.''

===Minor Structure Virtues===

''Auspicious Shape: The lab or its building is formed into a magically beneficial shape, such as a hexagon or pentagram. A circle or square does not count. +1 Aesthetics; +1 Vi.''
''Extensive Stores: The lab’s large stores mean that it can withstand shortages better. In the case of a lack of funds, the lab can last six seasons before a Flaw must be selected to lower the Upkeep, instead of the usual two. However, a one-time payment of a number of pounds equal to the lab’s yearly maintenance cost must be made when this Virtue is added, to stock up the stores in the first place. Vis and dangerous materials can also be stored more safely. +2 Safety.''
''Gallery: The lab is fitted with an interior gallery or platform, designed to allow someone to view the whole of the lab without disturbing it. +1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Teaching.''
''Lesser Feature*: The lab features a unique structure that aids certain types of lab work — see the list of possible''
''Features below. +1 Aesthetics; 1 point on an appropriate Specialization.''
''Spacious: The lab has enough spare room that its outfittings can be spread out a little. If building a lab from scratch and if space permits, you may choose to start with this Virtue, without needing an extra season of work. +2 Safety, +1 Aesthetics.''
''Well Insulated: The lab is especially well shielded from the outside world, due to an extra partition wall or a layer of thick curtains, perhaps. Little noise or disturbance emerges from within, making it suitable for a sensitive location such as a city. +1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics.''

===Free Structure Virtues===

''Dedicated Building: The lab (and probably the living quarters of the owner) is in its own building, shared with no one''
''else. There are likely to be fewer distractions. +1 Upkeep, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Re.''
''Defenses: The lab has some kind of sturdy defense, such as a portcullis or battlements. +1 Aesthetics.''
''Elevated: The lab is located at least four floors up, or on the top floor of a tower, which affords a commanding view of the surroundings. +1 Aesthetics; +1 Au.''
''Grand Entrance: An elaborate and sizable entranceway, such as a great door or arch, an opulent lobby, or perhaps a reception room leads to the lab. This takes up more of the sanctum space, but not usually of the laboratory chamber itself. It often takes a season or more for craftsmen to build or outfit. The sanctum marker is likely displayed prominently. The lab at least looks good from the outside, so casual observers are likely to be impressed. +2 Aesthetics.''
''Idyllic Surroundings: The lab is located some way by itself, in a charming and peaceful location, such as in a beautiful vale or garden. +2 Health, +1 Aesthetics; 1 point on a Specialization in Cr, An, Aq, He, or Te, depending upon terrain type.''
''Mobile: The entire lab can be readily moved. For example, it might be located on a ship or (if it is very small) a cart. This Virtue is usually taken with the Unstable Flaw. +1 Experimentation.''
''Mountaintop: The lab is located at the peak of a mountain. This is a dramatic and remote setting with a spectacular view, prone to strong winds and snows. –1 Safety, +1 Upkeep, +2 Aesthetics; +2 Au.''
''Superior Construction: The lab benefits from distinguished construction techniques, for example, high quality building materials were used, or it was made by a master architect or a magus (such as with the spell Conjuring the Mystic Tower). If constructing the building, its cost is doubled. +1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics.''
''Studio: An ornate room just outside the lab proper is set aside for the sole purpose of displaying and showing off the owner’s most prized possessions to guests. Verditius magi commonly build studios in order to display the items they have crafted to potential customers (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults). The studio takes up more of the sanctum space, but not usually of the laboratory chamber itself. +1 to +3 Aesthetics, depending on the number and magnificence of items displayed.''

===Free Structure Flaws===

''Deformed: Part of the structure has subsided or is otherwise warped. For example, one wall has partially collapsed into rubble, and has to be propped up. –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Mu or Pe.''
''Disguised: The lab or its entrance is protected by some mundane concealment, such as a hidden door. –1 Aesthetics.''
''Empty*: The lab has a large amount of empty, unused space. A lab that is much bigger than it needs to be is a disadvantage since it costs more to maintain the empty space — it takes more to heat, light, and clean the chamber. Alternatively, if the empty space is neglected, it gathers dirt and cobwebs, or causes drafts . This Flaw should be taken for every full two points by which the Size of the lab exceeds the occupied Size. As soon as the empty space is filled up, this Flaw is lost. –1 Aesthetics, either +1 Upkeep or –1 Health.''
''Low Ceiling*: The ceiling is lower than the requisite ten feet, which slightly hampers some magical activities. This Flaw should be taken twice if the ceiling is''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''If using the customized covenant creation rules (see ArM5, page 71), the baseline is that there is one standard laboratory (Size 0, Refinement 0) for each member of the covenant. Extra (spare) labs cost 50 Build Points each. For each magus who completely lacks a lab, 50 Build Points are gained. To determine the Build Point cost of labs that are either larger or smaller than average, multiply their Size Characteristics by 20.''
''One or more labs might start out with Minor or Major Virtues, if they have sufficient space (or if they are balanced with Flaws). Each Minor Virtue costs ten Build Points and each Major Virtue costs 20 Build Points. Free Virtues and all Flaws do not cost any Build Points. Note that starting laboratories with negative Size need to take one or more Flaws (Minor or Major) automatically.''
''For example, a covenant which starts with Size +2 labs for two of its magi (80 Points), Size 0 labs for the remaining magi, a spare Size 0 lab (50 Points), and a total of three Minor Virtues (30 Points) and one Major Virtue (20 Points) costs a total of 180 Build Points. If the Build Point total for the labs is negative, Build Points are freed up, which may be spent elsewhere.''
''It is suggested that labs for starting magi in a Spring covenant should begin with few or no Virtues or Flaws. Only those Virtues and Flaws that are intrinsic to the structure or location should be taken. For example, if the''
''lab is underground, the Subterranean Flaw should be taken. At the storyguide’s option, a small number of Free Virtues and an equal number of Free Flaws may be taken, provided that the Upkeep does not increase beyond zero. If the covenant has the Wealth Boon, on the other hand, then Free Virtues that require only an increase to Upkeep may be taken without a corresponding Free Flaw, if desired. With the Poverty Hook, it is suggested that the average Upkeep score for all labs should not be higher than –2 (if Minor) or –5 (if Major).Take a sufficient number of Flaws accordingly.''
''Labs in established covenants, on the other hand, especially Autumn or Winter covenants, might have more Virtues and Flaws, as might the labs of experienced magi. The storyguide should determine the labs of starting magi in an established covenant. For example, they might have one or more Supernatural Virtues and Flaws. For experienced magi, the Build Point total of the lab’s Virtues should be subtracted from their experience point total, instead of from the covenant’s Build Point total, under the assumption that they were responsible for the improvements. This is due to the time required to achieve the Virtues; each Minor Virtue, taking one season, costs ten points, and each Major Virtue, taking two seasons, costs 20 points, according to the rules for generating magi after apprenticeship (see ArM5, page 32).''

==Build Point Cost for Starting Laboratories==


|}
''less than eight feet, or thrice if the magus has to stoop (in which case also take –2 Health). –1 General Quality, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics.''
''Subterranean: The lab is underground. There is a lack of natural light, and so more candles are required for lighting. +1 Upkeep, –1 Health, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Te.''
''Exposed: The building is partially exposed to the elements. For example, it is unroofed or poorly roofed, or wind blows through large cracks. –1 Safety, +1 Upkeep, –2 Health, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Au.''
''Uneven Floor: The lab has a wonky or dangerous floor. The lab might be in a cave, or maybe the floor is covered with sand or pebbles. –1 Safety, –1 Health, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Mu or Te.''
''Unstable*: The lab is prone to movements, for example it is on a ship, is earthquake-prone, or merely has dodgy foundations, which is the occasional cause of accidents or breakages. This Flaw may be taken more than once for a greater instability. +1 Upkeep, –1 Safety.''
''Vile Surroundings: The lab is located in an undesirable or unpleasant place, such as in a swamp, next to a filthy peasant hovel, or by a dirty and busy road. –2 Health, –1 Aesthetics; 1 point on a Specialization in Pe, An, Aq, Au, or Co, depending upon terrain type.''
''Vulnerable: The lab is lacking even basic defenses, and is easily broken or stumbled into. For example, it is on the ground floor and has no door. –1 Aesthetics.''

===Minor Structure Flaws===

''Awkward Shape: The lab’s chamber is a difficult shape, for example, it is long and thin, or is partitioned in two. –2 Safety, –1 Aesthetics.''
''Cramped: The lab equipment is packed a little too close together for comfort, due to lack of space. This slightly hampers all but one type of lab activity, which is taken as a Specialization. The lab can be reconfigured to change the Specialization with a season of work. (This can be done at the same time as working to increase the Refinement.) –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep, –2 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; 1 point on an activity Specialization.''
''Diminutive: The lab is configured for an especially small magus (Size –1 or less), who may use it normally. However, a normal-sized magus (or a normal-sized assistant) would have (or cause) considerable difficulty. For characters with Size 0 or greater:  –1 General Quality, –2 Safety, –1 Health, –1 Aesthetics).''
''Heinous Architecture: The construction of the chamber is deliberately inauspicious, perverse, or erroneous. –1 General Quality, –2 Safety, +1 Warping, –2 Aesthetics.''
''Lesser Focus: An existing Lesser Feature is the central focus of the lab, enhancing the Feature, but making activities that do not involve its use more difficult. –1 General Quality; 2 points among Specializations provided by the Feature.''
''No Stores: The lab has nowhere to store supplies, and so it cannot withstand any shortages. In case of a lack of funds, compulsory Flaw(s) to reduce the lab’s Upkeep are taken immediately, instead of after the usual two seasons. Vis and dangerous materials cannot be stored very safely. –2 Safety.''
''Poorly Insulated: The lab is poorly shielded from the outside world, perhaps due to thin walls or ceilings. It is easy to hear what is going on inside, and noise from the lab is likely to be a nuisance to nearby people or adjacent floors. –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics.''

===Major Structure Flaws===

''Greater Focus: An existing Greater Feature is the overwhelming focus of the lab, enhancing the Feature, but making activities that do not involve its use more difficult. –2 General Quality; 4 points among Specializations provided by the Feature.''
''Outdoors: The lab (but not necessarily the living quarters of the magus) is not housed in a building at all and is completely exposed to the elements. This Flaw should be taken with the Natural Environment Virtue (although in this case it does not take any time to gain the Virtue, since the natural environment is already present). Size may be increased to any desired number. –1 General Quality, +2 Upkeep, –1 Safety, –2 Health, –3 Aesthetics.''

==Outfittings Virtues and Flaws==

''These Virtues and Flaws are due to the quality and quantity of the mundane materials and equipment that are in the lab, as well as any other inhabitants of the lab. Gaining or losing these Virtues and Flaws thus usually entails the purchase or acquisition of things to put in the lab, or the lack of (or defects in) such things.''

===Major Outfittings Virtues===

''Greater Expansion: The extent of the lab is greatly increased, with at least double the usual amount of equipment. This allows it to have more areas and equipment dedicated to specialized tasks. +2 General Quality, +4 Upkeep, +1 Aesthetics; 2 points on any Specialization(s).''
''Palatial: The lab is lavishly and magnificently outfitted, with the very best of comforts and decoration. +1 General Quality, +3 Upkeep, +2 Health, +4 Aesthetics; +2 Teaching, 1 point on any other Specialization.''

===Minor Outfittings Virtues===

''Excessive Heating: The lab is kept far more warm than is necessary, and has the necessary facilities for it. For example, it has a half-dozen fireplaces. +2 Upkeep, –1 Safety; +2 Ig.''
''Excessive Lighting: The lab is lit far more than is necessary. For example, there are several hundred candles or lamps, which take up more space than usual. +2 Upkeep; +2 Im.''
''Lesser Expansion: The extent of the lab is increased, with some more specialized equipment. +1 General Quality, +2 Upkeep; 1 point on any Specialization.''
''Living Quarters: The lab contains suitable furniture, such as a bed, a wardrobe, and so on, that the owner may live and sleep in it. There is a small benefit to lab work if you live in the lab proper, but it is not good for your health, and is considered somewhat obsessive. +1 General Quality, –1 Safety, –2 Health, –2 Aesthetics.''
''Menagerie: The lab contains a collection of live animals. +1 Upkeep, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +2 An.''
''Opulent: The lab is comfortable and well furnished. +1 Upkeep, +1 Health, +2 Aesthetics; +1 Teaching.''
''Pot Plants: The lab contains dozens of potted plants. +1 Upkeep, +1 Aesthetics; +1 He.''
''Slaves: Human slaves are employed in the lab, either as manual labor or as experimental subjects. +1 Upkeep, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +2 Co or Me.''
''Specimens*: The lab has a large collection of related things, stored in visible containers such as jars, or otherwise serving as objects of study or decoration. +1 Upkeep, +1 Aesthetics; 1 point on any Form Specialization.''
''Superior Decoration: The lab is luxuriantly or generously decorated. For example, many fine tapestries hang on the walls. +1 Upkeep, +2 Aesthetics; +1 Im.''
''Superior Heating: The lab has superior facilities for heating, and the snug occupant is never chilly. For example, there is under-floor heating, or several fireplaces. +1 Upkeep, +1 Health, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Ig.''
''Superior Lighting: The lab is very well lit, so that things are easy to find, and books are easy to read, without eye-strain. +1 Upkeep, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Texts, +1 Im.''

===Free Outfittings Virtues===

''Assistant*: A Gifted assistant (such as an Hermetic apprentice) helps out in the lab, affording a bonus to lab work. +(assistant’s Intelligence + Magic Theory) General Quality. (This is simply a restatement of the existing bonus given in ArM5, page 103.)''
''Guard*: A shield grog is on permanent duty at the lab’s entrance, and may dissuade unwanted visitors from pestering the magus or intruding. +1 Aesthetics.''
''Highly Organized: The lab’s contents have been optimally arranged. There is a chance to gain this Virtue whenever a season of work is undertaken to improve the Refinement (see Refinement, above). A season of such work (with a roll to gain the Virtue) may still be undertaken, even if no increase to Refinement is possible. This Virtue is lost if a major accident is suffered, if someone else uses the lab, or if someone of lower Intelligence helps in it. +1 General Quality.''
''Person*: There is another person, perhaps a close family member or a maid, who is to be found very frequently (as a rule of thumb, most days, for at least an hour) in the lab. This Virtue may be taken once for each such person who regularly comes in to the lab. Do not count the owner or any full-time lab assistants, such as apprentices. A full-time trained mundane assistant is instead represented by the Servant Virtue. –1 Safety; +1 Co or Me.''
''Precious Ingredients: The lab is supplied with more expensive ingredients than a typical covenant can afford.''
''+1 General Quality, +2 Upkeep; +1 Longevity Rituals.''
''Priceless Ingredients: The lab is supplied with the kind of things that most people can only dream of, such as copious quantities of gold and gems. +2 General Quality, +4 Upkeep; +2 Longevity Rituals.''
''Servant: One of the covenfolk is employed as a full-time lab servant, to perform the most mundane or bothersome tasks in the lab, and cater to the needs of the magus. +(servant’s Intelligence / 2, rounding up) Safety, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Me.''
''Spotless: The lab is impeccably clean. This requires a season of work to gain. Also, there is a chance to gain this Virtue whenever a season of work is undertaken to improve the Refinement (see Refinement, above). This Virtue is lost if cleanliness is not maintained, or after an accident or neglect is suffered. +1 Health, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Cr.''
''Superior Equipment: The lab is supplied with higher-quality equipment, for example Venetian glassware. If the equipment was made at the covenant, the craftsman should have a Craft Ability of 6 or more, but do not increase Upkeep. +1 General Quality, +2 Upkeep, +1 Safety; +1 Vis Extraction.''
''Superior Tools: The lab’s tools were produced by master craftsmen. If the tools were made at the covenant, the craftsman should have a Craft Ability of 6 or more, but do not increase Upkeep. +1 Upkeep, +1 Safety; +1 Items.''

===Free Outfittings Flaws===

''Basic: The lab setup is incomplete, and not all the necessary equipment has been installed. This Flaw is acquired after the first season of lab construction (see The Standard Hermetic Laboratory, above). It is removed after the second season of work completes the lab. –3 General Quality.''
''Damaged: The lab is partially damaged, for example as the result of a lab accident. It takes one season to repair the damage and eliminate this Flaw. –2 General Quality, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics.''
''Damp: The lab is waterlogged or moist. Parchment and some ingredients will spoil quickly. +1 Upkeep, –1 Health, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Aq.''
''Decaying: The equipment, furnishings, and materials of the lab are neglected (or have been allowed to go bad). –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +2 Pe.''
''Dirty: The lab is not kept to basic standards of cleanliness. Its owner often emerges from it smelly or dirty, and most''
''visitors find it pretty unbearable. –1 Health, –2 Aesthetics; +1 Pe.''
''Disorganized: The lab is organized in a rather haphazard or carefree fashion. Some magi prefer it this way. –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Mu or Experimentation.''
''Gaudy: The lab’s decoration is tasteless and excessive. +1 Upkeep, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Im.''
''Hidden Defect*: A subtle and potentially dangerous error exists in the lab’s configuration. This is usually the fault of the owner, but it may also be caused by a malicious and clever third party. There is a chance to gain (or lose) this Flaw whenever a season of work is undertaken to improve the Refinement (see Refinement, above). Whenever this defect is the cause of a lab botch, make a Perception + Magic Theory roll against an Ease Factor of 12. If this succeeds, the defect is spotted and may be corrected with a few hours of work. –3 Safety.''
''Inferior Equipment: The lab is outfitted with shoddy wares. It does not take a season to remove this Flaw, if sufficient funds are available to increase the Upkeep. –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep.''
''Inferior Tools: The lab’s tools are crudely crafted, and are prone to breakage. It does not take a season to remove this Flaw, if sufficient funds are available to increase the Upkeep. –1 Upkeep, –1 Safety.''
''Infested: The lab has an animal or plant infestation, for example a nest of mice, a vine, or fungi. Depending on the nature of the infestation, it may not necessarily take a season to remove this Flaw. –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; +1 An or He.''
''Lousy Ingredients: The lab is supplied with dirty, impure, or poor-quality ingredients. It does not take a season to remove this Flaw, if sufficient funds are available to increase the Upkeep. –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep.''
''Missing Ingredients*: Due to a lack of certain ingredients, lab work involving either one specific Technique or two specific Forms is severely hampered — relevant Lab Totals are halved. For example, the lab might contain no silver, in which case Terram and Vim Lab Totals are halved. It does not take a season to remove this Flaw, if sufficient funds are available to increase the Upkeep. –1 Upkeep.''
''Missing Sanctum Marker: The sanctum marker is not prominently displayed, and is thus easy to miss, or it is missing altogether. Hermetic magi might (unwittingly or knowingly) intrude. It does not take a season to remove this Flaw. –1 Aesthetics.''
''Wrecked: The lab is very heavily damaged, for example as the result of a major lab accident. It takes two seasons to repair the damage completely and eliminate this Flaw. (After one season, it may be replaced by the Damaged Flaw.) –5 General Quality, –2 Safety, –2 Aesthetics.''

===Minor Outfittings Flaws===

''Defective Heating: The lab has an inadequate or missing heating mechanism, and is rather too cold for comfort in the winter months. –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep, –1 Health, –1 Aesthetics.''
''Defective Lighting: The lab is poorly lit, making it dingy and gloomy. It can be more difficult to read or find things. –1 General Quality, –1 Upkeep, –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics.''
''Missing Equipment*: Due to a lack of certain equipment, lab work in one or two types of activity is totally impossible. For example, if there is no desk, parchment, or ink, it is impossible to work with texts. If Items, Spells, or Texts is selected, only that single activity is impossible. Otherwise, you must pick two of the activity categories (see the Specialization''
''section above). This Flaw cannot be taken more than twice. –1 Upkeep.''
''Undecorated: The lab has very spartan decoration, or the decoration is completely lacking, making the place rather uninspiring and unwelcoming. –1 Upkeep, –1 Aesthetics; subtract one point from any Specializations with a score of 2 or more.''

===Major Outfittings Flaws===

''Elementary: This is a cut-down version of a Hermetic laboratory, with an extremely limited selection of lab equipment installed, so that only one category of lab activity (see the list of possible activity Specializations above) is possible at all. The type of activity is determined at the time of construction, and is fixed thereafter. Still, such a limited lab is cheaper to maintain and takes only one season to build completely. It might be suitable for an extremely confined space, such as in a small cave, or in a wagon. Some covenants build elementary labs in powerful auras for the purposes of vis extraction. –2 General Quality, –3 Upkeep.''
''Hovel: The lab is very cramped, neglected, and filthy — it amounts to little more than a stinking dump. Most''
''magi would never even consider setting foot in such a wretched hole. –1 General Quality, –2 Upkeep, –2 Safety, –3 Health, –4 Aesthetics.''

==Supernatural Virtues and Flaws==

''These Virtues and Flaws are due to supernatural effects, creatures, or items. The means of gaining or losing these Virtues and Flaws varies widely — most cannot be gained by some straightforward effort on the part of a magus. Some, such as gaining a supernatural guardian, may require a story or a Hermetic breakthrough. Others, such as the presence of a vis source in the lab, or a Hermetic predecessor, are generally choices for the storyguide to make, rather than the player. In the latter case, the player might not be aware of these Virtues and Flaws (and thus the complete statistics of the lab).''

===Major Supernatural Virtues===

''Greater Guardian: A powerful supernatural creature (Might 20 or higher), which is not the familiar of the owner, resides in the lab and acts as its protector, being well-disposed to the owner. Woe betide any who should intrude. +(creature’s Intelligence) Safety, +1 Warping, +1 Aesthetics; 3 points on appropriate Art specialization(s).''
''Greater Horde: A large community of resident minor supernatural creatures are at the owner’s command. They are intelligent enough to serve a protective function and assist with simple lab tasks. +2 General Quality, +1 Upkeep, +(creature’s Intelligence) Safety, +2 Aesthetics; 2 points on Rego or other appropriate Art specialization(s).''

===Minor Supernatural Virtues===

''Familiar: The owner of the lab has a familiar, and the familiar lives in the lab. Perhaps it even helps with lab work. This Virtue assumes that the familiar takes up a non-trivial amount of space. If not, this can be instead taken as a Free Virtue. +(familiar’s Intelligence + Magic Theory) General Quality, +(Golden Cord) Safety. (This is simply a restatement of the existing bonuses given in the Laboratory chapter of ArM5.)''
''Gateway: The lab is located at a supernatural gateway, for example, an entrance to a regio or a faerie realm, or a Mercere Portal. The owner of the lab usually controls access to the gateway, and might get some tangible benefits, such as receiving a toll from those who use''
''the gateway, or simply the ability to pass through the gateway herself. The gateway may be made into a Portal Feature (purchased as usual) and might also be combined with the Thoroughfare Flaw. –1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics; 1 point on Rego or another appropriate Art Specialization.''
''Lesser Guardian: A supernatural creature (less than Might 20), which is not the familiar of the owner, resides in the lab and acts as its protector, being well-disposed to the owner. +1 Safety; 1 point on an appropriate Art specialization.''
''Lesser Horde: A small group of semiintelligent creatures helps out in the lab. +1 General Quality, +1 Upkeep, +1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics; 1 point on Rego or another appropriate Art specialization.''
''Vis Source*: A naturally occurring source of vis is located in the lab. –1 Safety, +1 Warping; 2 points on the appropriate Art Specialization.''

===Free Supernatural Virtues===

''Airborne: The lab flies upon the winds or clouds, and rarely lands. Needless to say, only very powerful magics are able to permanently levitate an entire building, or erect a lab upon a cloud. This Virtue is often combined with the Unstable Flaw, since flying is a tricky business. +1 Upkeep, –2 Safety, +2 Warping, +1 Health, +4 Aesthetics; +1 Experimentation, +4 Au.''
''Boundless: The interior of the lab has an unlimited amount of space, despite the seeming mundane limitations of its structure from the outside. This effect is''
''outside the scope of normal Hermetic magic, but it might have a non-Hermetic or faerie origin. Size may be increased to any desired number. +2 Warping.''
''Enchantment*: The lab itself has been enchanted as a magic item. This may grant Virtues or Flaws, alter Characteristics, or add to Specializations (see the guidelines below, under Magic Items for Laboratories ).''
''Faerie Ingredients: Some of the lab’s stores are supplied by faeries, and have beneficial (if sometimes unpredictable) properties. For example, faerie silver is used in place of real silver. +1 General Quality, 1 Upkeep, +1 Warping; +1 Experimentation, 1 point on an appropriate Specialization.''
''Flawless Equipment: The outfittings of the lab are flawless, perhaps even too perfect to have been crafted by mortal hands. +2 General Quality, +2 Upkeep (unless the equipment is continuously protected, created, or donated by supernatural means, in which case –1 Upkeep); +2 Vis Extraction.''
''Flawless Tools: The craftsman who created such perfect tools as are found in this lab must have been legendary. +1 Upkeep (unless the equipment is continuously protected, created, or donated by supernatural means, in which case –1 Upkeep); +2 Items.''
''Ice Cavern: The lab is located in a structure built of ice that never melts. Either it is located in the extreme north or high up a mountain, or else magic is used to prevent the ice from melting. The owner of such a lab presumably does not mind the cold. +1 Upkeep, +1 Warping, –2 Health (unless immune to the cold), +2 Aesthetics; +2 Re or Te.''
''Inexhaustible Supplies: The lab is blessed with magically replenishing ingredients and consumables, which never run out. –3 Upkeep, +1 Warping.''
''Invisible: The interior of the lab, and its outfittings, are invisible. Naturally, this requires the owner of the lab to have some magical means of seeing them, otherwise he is not going to get very far with his lab work. +1 Warping, halve the Aesthetics score after all other modifications ; +2 Im.''
''Magic Item*: A magic item is installed in the lab. It might be self-made, donated, purchased, or perhaps some kind of artifact which was found in the lab. If the item is very large, taking up a significant amount of space in the lab, then it should be treated as a Minor Virtue instead of a Free Virtue. This may grant Virtues or Flaws, alter Characteristics, or add to Specializations (see the guidelines below).''
''Magical Heating: Heating is provided magically. This Virtue functions as either Superior Heating or Excessive''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Sometimes a maga finds herself in the situation of moving into a lab that was previously owned or used by someone else. If such a lab has a Refinement score of zero or less, or if the lab has a positive Refinement but was designed for transient use (as the spare labs at Durenmar are, for example), then the new owner may simply move in and begin work straight away. In this case, there is no need to change the lab’s statistics. If a lab is unique and has a positive Refinement score, however, then the new owner will find it unfamiliar and must undertake a season of rearrangement (and possibly exploration) before it can be used. This counts as a season spent to increase the Refinement, with a chance to gain the Highly Organized and Spotless Virtues or the Hidden Defect Flaw (as detailed above), except''
''that the resulting Refinement score of the lab is equal to its old Refinement, or the new owner’s Magic Theory – 3, whichever is lower. If the new Refinement score is lower, the lab may now have more points of Virtues minus points of Flaws than is permitted. In this case, one or more Virtues are lost — the lab was sufficiently advanced or exotic that the new owner was unable to incorporate all of its improvements into her method. Finally, the storyguide should secretly make a Perception + Magic Theory roll against an Ease Factor of three times the lab’s original Refinement for the maga. If the roll fails, the Predecessor Flaw is gained, as the lab retains some foibles of the previous owner. If the roll botches, the Hidden Defect Flaw is gained in addition.''

==Taking Over a Laboratory==


|}
''Heating (but without the space and Upkeep cost).''
''Magical Lighting: Lighting is provided magically. This Virtue functions as either Superior Lighting or Excessive Lighting (but without the space and Upkeep cost).''
''Preserved: The lab, or part of its contents, is immune from natural decay. –1 Upkeep, +1 Warping, +2 Health, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Cr.''
''Regio*: The interior of the lab is in a regio, and there is another regio level, which the owner can navigate easily. If there are further regio levels, this Virtue may be taken more than once. +3 Size, +1 Warping.''
''Relocation: The location of the lab in the physical world can be magically adjusted. For example, it is enchanted with a powerful Rego Terram effect. This may provide benefits for travel, but it also makes the lab and its occupant hard to find. +1 Warping (if the relocation is in constant effect); +1 Experimentation.''
''Sentient: The lab seems to have developed an independent mind. This is unlikely to have resulted from Hermetic magic (unless a breakthrough), but could be a result of being many decades in a high-level magic or faerie aura. +1 Warping; +1 Experimentation, +1 Me.''
''Shrouded: The lab is hidden or protected by a supernatural effect such as The Shrouded Glen. +1 Warping, halve the Aesthetics score after all other modifications .''
''Site of Legend: Stories are told about this lab, and legends are associated with it. Any adjustments to Characteristics and Specializations as appropriate.''

===Minor Supernatural Flaws===

''Abyss: The lab contains some kind of magical void, such as a bottomless well. This may be made into a Void Feature (purchased as usual). –2 Safety; +2 Pe.''
''Afire: The lab, or large portions thereof, are engulfed in flames which never die out. This naturally requires some kind of protection or immunity to work in, and it means that whole categories of lab work (for example, research with Corpus, Animal, or Aquam) may be impossible. +1 Upkeep, –3 Safety, +2 Warping, +2 Aesthetics; +1 Experimentation, +3 Ig.''
''Chaotic: The lab or its outfittings are in a constant state of flux or motion. –2 Safety, +1 Warping; +1 Experimentation, +2 Mu or Re.''
''Cursed: The lab suffers from a supernatural curse. Any penalties to Characteristics (often Safety) as may be appropriate.''
''Degenerative: The equipment and ingredients of the lab decay and wear unnaturally quickly. +2 Upkeep, –1 Safety, +1 Warping, –2 Health, –1 Aesthetics; +2 Pe.''
''Gremlins: The lab is home to deliberately disruptive creatures, spirits, or demons. –3 Safety, +1 Warping, –1 Aesthetics; +1 Experimentation, 1 point on an appropriate Art Specialization.''
''Haunted: The lab is home to a haunting spirit, who occasionally disturbs the current owner. +1 Warping, –1 Aesthetics; +2 Me.''
''Impregnable: The lab is completely inaccessible, except through reasonably powerful magic. For example, it is blocked off by a stone wall and requires a Muto Terram spell to access. While the owner is much less likely to be disturbed, fewer people will ever get to see the lab, or they may assume that the owner is rather paranoid. –2 Aesthetics.''
''Inhabitants: Residency in the lab is shared with other creatures who consider the place their home, not a lab. They may be a nuisance to the owner, and vice versa. –1 Safety, –1 Aesthetics; 1 point on an appropriate Art Specialization.''
''Labyrinth: The lab, or at least its exterior portions, consists of some kind of maze or other structural puzzle. Most magi would find this tiresome and unnecessary, but some Criamon magi like to make their labs into labyrinths. –1 Safety, –1 Health, –2 Aesthetics; +2 Me or Vi.''
''Lair: A creature hides or hibernates in the lab, either known or unknown. –1 Safety, +1 Warping; 1 point on an appropriate Art Specialization.''
''Precarious*: The lab is located in a supernaturally dangerous place, such as inside a volcano. This Virtue may be taken more than once, for greater degrees''
''of danger. –1 Safety; 1 point on an appropriate Art Specialization.''
''Predecessor: The lab retains some foibles due to its (notable) previous owner. –1 Safety, +1 Warping; +1 Experimentation.''
''Restriction: The lab either forbids certain activities (one category of lab activity cannot be performed), or otherwise tiresome or expensive rituals or practices are required in order to perform lab work. –1 General Quality or +2 Upkeep as appropriate.''
''Sacrifices: Animal sacrifices are needed in order for the lab to function. +2 Upkeep, –1 Safety, +1 Warping, –1 Health, –3 Aesthetics; 2 points on any Technique or Animal Specialization as appropriate.''
''Thoroughfare: Supernatural creatures, such as gnomes, pass through the lab occasionally and cause a minor nuisance. –1 Safety.''
''Underwater: The lab is filled with water, instead of air, presenting certain logistical difficulties with breathing and moving promptly and precisely from one point to another. Some categories of lab work (for example, working with texts, Auram, or Ignem) may be impossible. +2 Safety, +1 Warping, –2 Aesthetics; +1 Experimentation, +4 Aq.''

===Minor Supernatural Flaws===

''Lesser Illusion*: One of the apparent merits of the lab is but an illusion. Take one Minor Virtue immediately (there is no time cost) to balance this Flaw, but note that it is illusory and its effects are negated completely. For example, the lab may appear to be hung with fine tapestries which do not really exist. In this case, take the Superior Decoration Virtue, but''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Relocating a lab to a new room (possibly in a different covenant altogether) is unfortunately a rather tiresome procedure. Firstly, the contents of the lab must be disassembled and carefully and laboriously packed into sturdy crates. This takes a season of work, although it may delegated to an apprentice, for example. Secondly, the crates must be transported to the new site. Unless aided or performed by magic, there will inevitably be some breakage in transit — the transport counts (and costs) as two entire years of maintenance. Finally, the crates must be unpacked and the lab reassembled. This takes two seasons, since it is basically''
''the same as building a lab from scratch (except that the end result is the same as the  previous lab, not a standard lab). Due to this time and expense, labs are rarely transported (at least not by mundane means). When moving between covenants (or even between rooms in the same covenant), some magi employ magic (such as The Ambulatory Laboratory, above) to move their labs, but most simply abandon their old labs or donate them to other magi. Building a new lab from scratch is an opportunity for a fresh start and a new design concept, perhaps taking advantage of a larger or otherwise superior chamber.''

==Moving a Laboratory==


|}
''do not apply its modifications to the lab’s statistics. +1 Warping, +1 Aesthetics; +1 Im.''
''Lightless: The lab is totally dark and its contents cannot be seen. The owner must devise some other means of spatial perception in order to work normally. –1 Upkeep, +1 Warping, the Aesthetics score cannot exceed –1; +1 Pe or Im.''
''Living: The lab’s structure is in some way alive. For example, it is inside a faerie tree, or in the belly of a slumbering beast. –2 Safety, +2 Warping; 3 points on appropriate Art Specialization(s).''

===Major Supernatural Flaws===

''Greater Illusion*: One of the major parts or aspects of the lab is but an illusion. Take one Major Virtue immediately (there is no time cost) to balance this Flaw, but note that it is illusory and its effects are negated completely. For example, the lab may appear to be twice as large as it really is. In this case, take the Greater Expansion Virtue, but do not apply its modifications to the lab’s statistics. +2 Warping, +2 Aesthetics; +2 Im.''
''Mental Construct: The entire lab (or a significant portion thereof) is all in the mind of the magus, created by a powerful Creo Mentem Ritual spell, perhaps. The Size of the lab (or its imaginary part) cannot be higher than the Intelligence score of the magus. The imaginary parts of the lab may be improved as usual (that is, Virtues and Flaws may be gained, the Refinement may be increased, and so on) with the usual time cost, but disregard any changes to Upkeep, Health, or Aesthetics. Without sophisticated magic, the magus cannot use the lab to bond with a familiar, enchant items or Longevity Rituals, or teach. He probably also cannot extract vis in it. However he can invent spells, work with Laboratory Texts, and study Arts “normally.” –5 Upkeep, +2 Warping, –2 Aesthetics; +3 Me.''

==Laboratory Features==

''Specialized labs often have certain noteworthy or unique structural features (arising from one or more Greater Feature or Lesser Feature Virtues), which aid or inspire certain types of magic. Features may be added to a lab with relatively little disruption, if space permits. Alternatively, the lab may be rearranged such that one Feature becomes the lab’s central focus (in which case, take the Greater Focus or Lesser Focus Flaw, as appropriate). A lab may only have one Focus. In this case, lab''
''activities that are unrelated to the Feature are disadvantaged, but the specialized benefits of the Feature are increased. It takes one season to build or assemble the structure of a Lesser Feature, and two seasons to do the same for a Greater Feature.''
''Some example Features, together with the possible Specializations for each, are listed below. Many labs have a number of these things, but they do not  count as Features unless purchased with either the Greater Feature or Lesser Feature Virtue. The former provides three points of Specialization(s), the latter one point. You may choose to distribute these points among the listed Specializations as you wish. You should also feel free to come up with your own ideas for Features, since just about anything that may be found in a Hermetic laboratory may be made into a Feature.''
''Altar: An ornamental place of ritual worship, such as a raised dais. Specializations: any Technique, Vi.''
''Animal Pen: An enclosure for one or more animals, often a familiar, to dwell. Specializations: Familiar, An.''
''Antechamber: A separate enclosure or compartment. Spells may be cast here in a more secure environment. Specializations: Experimentation, Spells, Re.''
''Astronomical Device: A sophisticated tool for measuring the movements of the heavens, often placed near a window or skylight. The most common type is the astrolabe; an example of a more advanced device is the armillary sphere. Specializations: In, Vi.''
''Balance: An exact weighing device, such as a pair of scales. Specializations: Vis Extraction, In, Re.''
''Balcony: An outdoors balcony, where the magus may cast spells into the open air. Specializations: Spells, Au.''
''Cage: A large cage, usually built of sturdy metal bars, for imprisoning or immobilizing a subject. Specializations: Pe, Re, Co, An.''
''Cauldron: A heavy copper or brass cauldron, for heating and mixing large quantities of ingredients. Specializations: Experimentation, Longevity Rituals, Vis Extraction, Mu, Aq, He, Ig.''
''Desk: A comfortable and stout table, designed for reading and scribing. Specializations: Texts, In.''
''Fireplace: A stone enclosure where fuel is burnt for heating, but where substances may also be heated or immolated. Specializations: Pe, Ig, Im.''
''Forge: A furnace — a more tightly enclosed and robust fireplace often operated by bellows, which yields heat sufficient for the smelting of metals — accompanied by an anvil and smithy. Specializations: Items, Ig, Te.''
''Grave: The burial place of one or more corpses. This may be either a simple earthen grave or something more elaborate, such as a stone sarcophagus. Specializations: Pe, Co.''
''Lofty Ceiling: A light, airy space overhead, for which a tall chamber, perhaps with a vaulted ceiling, is required. Specializations: Au.''
''Loom: A large wooden apparatus for weaving threads into a fabric. Specializations: Re, He.''
''Map: An elaborate and detailed plan or model, accurately illustrating surrounding lands or buildings, perhaps. Specializations: In, Te.''
''Mechanism: Any kind of large mechanical device, consisting of many moving parts such as cogs and wheels, used for the basic automation of one or more tasks. Specializations: Vis Extraction, Re.''
''Mirror: A grand and ornamental silvered mirror or other reflective surface. Specializations: In, Im, Me.''
''Monolith: A huge slab of primal rock, possibly carved with mystical symbols. Specializations: Te, Vi.''
''Orb: A smooth sphere of precious stone, possibly opaque or semi-opaque, used in conjunction with divinatory effects. Specializations: In, Im, Me, Vi.''
''Pallet: A bed upon which a patient may be treated or examined, perhaps equipped with some surgeon’s tools. Specializations: Longevity Rituals, Cr, Co.''
''Pit: A deep hole dug in the floor. Things placed inside it cannot easily get out. Specializations: Pe, Te.''
''Pool: A still body of water, or a well. It may be used when scrying. Specializations: In, Aq.''
''Portal: A gateway through which things may be summoned or sent away. Specializations: Cr, Re.''
''Rack: A large, rather unpleasant mechanical construct, used to torture per''
''sons placed inside it. Specializations: Pe, Co, Me.''
''Running Water: Any kind of water that runs through or around the lab, such as a stream or fountain. Specializations: Items, Aq.''
''Summoning Circle: An elaborate pentagram marked on the floor, into which things are summoned. Specializations: Experimentation, Spells, Cr, Re, An, Vi.''
''Statue: A carved semblance of some person, creature, or thing, usually made of stone, metal, or porcelain. Specializations: Re, An, Co, Te.''
''Still: A network of glass or metal tubing connecting delicate containers, such as retorts, designed for the distillation and refinement of compounds. Specializations: Vis Extraction, Mu, Re, Aq.''
''Tablet: A large framed slab of wax, for temporary scribing with a stylus. Specializations: Texts, In, Im.''
''Tank: A bulky container for storing fluids. Specializations: Vis Extraction, Re, Aq.''
''Throne: An opulent and raised seat for a ruler (or at least, the self-important) to sit in. Specializations: Teaching, Re, Me.''
''Tree: A live tree or a large plant, such as a vine. Specializations: Cr, He.''
''Void: A shaft, hole, or opening. Specializations: In, Pe, Au.''
''Wall: A large blank wall onto which images may be summoned. Specializations: In, Im.''
''Wheel: A wheel powered by water, wind, horse, slaves, or magic. Specializations: Items, Re.''
''Window: A portal to the outside world, which lets in the sun, moon, and stars. Specializations: In, Au, Im.''

==Magic Items for Laboratories==

''A magic item designed for lab use (or an enchantment on the whole lab itself) can grant one or more Virtues or Flaws, or add to the Characteristics or Specializations of the lab. A magic item may be made into a Feature, in which case that Virtue should be paid for as usual. Equally, an existing Feature may be enchanted as a magic item. In this case, if the Shape and Material bonuses of the Feature are not listed elsewhere (such as in ArM5, page 110), you may assume it to have Shape and Material Bonuses equal to the points of Arts Specializations it provides.''
''Specific effects for each item should be created normally according to the Laboratory chapter of ArM5. If an effect''
''cannot be conceived which yields the desired benefit, then it is probably not possible. To provide a benefit, an effect must also be new to the laboratory, and not duplicate any existing effects. For example, if the lab already has a set of enchanted lanterns that grant the Magical Lighting Virtue, then adding more lanterns is not really going to help. For each effect, there are two possible ways to determine the appropriate modifications to the lab’s statistics.''
''First, if the effect duplicates an existing Laboratory Virtue or Flaw, then the item simply grants that Virtue or Flaw to the lab. It is gained immediately and has no space cost; apply its stated modifications to Characteristics or Specializations, as usual.''
''Second, if the effect does not resemble a Laboratory Virtue or Flaw, then the final level of the effect determines how many points of Characteristics or Specializations may be gained. Every ten levels may grant one point in a Specialization, or every 20 levels may improve a Characteristic by one point. For example, an effect with a final level of 50 might improve one''
''Characteristic by one point (20 levels) and one Specialization by three points (30 levels). Also, items or enchantments with powerful effects, influencing the whole of the lab, may (unintentionally) increase the Warping Characteristic, at the discretion of the storyguide.''

===Common Laboratory Items===

''A number of common magic items for the lab take on the role of mundane equipment, and do a better job of it. Items that provide light may negate the need for candles and lanterns, and grant the Magical Lighting Virtue. Items that provide heat may negate the need for fireplaces and fuel, and grant the Magical Heating Virtue. A set of magically enchanted tools may grant the Superior Tools Virtue. Containers with magical effects to purify mixtures may add to the General Quality, or give a Specialization in Vis Extraction. Magical decorations, such as tapestries or paintings that show moving pictures, may add to Aesthetics, or give a Specialization in Imaginem. A levi''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

===The Bookstand of Hespera===

''This item is a wooden lectern with enough space on its top for a Lab Text, as well as an inkhorn, a small knife, and several quills. The stand moves around to follow the magus so that he is never far from his Lab Text. He only need turn to consult his text or make further notes. The Bookstand adds two points to a Specialization in Texts. ReHe 15 (Base 10, +1 Conc), item maintains concentration (final level 20)''

===The Crown of Hermes===

''The powerful creator of this artifact, an elaborate, jewel-encrusted golden crown, has been lost to living memory. Although invested with other effects, such as Aura of Rightful Authority, the crown’s most powerful property is that it enables its wearer to enter a kind of trance and thus create an imaginary laboratory in his mind. With seasons of meditation whilst wearing the crown, the wearer can undertake some kinds of lab work (or even lab improvement). When the crown is removed and later put back on, the wearer recalls his imaginary lab in the last state that he left it. Wearing the crown for the first time will inflict one Warping point, since it is a powerful mystical effect. Every year of''
''use will also inflict a Warping point, due to being continuously under the influence of the effect. The imaginary lab may be treated as a standard one, except that it has the Mental Construct Flaw (see above). Cr(In, Mu, Re)Me 50 (Base 35, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''

===The Prodigious Plant Pot===

''This object is a large and sturdy clay pot. If filled with loam, a seed or seedling placed in it grows rapidly into a mature plant over the course of a full day. The Plant Pot adds +1 to a lab’s Experimentation Specialization and +2 to its Herbam Specialization. CrHe 30 (Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''

===The Tireless Servant===

''This is an automaton of sorts, a skeleton which has been animated and may be controlled quite precisely with a limited set of verbal commands. It can be instructed to hold or fetch objects, and perform simple operations, such as lifting and stirring, independently. The Tireless Servant adds +1 to a lab’s General Quality, and +1 to its Safety. ReCo 25 (Base 10, +1 Conc, +2 complexity), item maintains concentration, unlimited uses per day (final level 40)''

==Example Laboratory Items==


|}
''tating chair might improve the Health or Aesthetics, or give a Rego Specialization. Items with protective effects, such as objects of unbreakable glassware, might improve the Safety. Rarely, an unhelpful or cursed item may be hidden in a lab and cause a malign effect.''

==Spells for Laboratories==

''Spells may be employed to assist in the lab. Ritual spells can be cast once for permanent effect,  or more minor spells used more often for maintenance and comfort. The appropriate modifications''
''to the lab’s statistics can be determined in the same way as for items, above.''
''However, there are disadvantages to the usage of non-Ritual spells. Casting such spells on a daily or monthly basis can become tiresome, and they may have unpredictable side effects. As a rule of thumb, for each such spell that is employed regularly, either add one to the lab’s Warping Characteristic or subtract one from its Safety.''
''For the sake of game balance, a further restriction also applies to the use of non-Ritual spells in the lab. A magus can never gain a bonus to Lab Totals (either from General Quality or a Specialization) by casting spells that use the same Arts as those in the Lab Total. For example, one''
''might attempt to cast (repeatedly, over the course of a season) a pair of Creo Imaginem spells to make the lab brightly lit (temporarily granting the Superior Lighting Virtue) and to create illusory paintings (temporarily granting the Superior Decoration Virtue). While this can be done (albeit with a penalty of two points on Warping or Safety), this does not add to the lab’s Imaginem Specialization. A magus undertaking a season of lab work involving Imaginem might already be presumed to be doing such things, and his proficiency with that Art is already figured into the Lab Total. However, the storyguide might allow the usage of a Creo Terram spell to create a large number of brightly colored crystals (temporar''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

===The Resolute Mind of the Tireless Researcher===

''Rego Mentam Level 20 R: Per, D:Sun, T: Ind This spell is designed for a magus to cast upon himself at the start of a day’s work in the laboratory. Andreas of House Bonisagus, frustrated at his constant lapses of concentration, and finding it difficult to maintain focus on his research, came up with this effect in an effort to make his work days more productive. The target of the spell finds his mind resolutely fixed on the task in hand, and does not waver from it. Opinion is sharply divided on the merits of this spell, with the majority of magi considering it little more than a dangerous self-delusion, which warps the mind of the magus, making him dependent and weak-willed. If this spell is used on a daily basis, a magus should select the Addled laboratory routine (see above).''
''(Base 10, +2 Sun)''

===The Laboratory of Bonisagus===

''Creo Terram 45 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual''
''Req: Vim This rather well-known spell furnishes an empty chamber of the appropriate dimensions with a fully-equipped, standard Hermetic laboratory. It is generally employed by magi who find themselves with plenty of vis, but who otherwise have difficulties in securing the necessary funds and sources to procure the materials by mundane means. This laboratory is actually rather better than the standard, since the magically created outfittings are perfect. Unless this lab is''
''rigorously maintained at the higher level of Upkeep, however, these Virtues will quickly be lost, and it will degrade to a more mundane standard laboratory. It starts with the following statistics:''
''Virtues and Flaws: Flawless Equipment, Flawless Tools, Spotless''
''Characteristics: Size 0, Refinement 0, General Quality +2, Upkeep +3, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health +1, Aesthetics +1''
''Specializations: Items 2, Vis Extraction 2, Creo 1''
''(Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +5 complexity)''

===Gleam of the Freshly-polished Glass===

''Perdo Terram 25 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Room This spell maintains the equipment and tools of a lab in a constant state of immaculate cleanliness. Dirt, dust, and grime are all removed, leaving the outfittings positively gleaming, as if they had been freshly dusted and polished. This grants the Spotless Virtue to the lab, provided that the spell is cast every lunar month. If the spell ceases, the magus must maintain this pristine condition through more mundane means, otherwise the Virtue is lost. There is just one small drawback to this spell — the lab’s Warping score increases by one point (giving a Personality Trait Spotless +1) due to the unnatural nature of this cleaning, for as long as it is active.''
''(Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +2 Room)''

===The Ambulatory Laboratory===

''Rego Terram 30 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Room''
''This spell precisely transports all the movable contents of a chamber into another room to which the caster has an Arcane Connection, leaving their configuration and relative positions intact. Some casting requisites are usually required, depending on the composition of the lab’s outfittings; a Herbam requisite is required to move wooden furniture, an Aquam requisite is required to move liquids, and so on. The destination room must be at least as large as the occupied part of the current room, although it can be a different shape. Magi quite often utilize this effect in order to avoid the tiresome (and expensive) practicalities of moving their sanctum by more mundane means. When this spell is cast on a lab, make a Perception + Finesse roll to determine the precision with which the contents are rearranged in the new chamber. The base Ease Factor is 9 + (3 x Refinement). Add three if the lab is Highly Organized; subtract three if it is Disorganized. Also add three if the shapes of the old and new chambers do not match, or six if they are radically different. If this roll fails, the Disorganized Flaw is gained, or the Highly Organized Virtue is lost. If the roll botches, the Hidden Defect Flaw is gained instead.''
''A version of this spell with Arcane Connection Range is also believed to exist; with this more powerful variant a magus may summon the contents of a remote lab into the chamber he occupies. It is not unheard of for a nefarious magus to steal an entire lab in this fashion!''
''(Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Room, +2 complexity)''

==Example Laboratory Spells==


|}
''ily granting the Specimens Virtue) to add one to the Imaginem Specialization, if the spell was good enough. A good guiding principle is that anything involving the use of vis (Ritual spells, magic items), or any inspiration or improvement from an external source or non-magical objects, can grant such Lab Total bonuses. Anything that comes directly from the magus’s own magics in the same season cannot.''

==Example Laboratories==

''A number of example Hermetic laboratories are listed below, illustrating how the rules in this chapter may be used to construct unique and widely varied labs. In the list of Virtues and Flaws for each lab, those with the same cost are separated by commas, whereas different cost categories are separated by semicolons, thusly: Major Virtues; Minor Virtues; Free Virtues; Free Flaws; Minor Flaws; Major Flaws. It should also be noted that for some labs with a large number of Virtues and Flaws, points are granted on more than the allowed number of Specializations, therefore some Specializations are dropped.''

===Carolus Furax===

''The sanctum of Carolus Furax of House Tytalus, one of the junior magi at the covenant of Semita Errabunda, is a rather rickety-looking wooden house. Carolus in fact prefers it to look rundown, to avoid unwanted attention to those stolen items he has carefully hidden away inside. Carolus has not invested any time into improving his lab, thus it differs only slightly from a standard laboratory.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Dedicated Building; Decaying''
''Characteristics: Size 0, Refinement 0, General Quality –1, Upkeep 0, Safety –1, Warping 0, Health 0, Aesthetics 0''
''Specializations: Perdo 2, Rego 1''

===Darius===

''Darius, follower of Flambeau, the senior magus of the covenant of Semita Errabunda, has erected his laboratory in the sizable basement underneath his unobtrusive house, which he has gradually expanded over the years. This oppressive room is totally lightless, still, and silent (although Darius can navigate it without difficulty). There is a stale smell in the air. This is a place of dread and rumor for the''
''other inhabitants of Semita Errabunda, for no one but Darius knows what it contains, although many have speculated.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Auspicious Shape, Extensive Stores, Lesser Expansion (+1 Pe), Lesser Feature (Pit; +1 Pe), Specimens (Bones; +1 Co); Dedicated Building, Highly Organized; Decaying, Subterranean; Lightless, Undecorated''
''Characteristics: Size +2, Refinement +1, General Quality +1, Upkeep +2, Safety 0, Warping +1, Health –1, Aesthetics –1''
''Specializations: Perdo 4, Corpus 1, Terram 1, Vim 1''
''Personality Traits: Dread +1''

===Ierimyra===

''The laboratory of Ierimyra at the former covenant of Calebais was ruined some time ago and has been abandoned for many years, although it is still haunted by her ghost. The square stone room is a little unstable, with cracks in the walls and floor, and it is strewn with the wreckage of lab equipment. The remains of a collection of animals rot in rusty iron cages along one wall. In warrens nearby live a number of hrools, intelligent ferret-like creatures, who still protect the lab. Needless to say, this lab would need some significant repairs before being safe to work in.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Specimens (Dead animals; +1 An); Damp, Decaying, Haunted, Infested (Moss; +1 He), Inhabitants (Hrools; +1 An), Predecessor, Subterranean, Uneven Floor, Unstable, Vulnerable, Wrecked''
''Characteristics: Size 0, Refinement +1, General Quality –6, Upkeep +3, Safety –7, Warping +2, Health –3, Aesthetics –9''
''Specializations: Experimentation 1, Perdo 2, Animal 2, Mentem 2, Terram 2''
''Personality Traits: Haunting Presence +2''

===The Tower of Bonisagus===

''These four labs, two each in the fourth and fifth floors of the Tower of Bonisagus (more commonly known as the Great Library) at the famed covenant of Durenmar, are designed for visitors to the library to invent spells with the aid of its Lab Texts. Each lab is rather small, being only 350 square feet, and a large magical vine winds inside the tower and smothers the interior walls. The tower is enchanted to prevent all forms of natural decay to the books inside.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Superior Lighting; Elevated, Enchantment, Site of Legend (+3 In), Superior Construction, Superior Equipment; Infested (Vine; +1 He); Cramped''
''Characteristics: Size –1, Refinement +1, General Quality 0, Upkeep +2, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health 0, Aesthetics +1''
''Specializations: Texts 2, Vis Extraction 1, Intellego 3, Auram 1, Herbam 1, Imaginem 1''

===Ricardus Caespuus===

''The laboratory of Ricardus Caespuus of House Bonisagus at the covenant of Durenmar is a large glass house located in a scenic and secluded spot. This elaborate building is crammed full of plants, which Ricardus cultivates as a unique method of vis extraction which he has developed. The lab is also home to the Prodigious Plant Pot (see above), which he made.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Lesser Feature (Tree; +1 He), Pot Plants; Dedicated Building, Idyllic Surroundings (+1 He), Magic Item (+1 Experimentation, +2 He), Superior Equipment; Disorganized, Infested (Plants; +1 He); Lesser Focus''
''Characteristics: Size 0, Refinement +1, General Quality 0, Upkeep +4, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health +2, Aesthetics +2''
''Specializations: Experimentation 2, Vis Extraction 1, Rego 1, Herbam 8''

===Igor Rastvan===

''Igor Rastvan, an archmagus of House Ex Miscellanea and ruler of the Rhine covenant of Roznov, is famed (amongst other things) for his magnificent laboratory, one of the best in the Order of Hermes. It is housed in a great hall occupying one entire end of Roznov Castle, up the side of Mount Radhost. Its high vaulted ceiling is hung with tapestries, and it is maintained with thousands of candles and multiple fireplaces. One end of the lab, its focus, consists of a great altar to the god Radegast. The building costs a small fortune to maintain.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Feature (Altar; +3 Pe), Palatial (+1 Im); Gallery, Lesser Expansion (+1 Longevity Rituals), Slaves, Spacious, Superior Decoration, Superior Heating, Superior Lighting; Dedicated Building, Grand Entrance, Guard x2, Precious Ingredients, Servant (Int +2), Superior Construction, Superior Equipment; Sacrifices; Greater Focus''
''Characteristics: Size +6, Refinement +3, General Quality +2, Upkeep +16,''
''Safety +1, Warping +1, Health +2, Aesthetics +15''
''Specializations: Longevity Rituals 2, Teaching 3, Perdo 7, Corpus 4, Imaginem 3, Mentem 1''
''Personality Traits: Domineering +1''

===The Sphinx===

''This laboratory has been erected by magi from a covenant near the Pyramids in Egypt, out in the open desert near the great Sphinx, in an effort to study that legendary monument. The lab has no building as such; the equipment is merely arranged on a number of tables in the open air, with a few tents and windbreaks to protect against the worst of the blowing sands. The quality and comfort of the lab both suffer due to this exposure, but it gains the benefit of a strong aura and a number of Specializations due to its mystical location.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Feature (Statue; +3 Re), Natural Environment (Desert; +3 Ig); Spacious; Site of Legend (+1 Warping, +2 Me); Haunted, Uneven Floor, Vulnerable; Undecorated; Greater Focus, Outdoors''
''Characteristics: Size 0, Refinement 0, General Quality –3, Upkeep +1, Safety 0, Warping +2, Health –3, Aesthetics –2''
''Specializations: Muto 1, Rego 6, Ignem 2, Mentem 3''
''Personality Traits: Enigmatic +2''

===Helvius Pertinax===

''Helvius Pertinax of House Tremere, a rather paranoid magus specializing in ice magics, resides in a spacious underground cavern by an underground lake. The lake water is prone to rising unpredictably, which is due (unbeknownst to Helvius) to the fact that a dragon makes its lair some distance underneath the cave. Helvius has yet to fill the cave out to its maximum extent; there is space for four more points of Virtues. He currently uses spells to provide light to the cave (this adds one to the lab’s Warping, but does not add to its Specializations). Unfortunately, the cave is not the healthiest (or safest) of environments, but that does not deter Helvius.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Natural Environment (Lake; +3 Aq); Extensive Stores, Lesser Feature (Monolith; +1 Te), Living Quarters, Spacious; Magical Lighting; Damp, Empty x2, Impregnable, Lair, Precarious, Subterranean, Uneven Floor; Defective Heating, Lesser Focus, Undecorated''
''Characteristics: Size +7 (+3), Refinement +1, General Quality –1, Upkeep 0, Safety –2, Warping +2, Health –8, Aesthetics –6''
''Specializations: Aquam 4, Terram 4, Vim 1''
''Personality Traits: Eerie Light +1, Uncomfortable Silence +1''

===Lutisse===

''Lutisse of House Ex Miscellanea resides in a crude treehouse at the edge of a faerie forest. The dwelling is shrouded by a faerie glamour and protected by a poisonous faerie spider that Lutisse has befriended, but is also infested by its cobwebs. Lutisse is very slight (Size –1) and the Characteristics are therefore listed without any penalty for the Diminutive Flaw.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Lesser Feature (Cauldron; +1 Mu), Lesser Feature (Tree; +1 He), Lesser Guardian; Dedicated Building, Elevated, Faerie Ingredients, Shrouded; Inferior Equipment, Inferior Tools, Infested (Cobwebs; +1 An), Low Ceiling, Missing Sanctum Marker, Uneven Floor; Defective Heating, Defective Lighting, Diminutive, Lesser Focus''
''Characteristics: Size –2, Refinement +1, General Quality –4, Upkeep –4, Safety –3, Warping +2, Health –2, Aesthetics –1''
''Specializations: Experimentation 1, Muto 3, Rego 1, Animal 2, Herbam 2''
''Personality Traits: Creepy +2''

==Appendix==


=Play Aids=

''The pages that follow contain a variety of materials useful in founding, defining, and administrating covenants of the Order of Hermes according to the new rules presented in this book.''
''The first four pages contain a sample covenant charter. It can be used for your own covenant, and blank spaces are provided for including your covenant’s name, its magi, the year, and so forth. The text of the oath and charter are the same as those of the covenant Arae Flaviae. Because it is such a commonly used and well-respected document in the Order, if adopted, it will be automatically ratified by the Quaesitors. For more information, see page 33.''
''Beginning on page 129 are ten pages of record sheets created specifically to accommodate the new rules presented throughout this book. You will find record sheets to track covenant statistics, membership, wealth, income, laboratories, libraries, books, vis, and to summarize a covenant’s annual activities.''
''The pages of this appendix may be photocopied for your personal use, but are copyright 2005 by Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games. They are also available for PDF download from the Ars Magica web site at www.atlas-games.com/ArM5.''

==Membership==

''The covenant allows for two types of membership of its council, and recognizes a third status, which it offers to visitors to the covenant.''
''The status of Protected Guest may be extended to any person by the formal invitation of a single full member of the covenant. Protected Guests are afforded the basic rights detailed by this charter, and are not obligated to the Council of Members, nor are they a member of this council. Protected Guests may partake in meetings of the Council of Members should they desire it, but are required to leave if asked to do so by a member of that council, and are afforded no voice nor vote unless granted such by the council’s chairman, the disceptator. The status of Protected Guest may be may be revoked by the member who granted it, or by a vote of the Council of Members.''
''The status of Probationary Member of the Council may be extended to any magus in good standing of the Order of Hermes, who owes no allegiance nor fealty to any other covenant, and is admitted upon the unani''
''mous approval of the current Council of Members. Provisional members assume the basic and provisional rights detailed by this charter and the duties therein attached. The status of provisional member shall last a period of seven seasons, unless abridged through censure or canceled through expulsion.''
''The status of Full Member of the Council is extended upon the completion of the duties and obligations of a probationary member, unless testimony is brought against him that proves him unfit to swear the Oath of Covenant in good conscience; in which case all rights of membership will be withdrawn. Should elevation to the role of full member take place, then all rights and duties of probationary membership are shed, to be replaced with the assumption of the basic and full rights detailed by this charter, and the duties therein attached. Full membership persists, unless abridged through censure or canceled through expulsion.''
''Should a magus ever come to desire release from this covenant, he must renounce his Oath of Covenant in the presence of at least two members of the council, and shall thereby be relieved of all duties and rights, and may not call upon such rights furthermore.''

=The Oath of Covenant of=


==________________________==


==Being the charter of the Covenant of                                   in the              Year of Our Lord, Jesus Christ.==


==I pledge my lifelong support and loyalty to the Covenant of                                   , and declare that the trials and==


==fortunes of this covenant are now my own. Just as I am pledged to the Oath of Hermes, so do I pledge the covenant to==


==the Order of Hermes and the authority of the Tribunal of                        . I swear to uphold and protect this covenant==


==regardless of the personal price. Over all the years of my life and throughout my studies and travels, I will neither betray the==


==covenant nor give aid to its enemies. In times of need, I will aid the covenant in whatever way I am able, and I will devote==


==myself to its service if the need is clear. I will abide by the decisions of the ruling council of this covenant, and I will treat these==


==decisions as if they were my own. I will treat my fellows with respect and fairness, and I will not attempt to harm them in any==


==way. Their blood is my blood. Where the covenant stands, there do I stand; how the covenant grows, so do I grow; should==


==the covenant fall, then do I fall. This I so swear, upon the honor of my house and its Founder.==


==Given under our hand,==

''Permission granted to photocopy for personal use. © 2005 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games. Also available as a PDF download from www.atlas-games.com/ArM5.''

==Governance of this Covenant==

''The members of this covenant are governed by the Council of Members, which shall consist of all probationary and full members of the covenant. This council shall not declare action except on behalf of the entire membership of the covenant; no action may be demanded of individuals by council agreement. Conversely, the rulings of the council cannot be overturned by an individual.''
''Any member of the covenant shall have the right and duty to convene the Council of Members for consideration of matters justly grave, and all members shall be charged with attendance and diligence in the proceedings. Should it not be possible to convene the full Council of Members, any quorum consisting of more than half of its current members is considered valid; else the discharge of the council’s duty must be delayed until such time as the full council may be convened. The Council of Members shall convene four times each year, one day prior to each equinox and solstice, regardless of call from any member, and all members of the covenant should endeavor to make themselves present.''
''Motions to be decided upon by the Council of Members must be introduced by a member; debated fully and justly, allowing those who wish to speak to do so; and then proposed for the vote. Proposals must be seconded by another member of the covenant, else no vote can take place. All issues shall be passed by a majority vote of the members there present; excepting that the unanimous opinion of the Council of Members is required for issues involving changes to the charter; expulsion of a member; and acceptance of a new probationary member.''
''The Council of Members shall confer the office of disceptator to the representative of the covenant in matters of governance and temporal concern. The title of disceptator is a duty of each and every full member of the covenant; this position is cyclical and mandatory, with the responsibility rotating in sequence of Hermetic seniority amongst the full members of the council. Each disceptator serves for a period of seven years, commencing one year following Tribunal. The duties of the disceptator are: to attend regular meetings of the council; to keep order at meetings; to break tied votes with a discretionary casting vote; to determine the yearly surplus of provision and store; and to act as a spokesman for the Council of Members. The disceptator shall not be empowered to rule on matters on the covenant’s behalf, but instead is charged with ensuring that the rulings of the Council of Members are enacted.''

==Resources Owned by this Covenant==

''Resources of this covenant are held in common by the Council of Members, and it is the responsibility of this council to maintain and defend them.''
''This covenant lays claim to all the vis originating from undisputed and unclaimed sources discovered by members of the council; save for the first harvest of a new vis source, which belongs to the finder or finders. This covenant also lays claim to any vis gifted to the Council of Members as a whole. In all other situations, undisputed and unclaimed vis belongs to the finder or finders.''
''This covenant lays claim to all books obtained by members of the council while acting at the behest of the council, and all books scribed by members of the council where payment was received for this scribing from the covenant’s resources. This covenant also lays claim to any texts gifted to the Council of Members as a whole.''
''This council lays claim to all magical items obtained by members of the council while acting at the behest of the council; and all magical items made by members of the council where payment was received for this manufacture from the covenant’s resources. This covenant also lays claim to any magical items gifted to the Council of Members as a whole.''
''This council lays claim to all monies generated using the resources of the covenant. This council also lays claim to all monies obtained by members of the council while acting at the behest of the council. This covenant also lays claim to any monies gifted to the Council of Members as a whole.''
''This council lays claim to the buildings, defenses, chattels, and inhabitants of the covenant. This council also lays claim to any such buildings, defenses, chattels, and inhabitants gifted to the Council of Members as a whole.''
''Surplus resources of the covenant will be determined at the Winter meeting of the Council of Members. Resources necessary for the continued existence of the covenant and the protection of its members’ rights are accounted for first; this includes payment for seasons of work performed on behalf of the covenant, and a stipend of vis for the casting of the Aegis of the Hearth. Contributions to all debts owed to the covenant are decided by the disceptator, and set aside. The remaining resources are deemed surplus, and shall be allocated to the settlement of requests from each member of the covenant.''

==Rights of the Members of this Covenant==

''Each and every member of this covenant and protected guests shall be entitled to the basic rights of the covenant; to whit, full and unrestricted access to the protection and support of the covenant within the boundaries of the covenant by all the rights and benefits accorded by the Code of Hermes, the benefit of a sanctum which shall remain inviolate and the supply of materials thereof, access to the library of the covenant, and victuals appropriate to the status of a magus. These basic rights shall not be abridged except by expulsion from the Council of Members.''
''In furtherance and additional to the basic rights, a full member of the covenant shall be entitled to the full rights of the covenant; to whit, the right to presence and a vote in the Council of Members, which he shall exercise dutifully with due prudence. Further, full and unrestricted access to the services and skills of the servants and covenfolk. Further, an equal right to all surplus provision and store necessary to conduct his studies, or the travel demanded by those studies; such rights to include (but be not limited to) vis, monies, and diverse magical and mundane resources claimed by the covenant. Where a conflict is evident between members of the council over the allotment of surplus resource, distribution is drawn by ballot; excepting that priority claims that have been advanced and agreed by the disceptator are taken into consideration prior to the ballot. These rights shall not be abridged except by decision of the council under conditions of grave concern.''
''In furtherance and additional to the basic rights of a member of this covenant, a probationary member of the covenant is entitled the probationary rights of the covenant; to whit, a fractional share of those rights and duties offered to a full member of the covenant, such share being equal to half that offered to full members. A probationary member’s vote counts only''
''Permission granted to photocopy for personal use. © 2005 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games. Also available as a PDF download from www.atlas-games.com/ArM5.''
''half of that of a full member, and they may only claim half the share of the surplus provision and store of the covenant’s resources afforded a full member. The services and skills of the servants and covenfolk may not be halved, but the needs of a full member of the covenant take precedence over the needs of a probationary member. Further, a probationary member of the covenant who remains true to his Oath of Covenant has the right to remain at the covenant for a total of seven seasons following the conferral of this status. Further, a probationary member of the covenant has the right to be considered for full membership of this covenant after serving a total of seven seasons as a probationary member. These rights shall not be abridged except by decision of the council under conditions of grave concern.''

==Responsibilities of the Members of this Covenant==

''Members of this covenant are obligated to obey the Oath of Hermes and the Peripheral Code, as demanded by the Oath of Covenant; failure on this account will not be tolerated by the Council of Members, and the covenant reserves the right to censure those members who are convicted in just Tribunal of an offense against the Order of Hermes.''
''The responsibility of the members of this covenant towards its lasting success is dependent on service to the covenant. The Council of Members will declare the duties that need to be performed at the regular meetings of the covenant. Such duties include (but are not limited to) the safeguarding and harvesting of the covenant’s claimed vis sources, the safeguarding and harvesting of the covenant’s income, the wellbeing and discipline of the covenant’s employees, the maintenance of the covenant’s resources, the increase of the covenant’s resources, and the maintenance of good relations with the covenant’s allies. Duties that will not entail more than a week of service at low personal risk will be assigned by the council to its members, with no more than one being assigned to each member in each season. Such assigned duties attract no recompense or advantage to the member who discharges them, but cannot be refused without reasonable extenuation.''
''Duties which will entail a higher investment of time or personal risk will be offered up for service by the covenant. These services will attract a remuneration which shall be commensurate with the time, risk, and potential benefit to the covenant. This remuneration is decided by the disceptator, but''
''maintains a minimum payment which shall be, for a single season of work at low risk with a low gain, two pawns of vis, of the flavor most prevalent in the stores at the time. The disceptator may increase the remuneration to increase the attractiveness of a particular urgent task, for the Council of Members is not empowered to force a member to accept one of these duties unless failure to perform it would be in breach of this covenant, in which case the threat of censure may be employed. All payments will be made in the Spring meeting of the Council. If there is more than one claimant for the service, and each claimant refuses to share the duty, then the disceptator will assign the duty by ballot. If there is insufficient vis to meet the demands of the council, the disceptator may withhold payment for one or more years. Covenant work may be declared such retroactively.''
''Each probationary member of the covenant is obligated to perform no fewer than one of the tasks under remuneration currently outlined by the Council of Members during his period of probation. For this mandatory service, no payment need be offered by the Council of Members.''

==Censure of the Members of this Covenant==

''If a member should contravene the decisions of the council, by vote or by charter, then the member may be censured or expelled by a vote of the Council of Members. Censure requires the passing of a motion at a meeting of the Council of Members. The censure of a full member revokes the rights of that status, returning him to probationary status; whereupon he assumes all the duties and rights of that status. Censure must not prejudice the application of a probationary member to the position of full member of the covenant. The censure of a probationary member shall abridge the rights of the member to remain a probationary member of the covenant, and shall confer upon him instead the status of Protected Guest. The status of a Protected Guest may be withdrawn at any time by a vote of the Council of Members without need for censure.''
''Expulsion is enacted by a unanimous vote of the remaining Council of Members. Expulsion is the only means through which a member of the covenant shall lose his basic rights; and requires that the former member ceases to draw upon those basic rights subsequent to the first full moon after expulsion was enacted. Should a magus be cast out from the Order, it is the duty and obligation of this covenant that he shall also and without delay be expelled from this covenant.''

==The Seal of Office==


==This charter was approved by                 , Quaesitor in good standing, in the            Year of Our Lord, Jesus Christ.==

''(This oath was first sworn by the magi of Arae Flaviae, in the Rhine Tribunal.)''
''Permission granted to photocopy for personal use. © 2005 Trident, Inc. d/b/a Atlas Games. Also available as a PDF download from www.atlas-games.com/ArM5.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
