''The religion of Zoroaster is a venerable one and his priests gave their names to the practitioners of magic itself. The followers of Zoroaster, also known as Mazdeans, worship the almighty God Ohrmazd. Mazdeans uphold the tenets of personal honesty and truthfulness. The Mazdean priesthood, called mobeds (in Greek, “magoi”), were once masters of the supernatural arts, commanding angels, spirits and elementals; predicting the future; transmuting the nature of matter; and performing great miracles. They are custodians of millennia of arcane lore and mystic knowledge. The mobeds were once a powerful tradition — their magic at its peak may even have come close to rivaling Hermetic Magic — but they are now greatly diminished. This chapter details Zoroastrianism in Mythic Europe, its faith, practices and current concerns. It also describes the mobeds and their powers.''

==A Mythic History==

''Mazdeanism starts with the birth of its founder, the prophet Zoroaster (also known as Zarathustra), over six hundred years before the birth of Christ. Zoroaster was born to the virgin Dughdov and when he was born he laughed rather than cried. He was raised as a priest on the very edge of the Persian Empire. After a period of meditating on the world in a sacred cave, Zoroaster was visited by God (called Ohrmazd), and from this came the Zoroastrian holy hymns, the Gathas. Zoroaster spent the next ten years preaching his new faith, traveling as far as the rising sun in the east, and throughout Persia. At age 42, Zoroaster converted the great Persian Emperor Vishtaspa after performing a great number of miracles. Zo''
''roaster was murdered in the city of Balkh by warriors of the Turanian Tribe while he prayed at a fire temple. With imperial patronage the Mazdean faith, under the guidance of Zoroaster’s discipline Osthanes, quickly grew to become the preeminent faith in Persia. The priests of Ohrmazd were known as mobeds, and they held the secrets of Zoroaster: how to understand the movements of the heavens, control spirits, and unlock the secrets of the natural world. Under the Achaemenians and Parthians, the mobeds expanded their religion and practices into the west, and many great philosophers from the Hellenic world traveled to learn the secrets of the Zoroastrians. A downturn for the faith came with the invasion of Persia by Alexander the Great. Temples, sanctuaries, and icons of the Mazdeans were plundered and destroyed. The priests who defended their holy places were slaughtered; their scriptures were burned. The Seleucid period''
''that followed this time was one of despair for the Mazdean faithful. Persecuted, they saw their temples turned over to false gods, devils, and magical spirits. Their holy teachings were dispersed throughout the world for the impious and unbelievers to read and use. The Zoroastrians regained their strength under the Sasanids, and came into conflict with the powerful Roman Empire and the Mercurian priests. During this period, the Mazdeans and their priesthood were in furious conflict in the western provinces with the Mercurians of the Roman Empire. Mobeds marched with Persian armies in Syria and Palestine, calling down angels and spirits, and giving their generals prophecies and visions of the future. These conflicts, however, were peripheral to the true struggle of the mobeds, which was principally a war against the followers of Ahriman, the Mazdean Devil.''
''Zoroastrians under Islam''
''The rise of Islam in early seventh century spelled the end of the Zoroastrian dominance of Persia. Large numbers of Mazdeans converted to Islam after the defeat of the Sasanid Empire by the Islamic armies. This conquest is known among Mazdeans as “the ruin and devastation that''
''came from the Arabs.” For the Muslim overlords of Persia, Ohrmazd is one and the same as the God of Abraham; the Zoroastrian scriptures are in the same category as the Torah and the Gospel, and Mazdeans are considered “people of the book” (dhimmis). Zoroaster himself is thought of as a prophet. Despite this, a large body of laws has been instituted to enforce the social and legal inferiority of the dhimmi in the community. Zoroastrians particularly are (unofficially) discriminated against, called gabars (“infidels”) and accused of fire and devil worship. Over the years many Zoroastrians have converted to Islam. Most Zoroastrians who have not converted have moved to remote and poor areas of south central Iran. Increasingly they are migrating further east to unknown lands. Despite this, Arabic has not displaced the local language, and the Iranians maintain distinctly Persian cultural practices. The ancient glories of the Achaemenian era, and the heroes who antedated the first Persian Empire, were preserved in countless tales, poems and stories. The Persian national epic Shahnameh, written by the poet Ferdowsi in the 10th century, is still widely read and recited in the 13th century, and details the mythological and historical past of pre-Islamic Persia, including a history of Zoroastrianism.''

==The Mazdean Church==

''For much of the history of Mazdeanism, there existed a religious institution, composed of hierarchies of priests supported by the emperor. It was not until the high priests Tanser and Kartir under the Sasanids that there existed a formal Mazdean Church with an explicit hierarchy under the direct theological and spiritual rule of the high priests. The mobeds that ran the Mazdean Church also engaged in the suppression of rival “false” faiths that were prevalent in the empire, including Christianity, Manichaeism, Judaism, and other exotic faiths from the lands to the east. This practice continued until the end of the Sasanid dynasty. The Mazdean Church was as thoroughly destroyed as the empire that supported it, although the institution of the priesthood survived. The priesthood is hereditary, rather than open to any who wish to become priests. The remaining institution is collegiate in nature, with no single prelate to firmly resolve doctrinal disputes. As the Mazdeans are so few, so dispersed, and mostly persecuted, there are few theological or doctrinal disputes of significance.''

==Mazdean Faith==

''Humata, hukhta, huvarshta (“Good thoughts, good words, good deeds”)   — Mazdean saying''
''Mazdeans worship a single, all-powerful creator called Ohrmazd (“Wise Lord,” Ahura Mazda), who is opposed by Ahriman (“Destructive Spirit,” Angra Mainyu). Ohrmazd is the source of all creation and all good things that exist, and is transcendent. Ahriman is the embodiment of every evil thing and concept. Zoroaster preached a very high standard of personal morality that binds the laity and priesthood alike; actions taken in this life form the basis for reward or punishment in the next. Collectively, the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Note on Historical Accuracy==

''Zoroastrianism is one of the least well-known world religions; translations of its ancient texts are contradictory and their interpretations open to debate. Textual and archaeological evidence is scant, and there is little consensus among historians and theologians on many elements of their history or beliefs. Zoroastrianism is also a living faith, undergoing internal debates about its own origins. The history of Zoroaster, the religion he founded and the nations that adopted that faith as their state religion is open to debate and interpretation. This chapter seeks to be respectful to this venerable living faith and its adherents. This is also a gaming resource, so the most “mythic” of''
''the various legends, histories and interpretations are more often than not used as authoritative.''
''A Note on Names''
''Zoroastrian names have at least four differing versions: the old Avestan, Middle Persian, Parsi (the Persian spoken in the 13th century), and Latinized names. This chapter uses the Avestan names more often than not, but the Parsi names are given in parentheses where appropriate. Some figures, such as Zoroaster, have their Latinized names only. “Zoroastrian” is used interchangeably with “Mazdean”.''

|}
''actions of the faithful can bring about cosmic changes: the triumph of good over evil. Zoroaster’s teachings stress personal honesty and harmony with society. The material universe is God’s good creation, and all unpleasant aspects of it, such as plagues, cold and drought, are products of Ahriman. Because there is a danger of physical corruption in the world, elaborate steps are taken with rituals and practices designed to maintain purity. These rites purify the body and the soul. It is in the material world that humanity makes its choices for right or for wrong. There is no rejection of the material world as being a source of sin or evil in itself. The world is to be enjoyed, although in moderation; asceticism has no place in the Zoroastrian faith.''

==Ohrmazd==

''My sixth name is Understanding; my seventh is Intelligent One; my eighth name is Knowledge; my ninth is Endowed With Knowledge; my twentieth is Mazda [Wisdom]. I am the Wise One; my name is the Wisest of the Wise.''
''— Yasht 1.7-1.15''
''Ohrmazd is the supreme creator of the world and all the good it contains. The Wise Lord is self-created, omniscient, omnipresent, holy, invisible, and beyond human comprehension. He is neither begotten nor is anyone his equal. As creator of the earthly and celestial realms, he is the dispenser of every material good and spiritual blessing. Ohrmazd revealed to Zoroaster personally the mysteries of creation, the reality of life and death, and the unseen spiritual powers that dwell invisibly throughout the world. To know Ohrmazd is to live in accordance with his divine will, to offer him praise and worship, to please him in purity of thought, word and deed, and to further his cause by joining his forces against evil. In Ars Magica, Ohrmazd is the God of the Divine Realm, the single all-powerful creator and sustainer. He resides beyond the Divine Realm, and is the same creator worshiped by all other monotheistic faiths,''
''such as Christianity, Islam, and Judaism. His worshipers benefit from the Dominion, and those with a personal relationship with him have True Faith.''

==Mazdean Divine Beings==

''There are a multitude of divine beings in the Mazdean celestial hierarchy. Most of the angels and even the Ameshaspand (Amesha Spentas) spend a great deal of time both in the celestial Divine Realm and the material world. Ameshaspand, yazdan and Mazdean angels possess the same traits as the angels described in Realms of Power: The Divine, Chapter Two.''
''Ameshaspand''
''These are seven personifications of aspects of Ohrmazd, called Ameshaspand''
''(“Holy Immortals”), who represent the highest principles of goodness. The Ameshaspand care for and protect creation. Each is a pathway to reaching Ohrmazd and personifies ideal Zoroastrian qualities. According to Mazdean teachings, the Ameshaspand are part of Ohrmazd’s nature. In Ars Magica, however, they are extremely powerful angels representing seven aspects of God; they only act according to the direct will of the Wise Lord and accordingly their every act is miraculous. They are not, however, of the same nature as God. All Ameshaspand, in addition to their other Choirs, are also Archangels.''
''Vohu Manah (Bahman): The preeminent celestial being next to Ohrmazd, Vohu Manah (“Good Mind”) embodies wisdom. He was the Wise Lord’s first creation and he guards the animal kingdom in the material world. He presides over good thoughts and wisdom, and commands divine spirits''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Accursed Turanians==

''The Turanians were a tribe originating from around the Ural Mountains north of the Oxus River. Once considered a holy tribe, the Turanians were led astray by powerful diabolical forces and waged war against the pious Iranians. Zoroaster’s murderer, a Turanian soldier called Bratarvakhsh, was granted untold infernal powers and, using sorcery,''
''raised a massive fortress called the Fortress Arvandasp. The Turanians were assimilated by the Turks during the seventh century; their diabolical elements were utterly destroyed. Infernal artifacts belonging to the Turanians, including the sword that killed Zoroaster, may still lie hidden in the lands north of the Oxus River.''

==Story Seed: The Demon-Blooded Paladins of Manochir==

''The paladins of Manochir roamed Persia before its conquest by Alexander the Great. Legends say that the greatest paladin of the age fathered a white-haired child, a sign of demon blood. The descendents of the demonblooded son were mighty warriors, nearly unstoppable. When the Persian Empire was conquered, the Order of Manochir was disbanded by Alexander. He ordered that their great arms and armor,''
''including a mace and a belt, be buried in secret in the desert. Alexander also tried to exterminate the demonblooded lineage. Rumors from those of Alexander’s troops who carried out his commands say that the mace could kill an elephant with a single blow, while whoever wore the belt was impervious to harm. A cache of these paladins’ awesome weapons would be a valuable discovery, as long as they are not infernally tainted.''

|}
''that encourage such things. Those who marry and raise a family are more blessed by Vohu Manah than those who choose an ascetic life. Vohu Manah also appeared to Zoroaster and led him to Ohrmazd. Asha (Asavahisht): As embodiment of divine and moral law, Asha (“Best Righteousness”) leads the path of the pure to Ohrmazd. The entire celestial realm lives according to the principles that Asha embodies, while the material world gravitates towards him. Asha encourages saintly behavior, nobility of character, and truth. Asha guards the material fire, and thus embodies the highest value of the Mazdean faith. Khshathra Vairya (Shahrevar): This Ameshaspand embodies the realization of heaven on earth, the “Desirable Kingdom”. Khshathra guards the sky, protects warriors, and presides over metal, which is his symbol. The riches of the world — gems, gold, and silver — belong to Khshathra.''
''Spenta Armaiti (Spendarmad): A feminine Ameshaspand, Spenta Armaiti (“Holy Devotion”) is believed to be the daughter of Ohrmazd. She personifies devotion, piety, religious harmony, and faith. Particularly pious Mazdeans venerate Spenta Armaiti very highly (in this way, she is held in similar regard to the Blessed Virgin Mary), as she enlightens the mind and purifies the heart. Zoroaster in particularly loved Spenta Armaiti above all other Ameshaspand. She governs the earth, granting bountifulness to the Wise Lord’s creations. Haurvatat (Hordad): The personification of health, Haurvatat (“Wholeness”) is another female Ameshaspand. She governs water, and assists personal salvation and communication with Ohrmazd. Ameratat (Amurdad): The personification of immortality and master of vegetation, Ameratat (“Life”) is inextricably linked with Haurvatat. The two form a spiritual bond, promoting health, joy, comfort, and pleasure among the faithful.''
''Spenta Mainyu (Spenamino): Spenta Mainyu (“Good Spirit”) is the Ameshaspand of God Himself, the active Holy Spirit. From Spenta Mainyu issues life, light, and beauty. It is through Spenta Mainyu that God actively wages war upon Ahriman. He does so by creating good works and beautiful things, in opposition to the despair and evil created by Ahriman. Some Mazdeans believe Spenta Mainyu to be a part of the Godhead itself, a divine attribute. Like the other Ameshaspand however, Spenta Mainyu is actually a very holy and powerful angel (possibly the same being as Metatron).''

==The Yazdan==

''The yazdan (sing., yazad, “Adorable Ones”) are Zoroastrian angels and benevolent spirits. Figures such as Marduk and Mithras are yazdan (also called yazatas) of greater or lesser significance. They occupy''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Mazdean “World Year”==

''According to Mazdean astrologers, there exists a “world year,” during which all heavenly bodies complete a full cycle of movement. The “world year” is a cycle of 12,000 years, divided into spans of three millennia. Each span saw the birth of either Zoroaster or one of the three Saviors of the World, and the broad pattern of events was repeated. The year 12,000 is believed to herald the victory of the Third Savior, the Saoshyant, who will complete the final defeat of evil. Approximate dates are given in AD and BC. The table assumes a birth date for Zoroaster of 650 BC. There is no agreement, even in the Zoroastrian texts, of when precisely he was born.''
''0–3,000 Ohrmazd, with foreknowledge of need and means to destroy evil, brought his creation into being in a spiritual (menog) state. Ahriman, rising from the deep, perceived the creation, fashioned the evil spirits and attacked creation. Ohrmazd cast him''
''down into hell by reciting the Ahunvar prayer. (9619 BC–6619 BC) 3,000–6,000 Ahriman lay prostrate. Ohrmazd gave material form (getig) to creation, shaping the world in seven stages, with one primeval man, animal and plant. (6619 BC– 3619 BC) 6,000–8,969 Ahriman breaks into the material world, polluting it, and destroying the primeval creations. From their seed grew all existing plants, animals and men. The great king Yima reigned over mankind. Many events of Persian myth, legend and epic took place. (3619 BC–651 BC) 8,970 Birth of Zoroaster. (650 BC) 9,000 Beginning of Zoroaster’s Millennium. Zoroaster receives his revelation and begins his proselytizing. (620 BC) 9,001–9,969 Time of goodness, followed by slow decline. (607 BC–349 AD) 9,970 Birth of first World Saviour, Ukh''
''shyat-ereta. (350 AD) 10,000 Beginning of Ukhshyat-ereta’s millennium. He led the forces of good and overcame evil. A new time of goodness was again followed by slow decline. (380 AD) 10,970 Birth of second World Saviour, Ukhshyat-nemah. (1350 AD) 11,000 Beginning of Ukhshyat-nemah’s millennium, where he will lead the forces of good to victory over evil, followed by period of slow decline. (1380 AD) 11,943 Birth of third World Saviour, Astvat-ereta, the True Saoshyant. (2323 AD) 11,973 He will bring the work of Frashokereti to a conclusion with the resurrection of the dead, the Last Judgment and the final conquest of evil. (2353 AD) 12,000 History will end. The Kingdom (Khshathra) of Ohrmazd will come on Earth and he will reign forever. (2380 AD)''

|}
''the third celestial rank, after God and the Ameshaspand. There are 40 named yazdan, with the most important of the yazdan, such as Mithras, Haoma, Atar, or Vayu, receiving a hymn or Yasht of their own. Many yazdan personify natural phenomena or abstract ideas, such as the moon, stars, and winds, or blessings, obedience, and peace. There are two distinct orders of yazdan, terrestrial (gaethya) and celestial (mainyava), although both have the same function: to grant various blessings to those who invoke them with offerings and sacrifices. Many yazdan are angels, but not all of them; rather, some are Divinely-aligned spirits. Many of the faithful and their communities have their own yazdan, who are venerated in the same way that Christians venerate saints. Yazdan can be invoked like a saint (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 87), although they cannot be threatened. To invoke a yazata, the invoker must be ritually pure (having undergone the Nahn purification rite, see Rites and Practices, later).''
''Frohar''
''The frohar (both singular and plural; fravashi) are the perfect divine spirits of every created thing. For humans, they are guardian angels, although everything, plant, animal, element, even other divine spirits, have a frohar — only demons and beings from other Realms do not have one. The title of frohar is granted by Mazdeans to angelic beings of several different types — the Choirs of the Potentates, Authorities, and Angels. Frohar guide the souls of the dead to the afterlife. They help the sun, moon, stars, and sky move, assist women to give birth, and bestow health upon the faithful. The longest Yasht of the Avesta (the Mazdean Bible) is devoted to the frohar.''

==Heaven==

''I came to a place and saw the souls of generous people, who walked adorned and were above all other souls in brightness. And Ohrmazd ever honored the souls of''
''the generous, which were bright and tall and strong. And I said: ‘Happy are you, who are the soul of a generous person, exalted thus above all other souls.’ And it seemed to me praiseworthy.''
''— Arda Viraz Namag, Chapter 12''
''Reaching Heaven''
''Upon death, the human soul (urvan) remains with the body for three days. On the fourth, the soul is led by its frohar to the Chinvat Bridge (“the Bridge of the Separator”), which spans a great abyss. Heaven waits on the other side. At the bridge, each person’s soul is judged by Rashnu; also guarding the bridge are the yazdan Mithra and Sraosha. If the record of the person’s soul balances in favor of good thoughts, words and deeds, then the soul crosses without difficulty to heaven. If the reverse is true, the bridge narrows to a knife’s edge, and the soul is sliced into ribbons as it falls into the abyss of hell.''
''Limbo''
''Mazdeans whose life’s words, thoughts, and deeds are equal parts good and bad''
''are sent to hamestagna (hamestakan, “limbo”). Here the soul experiences no torment or torture, only discomfort.''
''Resurrection and Judgement''
''The blessed souls in heaven wait for the birth and triumph of the final and true Saoshyant (“World Savior”). At his appearance, all the dead, righteous and damned, will rise from on the spot where they died; their bodies will be surrendered from the seas and ground, their bones reformed from the earth, hair from plants, blood from water, and life from fire. They will gather for the final judgment. The wicked will be condemned to three days in hell; the pure will receive three days in heaven. After three days, all shall be purified, good and evil alike, by walking through molten metal. Every soul will speak the ancient tongue of Avestan and worship Ohrmazd, and life will be restored to its perfect, primal state. This great army will then fight all of Ahriman’s demons in the final Armageddon, leading to the triumph of Ohrmazd. His victory will herald an eternity of bliss.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Saints and Relics==

''The Zoroastrian faith does not have a special category of people considered “saints.” They do, however, have a preponderance of holy men and women — great kings, priests, warriors, and so on — who are venerated and invoked in prayers. The faithful prefer to call upon''
''the aid of the yazdan, Ameshaspand, and angels. Similarly, the Mazdeans do not venerate relics, although there are a great many sacred and holy objects. These objects — including statues and inscriptions on walls — are imbued with Faith scores, and some may have other divine powers.''

==The Staff of Yoisht Frayana==

''Yoisht Frayana was a descendent of the Turanian apostle of Zoroaster, and defeated the sorcerer Akhtya in a battle of wits. Akhtya had terrorized the Mazdean priests for years, killing them after they failed to answer his riddles. Frayana successfully answered each of Akhtya’s 99 questions with the''
''help of the Yazdan, and cast the sorcerer into hell. The Staff of Yoisht Frayana is a powerful Mazdean relic, with a Faith score of 5. It has the Acknowledgement of Evil, Celestial Immunity, Expel Demons and Grant Serenity powers (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 88).''

|}

==The Cradle & The Crescent Fire==

''Fire is the central symbol of the Mazdean faith and is the visible sign of Ohrmazd’s divine presence. As the symbol of truth (asha), fire is highly venerated by Mazdeans. All sacred fires, whether for temple or personal use, must be kept constantly burning. Extinguishing a sacred fire is a grave sin, as is polluting it by dropping unclean objects into it. Only clean, dry wood can be used for a sacred fire, preferably sandalwood, aloe, or benzoin. The typical Zoroastrian sanctuary is a fire temple, an agiari (literally, a “fire place”). It is a square enclosed chapel with grillwork and vents to let the fire’s smoke out. The fire rests in an iron urn on a stone dais; the urn is typically filled with sand or ash on which the fire burns continuously. It is maintained by the priests of the temple, who must add wood and say the appropriate prayers five times daily.''
''Devout Mazdeans visit fire temples on a daily basis, while the less observant only attend on sacred days of the month. In 13th century Mythic Europe, with the Zoroastrian faithful pushed to the edge of the Muslim world, there are only a few temples with fires burning full-time. In their place, many Zoroastrians keep small oil lamps or wood fires burning in the home. This type of fire is the simplest and is called atesh dadgah (“fire of the appointed place”). If this fire is used for cooking, then cooking pots must not be more than two-thirds full, to avoid the contents boiling over and polluting the fire. There are two grades of sanctified or “royal” fire above the atesh dadgah: the atesh adaran (“fire of fires”) and the atesh Behram (or atesh Varahran, “fire of the guardian Varahran”). The atesh adaran is the union of four ceremonially ignited fires. The highest grade of fire, atesh Behram, requires combining fires from 16 different sources and takes considerable time to perform the ceremonial lighting.''
''Mazdean Dominions''
''Mazdeans enjoy the same Dominion as Christianity, Islam, and Judaism, with the Dominion aura extending from the sacred flame at the fire temple or from a sacred fire in the home. The size and sacredness of the fire increases the Dominion. The Dominion aura’s rating decreases as the distance from the sacred fire increases, so that the aura ratings are the same in the community as laid out in Chapter One, Realms of Power: The Divine. Thus, the highest Dominion Aura is near the sacred fire, decreasing to the borders of the fire temple (or building), with the lower rating throughout the faithful community (the village or town and their fields). In areas where Mazdeans live side by side with other Divine faiths (Islam for example), their Dominion aura is likely to be in Schism.''
''Atesh Dadgah: Increase Dominion Aura by +1 (max rating 3) Atesh Adaran: Increase Dominion Aura by +3 (max rating 5) Atesh Behram: Increase Dominion Aura by +6 (max rating 10)''

==Ahriman==

''Thus spoke the Evil One: ‘Neither our thoughts nor teachings nor wills, neither our choices nor words nor acts, not our inner selves nor our souls agree.’''
''— Yasna, Verse 45''
''Ahriman is the Zoroastrian Devil. He personifies the Lie (Druj), and is leader of the demonic hordes; he embodies every negative and evil thing and concept in the universe. Ahriman pollutes and corrupts the bodies and minds of humans, inflicting upon them disease, deformities and decay, as well as moral turpitude, lies, malicious thoughts, and false teachings. For every good creation of Ohrmazd, Ahriman made an evil one. Ahriman is the same being as the Christian, Muslim and Jewish Devil. Like the Devil in Christian tradition, Ahriman was not of evil substance, but made a''
''conscious decision to deny God and be evil. Because he is not omniscient or omnipotent, Ahriman cannot foresee his own final defeat, and because he has no forethought, he cannot know of things to come.''

==Mazdean Devils==

''The daevas and all Mazdean demons have the same traits as those in Chapter Four of Realms of Power: The Infernal. The daevas are exceptionally powerful demons, with high Infernal Might scores and ranks.''
''The Daevas''
''Created by Ahriman in mockery of the Ameshaspand, the daevas are the unholy arch-demons of evil who oppose and contrast with the Holy Immortals. Together, they are known as the Druj, “the Lie”. All that is foul and corrupt, vile and harmful is personified by a daeva. Not merely to do with nature or physical corruption, the daevas are also responsible for the darker emotions such as hate and envy. Aka Manah is Ahriman’s chief lieutenant and opposes Vohu Manah. He perverts the minds of humans with evil thoughts, and blunts their intelligence and reason. His chief role is to create discord and spiritual disruption. Mazdeans believe that the reason children cry when they are born is because Aka Manah frightens them with ghastly visions of suffering. Indra drives humans away from virtuous deeds and thoughts, opposing Asha. Saura also delights when the faithful discard the symbols of purity and goodness, although his main activity is to encourage tyranny and anarchy; Saura opposes Khshathra. Naonghaithya opposes Spenta Armaiti, and attacks the faith and devotion inside people’s souls, encourages disobedience, and opposes faithfulness. Taurvi and Zairich oppose Haurvatat and Amerertat respectively, causing imperfections and mortality in plants and animals, spreading diseases and deformity, creating poisonous plants and animals, and spoiling food with decay.''
''Demons''
''There are 45 named demons in the Mazdean scriptures, all of whom oppose the yazdan and Ohrmazd. The demons assault the faithful, plot, seduce and destroy, kill and torment, and seek at every moment to cause evil. Zoroastrian demons share the characteristics of demons as described in Chapter 4 of Realms of Power: The Infernal.''
''Hell''
''And I saw the blackest hell, dangerous, fearful, terrible, holding much pain, full of evil, foul-smelling. Then I thought that it seemed like a pit, to whose bottom a thousand spears would not reach; and if all the firewood which is in the world were placed on the fire in the most evilsmelling, darkest hell, it would never give out fragrance. Again, as close as eye to ear, and as many as the hairs on a horse’s mane, so close and many in number are the souls of the wicked therein. Yet they see not, and hear no sound from one another. Each one thinks: ‘I am alone.’ And they suffer gloom and darkness and stench and fearfulness and torment and punishment of diverse kinds …''
''— Arda Viraz Namag, Chapter 55''
''The Mazdean Hell is the abode of all evil rulers, evil-doers, evil-speakers, evilthinkers, and those of evil conscience. Those damned souls condemned to go to Hell are surrounded by demons and evil''
''spirits, doomed to suffer torments and deception for all eternity. Each type of sin attracts its own torments and punishments. Those who commit mortal sins of the flesh, extinguish holy fires, destroy bridges, speak falsely, or give false witness are punished with bitter cold, blazing fire, and foul stenches. Those who deny the good religion are bitten and devoured by serpents. Women who are vain and falsely mourn have their heads cut off and their tongues torn out. People who do not keep themselves purified and clean, or who pollute lakes and rivers, are beaten by demons. Each individual thus holds the key to his or her own destiny. By choosing to perform evil acts or think evil thoughts, an individual condemns himself to Hell.''

==Mazdean Heresies==

''Mazdeanism has had its share of heretical movements. In their time, the heresies were all severely persecuted and repressed by the Mazdean Church and imperial authorities. None survive into the 13th century. Nevertheless, the impact of these heresies, and their relics and monuments, may still remain, lost and waiting to be found. Mazdean heresies including the Zurvanites, who believed that Ohrmazd had a father called Zurvan (Time), and that free will was an illusion, and the Mazdakites, who were ascetics, and practiced poverty.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: A Heretical Revival==

''The Cult of Mithras was a Mazdean heresy that was popular in the western provinces of the Persian Empire, especially following the arrival of Hellenism after Alexander the Great. Although it was persecuted by the imperial Mazdean priesthood, it had a profound effect on Western mystic practices and beliefs. In a Mithraeum in Mythic Europe, a Hermetic magus of the Cult of Mithras,''
''perhaps a player’s character, discovers a cache of scrolls explaining the historical link between Mazdeanism and Mithraism, as well as suggesting the secret location of the birthplace of Mithras, in deepest Persia. What would happen if a Hermetic Mithraist discovers the still-living religion of Ohrmazd, and how will they react upon learning the Mazdeans believe Mithras to be a divine spirit?''

|}

==The Cradle & The Crescent Rites and Practices==

''Man’s first duty on earth is to profess the religion and to practice and worship according to it; not to turn from it, but to have belief in the Good Religion of the Mazda-worshipers ever in mind; to distinguish profit from loss, sin from virtue, goodness from badness, light from darkness, Mazda-worship from daeva-worship.''
''— The Teachings of the Magi''
''A great number of ritual practices are performed as part of the Mazdean faith. For pious Mazdeans, their faith is not a set of doctrines or a system of belief, but rather a faith that is lived through its prescribed rites and sets of behavior that shape their lives and endow them with meaning and purpose. Like all faiths, the level of observance of the rites varies from person to person. Most Mazdeans observe the major rituals and ceremonies of their faith, recite the main prayers and genuinely believe in the tenets of Mazdeanism. Like the sacraments and other religious rites of other Divine religions, properly performed prayers, ceremonies and rituals have a real spiritual and mystical effect. In Ars Magica, purification rituals really do spiritually cleanse the person who performs them, burial rites allow a person’s soul to reach the afterlife, and prayers really do result in miracles.''

==Prayers==

''The recitation of prayers is a major element of all Mazdean rites. There are hundreds of prayers recorded, although three have special prominence and are used most frequently. Their potency and sacredness is so great that they are recorded in every Zoroastrian library and form a part of almost every ritual and religious ceremony. Their recitation is considered one of the most effective prayers to Ohrmazd.''
''Ahuna Vairya: “Just as God is powerful, so is Zoroaster, because of His power of Asha. The gift of Vohuman is for the person who serves Ohrmazd. Any person who helps the needy shall receive help from Ohrmazd.” Ashem Vohu: “Righteousness is good, it is best. According to our wish it is, according to our wish it shall be. Righteousness belongs to Asha Vahista.” Yenhe Hatam: “We worship those male and female beings whom Ohrmazd knows are best for worship according to righteousness.”''
''Videvdat''
''A major liturgical service of the mobeds, the Videvdat is performed in the fire temple by qualified priests. It takes place between midnight and dawn, with recitations from the Yasna, the Visparad, and the Videvdat (see Mazdean Scriptures, later) to invoke divine spirits and ward off demons. Offerings are made to Ohrmazd and the Ameshaspand to coincide with sunrise.''
''Purity Rites''
''The ritual link between purity and impurity symbolizes each Mazdean’s personal participation in the cosmic war against evil. The purification ritual practices and symbolic gestures of Mazdeanism symbolize this struggle on a daily basis. There are three categories of purification rituals. The most important is the Bareshnum, which is undertaken by each Mazdean at least once in their life. The second comprises three rituals observed''
''on specific occasions: Padyab, Nahn and Riman. The final type of ritual includes various ritual actions to ensure continuous purification, both personal and communal. All of the purification rituals (excluding padyab and the daily rituals) drive away any possessing spirit, infernal or otherwise and cancel any non-permanent, non-Divine supernatural effects.''
''Bareshnum This rite is required for all candidates for the priesthood, but its function is to regain and maintain ritual purity. It also aids the soul’s journey to heaven, and is often performed when someone is about to die. The ritual itself consists of three ceremonial baths performed with the aid of two priests at a fire temple over a ten-day period; a total of 18 applications of consecrated bull urine (nirangdin), sand, and water; the presence of a dog 13 times; and the recitation of various prayers. The candidate similarly meditates, prays, and observes ritual acts during the ten days. The ritual does not work if any of the ingredients used are contaminated during the ritual’s performance, if any impurity enters the fire temple, it rains during the ceremony, or if the candidate dies before the end of the ceremony. In addition to the purifying effect described earlier, the subject of this ritual also gains a Faith Point, although he only gains it once (the first time), even if the rite is performed again on subsequent occasions.''
''Padyab A simple ablution ritual performed several times a day: in the morning after rising, after answering calls of nature, before taking meals, and before saying prayers. The rite consists of a short prayer formula, the washing of the face and exposed parts of the body (generally hands and feet), and the untying and re-tying of the sacred cord.''
''Nahn A sacred bath purification requiring the services of a mobed, it can be conducted either at home or in a fire temple. It is only performed during the day, and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Sacred Cord==

''The sacred cord of the Mazdeans (called a kusti) is a long woven cord, tied three times around the waist. The cord is central to many of the rituals and symbols of the faith, representing the connection between heaven and earth. All practicing Mazdeans have a kusti.''

|}
''is observed during the Navjote ceremony, marriage, forty days after childbirth, and on any one day during the Farvardegan holiday marking the end of the Mazdean year. The ceremony involves chewing a sacred pomegranate leaf, drinking a few drops of consecrated bull urine, reciting of the Repentance Prayer, applying unconsecrated bull urine (gomes) over the body from the head down, performing the sacred bath, and dressing in a new set of clothes. A longer, more complex purification ritual similar to this is administered to those who are particularly impure — this is called the Si-Shuy Nahn.''
''Riman This purification ritual requires two attendants (one of whom must be a priest), and is only performed on those who have come into contact with corpses in the course of ministering to the dead. It involves chewing pomegranate leaves, drinking consecrated bull urine, and ritually washing. The two attendants must also purify themselves. If the subject is a woman, she performs the ritual behind a partition.''
''Daily Rites When a Mazdean comes into contact with substances considered impure, he or she is rendered ritually impure. Impure substances include hair, skin, nails, blood, saliva, urine, feces, semen, and menstrual blood when they leave or are separated from the body. Carrion, rotting flesh, or plant matter, and foul-smelling air are also considered impure. There are thus specific rituals to be performed when cutting hair and nails, sneezing and yawning, urinating and excreting, as well as after sex (the act of which is not impure or sinful in itself, although the resulting excretions are). There are purification acts for purifying utensils, tools, furniture, and rooms.''
''The Yasna''
''The Yasna (“sacrifice”) is the most important ritual for Mazdeans, and is performed daily each morning by priests in the fire temple. Performing the Yasna is consid''
''ered a key weapon in the struggle against evil. This ritual is a priestly function and requires no witnesses or lay participants. It takes about two and a half hours, and is performed by two priests in a special area in the fire temple called the pawi. The Yasna establishes a connection between the spiritual (menog) and material (getig) worlds, inviting the tangible presence of Ohrmazd and the Ameshaspand to the fire temple. During the ceremony, Ohrmazd and his angels are reverently invoked, and the 72 chapters of the Yasna are recited as the priests walk symbolically around the pawi. At the end of the ceremony, consecrated haoma is poured onto the floor as an offering to the Wise Lord. The remaining libation and bread is consumed by the priests and other attending worshipers. This consumption mystically links the attendants of the ceremony with the divine forces present. Once the ritual is complete, the Dominion Aura around the holy fire increases by three points (but not beyond eight), decreasing by one point every five paces from the fire until returning to normal; this effect lasts for only an hour. The priests who perform the ritual and attendant worshipers gain a Faith Point. Worshipers in a state of sin do not get this benefit, and if any of the priests are impure during the ritual, there is no benefit.''
''Birth, Initiation, Marriage, and Burial''
''There are four ceremonies that coincide with significant times in a Mazdean’s life. There are prayers, purification rituals and devotions coinciding with birth, initiation of a child into the community, marriage, and, finally, burial.''
''Birth Before birth, at the fifth and seventh months, a sacred lamp is lit to ward off demons that may seek to harm unborn babies. Forty days after the birth of the child, the mother is given a purifying bath (the Nahn). A child is taken to the fire temple on his or her first birthday and has ashes from the sacred fire applied to his or her forehead.''
''The lamps lit in this ceremony increase the Dominion aura in the room the lamp is in, by one point (up to a maximum rating of 3; there is no effect if there is no base Dominion aura, or if the Dominion is already at level 3 or higher).''
''Initiation This ritual, called the Navjote, makes a child, aged 12 to 15, responsible for honoring Mazdean religious observances. The child receives his or her sacred cord (kusti) and sacred white shirt (sedra), takes purifying baths, and makes the declaration of the articles of faith (fravarane): “I profess myself a Mazdean, a follower of Zoroaster, opposing the demons, accepting the doctrine of Ahura, one who praises the beneficent immortals, who worships the beneficent immortals. I accredit all good things, those that are indeed the best, to Ohrmazd the good.” A character who undergoes the Navjote receives a Faith Point, which can be used as normal. It is lost if the character performs a significant sin. Additionally, the rites performed in this ceremony have the effect of rendering the child’s name unusable as a True Name for supernatural activities, in the same way that baptism does.''
''Marriage The ceremony of marriage is an important religious occasion, involving the bride and groom taking purifying baths, with the ceremony itself happening just after sunset. A procession of priests, officials, the bridegroom, and his family (and sometimes musicians) enters the bride’s home; the bridegroom stays outside, where his head is marked in red. After this, he enters and sits before the priest. The bride enters some time later and sits next to the bridegroom, with a cloth hanging between them. Prayers are said, vows are exchanged, and benedictions are made. A sacred fire and candle are present throughout. At the end of the ceremony, there is typically a feast. The marriage ceremony grants both bride and groom a Faith Point that may be used to strengthen their resolve in the face of adversity or temptation.''

==The Mazdean Calendar in Detail==

''The Thirty Days''
''Day Divine being Area of responsibility 1 Dadvah Ohrmazd Creator, God 2 Vohu Mana Good Purpose 3 Asha Vahishta Best Truth 4 Khshathra Vairya Desirable Dominion 5 Spenta Armaiti Holy Devotion 6 Haurvatat Wholeness 7 Ameretat Immortality 8 Dadvah Ahura Mazda Creator-by-Adar 9 Atar Fire 10 Apo Waters 11 Hvar khshaeta Shining Sun 12 Mah Moon 13 Tishtrya Dog star (Mercury) 14 Geush Urvan Ox-soul 15 Dadvah Ohrmazd Creator-by-Mihr 16 Mithra Loyalty 17 Sraosha Hearkening 18 Rashnu The Judge 19 Fravashayo All Souls 20 Verethraghna Victory 21 Raman Peace 22 Vata Wind 23 Dadvah Ohrmazd Creator-by-Din 24 Daena Religion 25 Ashi Recompense 26 Arshtat Justice 27 Asman Sky 28 Zam Earth 29 Manthra Spenta Holy Word 30 Anagra Raocha Endless Light''
''Holy Festivals''
''Although each day is holy, there are seven special holy festivals in the Zoroastrian calendar, dedicated to each Ameshaspand. Each festival goes for five days. The seventh festival, known as No Roz (“New Day”) is the greatest holy festival of the Mazdean calendar, prefiguring the final “New Day” of eternal bliss. Note that the festival dates, although associated with seasons, have drifted significantly from their original dates. The dates are given in Imperial (S) and Ancient (F).''
''Festival: Maidhyoi-zaremaya Purpose: Mid-spring Related Ameshaspand: Khshathra Vairya Related Creation: Sky Dates: 26 Feb. – 2 Mar. (S), 27 – 31 Mar. (F)''
''Festival: Maidhyoi-shema Purpose: Midsummer Related Ameshaspand: Haurvatat Related Creation: Water Dates: 26 – 30 Apr. (S), 26 – 30 May (F)''
''Festival: Paitishahya Purpose: Bringing in Corn Related Ameshaspand: Spenta Armaiti Related Creation: Earth Dates: 24 – 28 Jul. (S), 23 – 27 Aug. (F)''
''Festival: Ayathrima Purpose: Homecoming of the Herds Related Ameshaspand: Ameretat Related Creation: Plants Dates: 23 – 27 Aug. (S), 22 – 26 Sep. (F)''
''Festival: Maidhyairya Purpose: Midwinter Related Ameshaspand: Vohu Manah Related Creation: Cattle Dates: 23 – 27 Oct. (S), 22 – 26 Nov. (F)''
''Festival: Hamaspath-maedaya Purpose: All Souls Related Ameshaspand: Spenta Mainyu, Ohrmazd Related Creation: Man Dates: 25 Jan. 1221 (S), 24 Feb. 1221 (F)''
''Festival: No Roz Purpose: New Day Related Ameshaspand: Asha Vahishta Related Creation: Fire Dates: 27 Jan. 1220 (S), 26 Feb. 1220 (F)''
''The Twelve Months (in 1220)''
''Month Divine Being Corresponding Month 1 Farvadin January/February 2 Ardvahisht February/March 3 Hordad March/April 4 Tir April/May 5 Amurdad May/June 6 Shahrevar June/July 7 Mihr July/August 8 Avan August/September 9 Adar September/October 10 Dai October/November 11 Vahman November/December 12 Spendarmad December/January''
''Burial The ceremonies of death and burial are the most difficult, especially for those Mazdeans in Muslim lands, where they are forced to comply with local laws and customs. Traditionally, the corpse is ritually washed and dressed. A dog is presented, so it gazes at the corpse, both to ensure the person is really dead, and to ward off evil spirits (this ritual is called sagdid, “dogsight”). The Ahuna Vairya prayer is recited by priests, and then the body is taken to the funerary tower (dakhma, “Tower of Silence”), a massive tower-like building exposed to the sun and flesh-eating birds. The bones of the dead are left to dry, and then thrown into a deep well filled with lime and phosphorus. The soul of a Mazdean buried according to this way (or any Divine ritual) can never be affected by any form of magic. This puts it beyond the reach of Hermetic and other forms of magic.''

==The Mazdean Calendar==

''The Zoroastrian calendar has a year of twelve months with thirty days each, with an extra five days inserted after the eighth month in Persia, or at the end of the year elsewhere. There is no seven-day week for the followers of Zoroaster. Each day is dedicated to a divine being, to whom the faithful should dedicate their good actions and thoughts on that day. Each''
''month is also dedicated to a divine being. Consequently, once a month, the day and month have the same name, which is the cause for special reverence. The ninth day of the month, sacred to fire, is favored in any month for visits to the fire temple, but especially so during the ninth month (also sacred to fire).''
''There has been periodic reform of the calendar to stabilize the months in relation to the seasons, but over the decades and centuries the dates have drifted to become out of sync with the seasons (with no leap year, the day drifts by one day ever four years). This has resulted in different Mazdean communities using different calendars — the Shenshai (“Imperial”) and Fasli (“Ancient”) — so that they hold their holy days at different times. During the five days of the holy festivals, the Dominion Aura radiating from the fire temples takes on a nature abhorrent to the forces of Ahriman. Any creature with Infernal Might that seeks to enter the Aura is unable to do so if their Might Score is less than the Dominion Aura x10. Should they succeed in entering the Aura, they suffer an amount of damage per hour equal to the Dominion Aura rating (which can be Soaked as normal). On the final day of each holy festival, the damage inflicted on Infernal beings cannot be Soaked.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Haoma==

''Haoma (hom) is a sacred plant used to make an intoxicating drink. The drink is made by pounding the leaves and stems of the plant. The plant is so sacred that it has its own powerful yazata to protect and nurture it. When prepared according to sacred principles it increases health and fertility, and can even aid in the pursuit of immortality. Haoma is especially important for many Mazdean purification rituals, prayers, and invocations. When used in alchemical and herbal potions and brews, haoma grants a +3''
''bonus for effects that promote health or fertility and for effects that allow the consumer to see invisible, spiritual beings. When used in effects promoting longevity, it grants the character a +5 bonus. Consumed without mystical preparation, but properly fermented, haoma has mild hallucinogenic effects (temporarily granting the Visions Flaw), increases arousal, and increases strength (character gain a +1 bonus to acts of strength). The effects last between one and three hours.''

|}

==The Cradle & The Crescent Mazdean Scriptures==

''Zoroastrianism emphasizes its oral traditions and all priests learn the scriptures by heart. The words of Zoroaster were written down over his lifetime to form the Avesta. There are many books making up the Avesta, many of which have been lost, destroyed or pillaged following the Muslim conquest of the Sasanid Empire. While some fire temples may possess copies of parts — even large parts — the chief role of the priesthood is to act as living scriptures, memorizing every word and prayer.''
''Avesta''
''The Avesta contains the hymns, formulas, laws and stories of the Mazdean faith. There are two main parts to the Avesta. The Avesta is also written in multiple languages, Avestan and “Gathic,” a liturgical language for prayers. The Ability Dead Language: Avestan grants knowledge in both. There are translations into Parsi (and other languages, like Latin, Arabic, and Greek), although they are not considered holy.''
''The Yasna The Yasna is the chief liturgy of the Mazdeans. “Yasna” literally means “sacrifice”, and includes confessions, rituals, prayers, exhortations, praise, and worship of Ohrmazd. The Yasna is formed from six Gathas (hymns), and has a total of 72 chapters. Five of the six Gathas are considered to be the direct word of Zoroaster himself. The sixth was written by his disciples. (Summa, Theology: Zoroastrian, Quality 4, Level 9.)''
''The Visparad The shorter liturgy, the Visparad (“to all the lords”) is 23 chapters of invocations, praise, and hymns to Ohrmazd, the yazdan, and the other powerful divine beings, and also includes the seasonal festivals (gahambars). (Summa, Dominion Lore, Quality 3, Level 4.)''
''The Videvdat The Videvdat (Vendidad, “law abjuring demons”) has 22 sections containing the religious, civil, criminal, and purification laws of Mazdeanism. It also details the life of Zoroaster and the origins of medicine (medicine by knife, herbs, and sacred rites). (Summa, Theology: Zoroastrian, Quality 6, Level 6.)''
''The Khordeh Avesta Often combined with the Yasht (see later), the Khordeh Avesta (“Little Avesta”) is for use by priests and lay folk in private devotion. It is a summary of the Avesta, containing prayers, invocations, and blessings. (Tractatus, Theology: Zoroastrian, Quality 6)''
''The Yasht The Yasht (“worship”) is a collection of 22 hymns and prayers invoking yazdan and angels. Each prayer invokes only a single being, such as Ohrmazd, each of the Ameshaspand, and the sun, moon, stars, Mithra, and Sroasha respectively. (Tractatus, Theology: Zoroastrian, Quality 6)''

==Mazdean Characters==

''Mazdean characters have access to unique Virtues, Flaws, and Abilities, reflecting their faith, culture and society.''

==Virtues and Abilities==

''Making a Mazdean character depends on the saga. Sagas set in predominately Muslim or Christian lands would see the Mazdean character take the Outsider Major Flaw. In areas where Mazdeans are a sizeable minority, or even a majority, then the other Social Status Virtues and Flaws can also be taken.''
''There are Zoroastrian versions of the Theology and Civil and Canon Law Abilities. Additionally, some mobeds and Mazdeans may speak Avestan, their sacred religious language. Most Mazdeans speak Parsi (Persian) or the language of their area, such as Arabic. A mobed character may take the Senior Clergy Major Social Status Virtue (see The Church, Diocese Chapter), reflecting the character’s status as a dastur (“senior priest”). This reflects the fact that your character is in charge of several subordinate mobeds, and probably governs a large fire temple. Mazdeans typically do not take Virtues or Flaws that would make them a monk or nun. To Mazdeans, the world is a wonderful place to be lived in and enjoyed. The fight against evil takes place in society, so being cloistered away and practicing an ascetic lifestyle of deprivation is not in keeping with their faith. There is also no tradition of wandering holy men or women in orthodox Mazdeanism (precluding analogs of Virtues or Flaws such as Mendicant Friar).''
''New Ability: Dead Language (Avestan)''
''Avestan is the holy liturgical language of the Zoroastrian Holy Scriptures, used by Zoroaster himself. No longer spoken or written outside of the fire temples, the language is now used purely for sacred hymns and prayers. This ability allows your character to read and write texts in Avestan, and to understand the words of prayers spoken in Avestan. To write this language (written from right to left), your character must have a score of at least one in Artes Liberales. This Ability is generally only possessed by mobeds. Specialties: Liturgies, scripture, oral tradition, alphabets, myths. (Academic)''
''New Virtue: Magian Lineage''
''Minor or Major, General This Virtue makes the character a true blood descendent of the original Median''
''tribe of Magians, the original priestly caste of Persia. Many mobeds possess this Virtue, either Minor or Major, but is not a requisite.''
''Minor: Your character’s lineage is weak, although he or she is still ethnically Magian, and gains a strong constitution due to his purity. The character gains a –1 bonus to Aging rolls and a +3 bonus to resist the effects of disease. Major: In addition to the benefits of the Minor Virtue, your character has an affinity with the ancient prophetic and other mystical arts of your ancestors. The player must choose three Arcane or Supernatural Abilities which the character need not start play with, and which cannot be True Names. These Abilities are considered connected, so that whenever your character successfully studies one of these Abilities (that is, gains at least one experience point from study), he or she gains an additional experience point in each of the other two.''
''New Virtue: Mazdean Priest''
''Minor, Social Your character is an ordained Mazdean priest, initiated as a mobed. This means that the character may carry out the various rituals and ceremonies, such as the Yasna, Vivevdat, Navjote, marriage, burial, official prayers, purification rituals, lighting of sacred fires, and initiation of new priests. In Mazdean communities, your character is held in high regard and treated with great respect. The character wears pure white clothes and when performing ceremonies, covers his face with a white veil to protect the sacred flame from his breath and saliva. As a mobed, your character resides in a community that likely has a fire temple. This means that your character has arduous and time-consuming religious and ceremonial duties. Most of your time is spent praying, performing ritual purification rites and tending to the sacred fire. If you are Wealthy, you have several ervads (junior priests) who perform many of the more arduous tasks.''
''If you are Poor, it likely reflects the poor station of Mazdeans in the community in general, and you may also possess the Outsider Flaw. Your character may take Academic Abilities at character generation. You must take the Minor Personality Flaw Vow (ArM5, page 60) to reflect your constant state of ritual purity, and dedication to your community. This Virtue is only available to male characters.''
''New Virtue: Knowledge of True Names''
''Minor or Major Supernatural Your character may start play knowing one or more True Names of supernatural beings. Any Mazdean character may take this Virtue, although it is only of use to those characters with supernatural abilities or powers. This Virtue reflects the deep and ancient occult knowledge possessed by the mobeds. At the storyguide’s discretion, this virtue may be made available to other characters, such as sahirs, Hermetic theurgists, infernalists, or Holy Magi.''
''Minor: This virtue grants you 30 experience points to spend on True Names — each True Name costs 5 experience points to learn. Names with fewer than 5 experience points provide no benefit at all, but you can decide to partially learn a True Name by spending fewer than 5 experience points on it. Each True Name is recorded under Abilities as “True Name of (Being).” The character may know the True Names of beings from the Magic, Faerie and Infernal realms. You may take this virtue more than once to gain additional experience points to spend on True Names. Major: The Major Virtue version of Knowledge of True Names is identical to the Minor version, also granting 30 experience points, except that you may also know the True Names of angels and other divine beings. Storyguides and troupes should consider this Virtue carefully before allowing it.''

==The Mobeds: Princes of Magic==

''Without a doubt magic arose in Persia, with Zoroaster. On this our authorities are agreed …''
''— Pliny, Natural History, 30.2.3''
''The priests of Ohrmazd are the mobeds, whose lineage can be traced back to the Median tribe and Zoroaster himself. The mobeds are a holy tradition, with Initiations that grant them unique holy powers. In centuries past, the mobeds were sages who possessed great occult knowledge. In addition to their holy powers, they had mastered the forces of magic, astrology, alchemy, and theurgy. That knowledge is largely lost in the 13th century, and mobeds are now almost exclusively practitioners of holy powers. The Mazdean priesthood is hereditary: only sons of a mobed or the male descendents of a priestly family can be considered for priestly office. Needless to say, mobeds are not celibate and may marry. There are several ranks, and initiations that must be performed to achieve each rank. The lowest rank of Mazdean priest is that of ervad. An ervad may perform ordinary services, but none of the important rituals. The ceremony of martab initiates a priest to the rank of mobed, a fully qualified priest, able to perform all services and rituals. The highest remaining rank is that of dastur, the head of a group of priests of an area or particular fire temple. Higher levels of the priesthood have been lost to time.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Zoroastrian Magi==

''Realms of Power: The Divine gives rules for Zoroastrian holy magi on pages 116–117. Those rules could also provide inspiration for Zoroastrian holy sahirs, although the benefits of Holy Magic would need to be adapted.''

|}
''Few mobeds today possess The Gift. This allows them to integrate into society easily and take on influential and trusted roles. A relatively large proportion of mobeds also possess True Faith and may perform miracles. This may be because of special divine favor, or because only the truly devout become priests in a small and oppressed religion.''

==Mobeds in Western Eyes==

''To Western wizards and mages, the priests of Zoroaster were an order of seers who were dedicated to the service of the gods who had strong constitutions and lived to a great age, for their profession as magi made it incumbent upon them to observe the strict rules of life.''
''The mobeds are known for their pious study and worship, their ethics, divinations and prophecy, holy learning, and rules of purity. Few Hermetic wizards would believe that the Persian magoi still remain a living tradition. The relics, scriptures, and holy rituals of the magoi are legend, highly sought after. Zoroastrian texts are considered masterpieces of the magical arts, containing everything from hidden truths of alchemy, to the names of archangels and demon princes. Some Hermetic magi, however, believe their knowledge to have been primitive.''

==Mobeds and the Suhhar Sulayman==

''Non-mobed sorcerers before the seventh century were ignored and spurned by the Mazdean priesthood. The nonMazdean sorcerers of Persia and the Holy Land were no match for the great imperial powers of the mobeds. This situation was reversed after the seventh century. The Order of Solomon became the Suhhar Sulayman, and the Islamic sages and sorcerers now reign supreme in Persia, while the mobeds are an insignificant force on the periphery of the civilized world. As in the West, their lore, rituals and secrets are greatly prized, and their historical knowledge of the mystic arts of astrology and alchemy is admired, if not associated with the mobeds still living.''

==The Magic of the Mobeds==

''Mobeds practice holy powers, although these powers are only bestowed upon those initiated into full mobed rank; ervads normally have no special divine powers. The rank of dastur indicates both a political and ceremonial rank, and also suggests investment of some mystic powers. Mobeds teach as Favored Abilities the Holy Method Invocation; the Holy Powers Adjuration and Wonders; and the''
''Sense Holiness and Unholiness Supernatural Ability. Favored Abilities are Supernatural Abilities taught by the mobed tradition, and for which mobed characters do not need to subtract the total of their Supernatural Ability scores from their Advancement Total (see ArM5, page 166). Mobeds also teach a range of non-favored Supernatural Abilities, either suffering the penalties or initiating them as a Mystery. Favored Abilities only impact mobeds with True Faith; mobeds without such a connection to Ohrmazd must take the appropriate Virtues at character creation, or Initiate into them during play. A great number of Mystery powers are available to mobeds, although it is extremely rare for a community of Mazdeans to possess a mobed that knows more than one or two. Mobeds experience the Divine Ascent in place of generic Warping or Twilight, with Divine Form the most common kind of Ascent.''
''Mazdean Hedge Magic''
''The mobeds are known for their strong alchemical lore; the Videvdat, for example, focuses on alchemy and medicine. Mobeds may take the Mythic Alchemy and Mythic Herbalism Virtues (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 81–82) without the need for any further background explanation, and these Virtues are often associated with the Divine Realm, rather than Magic. However, it is not unusual for a mobed to have supernatural powers derived from both realms.''

==Holy Powers==

''The Holy Powers taught by the mobed tradition are spectacular and majestic, commanding the forces of nature and creating life out of nothing. When mobeds invoke their divine wonders, they use the sacred names of yazdan and the Ameshaspand; their prayers call upon the aid of the Wise Lord himself. Especially powerful mobeds can even call into existence divine''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Supernatural Abilities Taught by the Mobeds==

''Favored Abilities: Invocation, Adjuration, Wonders, Sense Holiness and Unholiness Other Abilities (not favored): Ceremony, Dream Interpretation, Mythic Alchemy, Mythic Herbalism''
''Mobed characters are not limited to the Abilities listed here; these are simply common to the societas.''

==New Ability: Mobed Lore==

''This Ability is the Organization Lore for the mobeds, and is used for their initiation rituals. This lore does not give any specific knowledge of the Mazdean faith, beliefs, or rituals (this is represented by the Ability Theology: Mazdean), but rather the legends, history, and structure of the priesthood, as well as the specific initiation rites and oral lore of the mobed tradition.''

|}
''spirits to perform tasks for them and give them aid.''
''Casting Score: Communication + Invocation + Holy''

===Power + Modifiers + Aura + Die Roll===

''If this total is less than the target Level, the effect doesn’t happen, but there might be other effects instead, in the form of supernatural retribution. This is called a Tragedy of Hubris. It might manifest as a curse, a loss of ability, fatigue, a physical injury, or even a Flaw. It is also a great opportunity for an appropriate story event. This tragedy usually lasts only until the character has somehow atoned or made amends for his presumptuous actions, though the effects are sometimes permanent, depending on the severity of the transgression.''
''Minor Tragedy (–1 to –10) • A Method, Power or other Supernatural Ability is halved • Gain a Minor Flaw, e.g., Lesser Malediction, Fear, Poor Memory, SimpleMinded • Suffer a Medium wound • Receive three extra botch dice on all rolls • Gain a Warping point''
''Major Tragedy (–11 to –20) • A Method, Power or other Supernatural Ability is lost • Gain a Major Flaw, e.g., Greater''
''Malediction, Blind, or Enfeebled • Suffer a Heavy wound • Permanently suffer a minor tragedy • Gain a Decrepitude point''
''Ultimate Tragedy (–21 or more) • All Supernatural Abilities are lost • Character possessed by a supernatural''
''creature • Suffer an Incapacitating wound • Permanently suffer a major tragedy • A terrible plague, war, or famine affects the entire region''
''Invocation''
''By addressing God and the servants of the Divine, commanding them by their names, and entreating them for aid, your''
''character can cause holy effects to manifest. This might be because God’s servants hear your character’s pleas and intervene, or because your character’s understanding of God’s word is such that he can wield God’s power using God’s voice. This typically relies on Communication, and requires that the character invest Confidence in the effect.''
''Adjuration''
''Adjuration is the Power to summon, control and banish supernatural creatures''
''of all kinds, including dispelling their powers and compelling their cooperation. Through Adjuration, God asserts his ultimate authority over creation and both the natural and supernatural worlds. Adjuration is also the witnessing of oaths and truths, by forcing otherworldly beings to recognize God’s authority and obey him. The target might cry out in pain and wonder when affected, or speak in a different voice that represents its true nature for the effect’s duration. Invocation is used to compel creatures to act, often forcing them to use their powers on the holy character’s behalf.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Adjuration Guidelines==

''When these guidelines refer to a supernatural creature, it means a specific entity with a Might score.''
''Level 4: Bind a supernatural creature to the terms of a contract. (Invocation) Level 5: Compel a supernatural creature within range to manifest in your presence. (Invocation) Level 10: Compel a supernatural creature to reveal the truth, even a demon; you may ask one question, and if you overcome the creature’s Magic Resistance it must answer you hon''
''estly. (Invocation) Level 15: Compel a supernatural creature to do your bidding; you may give it one command which it must follow exactly for the duration. (Invocation) Level 20: Compel a mundane creature to do your bidding, as earlier. (Invocation) Level 25: Compel a human being to do your bidding, as earlier. This command must be within the person’s nature, as evidenced by appropriate Personality traits. (Invocation)''

==True Names==

''Mobeds may learn and use True Names (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 34, and also Realms of Power: The Divine, page 20). Each True Name is treated as a special Ability called “True Name of (Being),” and costs 5 experience points to learn, and once a True Name is learned, your character gains 1 experience point to the being’s associ''
''ated Realm Lore. True Names grant a +5 bonus to Penetration modifiers, and are of indefinite duration. Mobeds have access to hundreds of True Names of angels and demons. Characters may start play knowing the True Name of one or more beings (see the Knowledge of True Name Virtue, earlier in this chapter).''

==Using Vis==

''Mobeds may use holy and magical vis. If a mobed knows certain mysteries, he may even extract vis from an aura. Holy vis grants the same mechanical''
''bonuses as magic vis. The consequences of profaning holy vis, or using it for diabolical ends can be dire, risking Divine retribution.''

|}
''Wonders''
''Those who ask properly will receive God’s gifts, for God provides for the faithful in need. God also summons storms, fire, winds, and other powerful natural forces. These wonders are created at the holy character’s command, and even controlled by him to some extent, although God always keeps His hand upon His miracles. Such things may appear at times to listen to another voice, and act in ways that the holy character does not anticipate. These effects use Invocation to conjure and command divine forces by their name and purpose. When a character suffers a Tragedy of Hubris with Wonders, he might create unwanted items, such as rotten food, vermin, or mud. Or the effect might still happen, but completely out of his control.''

==Holy Virtues==

''The following virtues are appropriate for characters of the mobed tradition.''
''Adjuration''
''Major, Supernatural This Virtue allows the character to command and control supernatural beings, and he begins with the Supernatural Ability Adjuration 1.''
''Dream Interpretation''
''Major, Supernatural The character can understand and interpret the secret meaning of dreams. This Virtue gives the Supernatural Ability Dream Interpretation 1, which may be used in place of Meditation to activate Holy Powers and also allows him to interpret dreams of a general nature. Mobeds may take Dream Interpretation, although it is not an Ability favored by their tradition. It may, however, be Initiated into as a Mystery Virtue.''
''Invocation''
''Major, Supernatural This Virtue gives the character Invocation 1, a Supernatural Ability which''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Wonders Guidelines==

''General:	Create a dangerous substance, like fire or poison, that does +(base level of the spell) damage upon contact. (Invocation)  Create a natural substance that harms non-divine supernatural creatures, such as water that corrodes like acid or a light that burns like fire, doing +(base level – 5) damage. (Invocation) Level 2: Create a mature living plant, or cause a plant to grow more quickly. (Invocation) Level 3: Create and control a common force of nature, such as a gust of wind or a burst of flame. (Invocation)  Create a non-living natural object, such as an animal corpse, driftwood, or a rock. (Invocation) Level 5: Create and control an unusual force of nature, such as a sudden''
''storm from a clear sky, or a light that shines like the day. (Invocation)  Create nourishing food or drink, enough to sustain a single person. (Invocation)  Create a nonliving object that has been processed in some way, such as a leather coat, a lance, or a coin. (Invocation) Level 15: Create and control a powerful force of nature, such as winds that lift a person off of the ground or a flame that lights up the sky for miles. (Invocation)  Create a living, docile bird, fish, lizard, or amphibian. (Invocation) Level 20: Create a living, docile mammal. (Invocation) Level 30: Create an animal with Divine Might 5. Each 5 points of additional Might increases the Level by 10. (Invocation)''

|}
''allows him use the Holy Method of Invocation and to roll a stress die for miraculous effects.''
''Wonders''
''Major, Supernatural The character begins with the Supernatural Ability Wonders 1, which allows him to conjure holy items, creatures, and the elements at God’s will.''

==Holy Abilities==

''These abilities can be taken by characters of the mobed tradition.''
''Adjuration*''
''The character is skilled in controlling and banishing supernatural creatures and their powers (see Miraculous Effects, later). Specialties: type of creatures (angels, demons, ghosts, faeries), causing a specific effect. (Supernatural)''
''Dream Interpretation*''
''In the Mazdean tradition, Ohrmazd and His servants regularly send messages and prophecies through dreams: Zoroaster received visions and guidance from the Wise Lord on many occasions. Dream interpretation helps mobeds translate the confusing symbolism in dreams to make clear their deeper meaning. The Dream Interpretation Ability has two uses. The first is a form of Meditation, as per the Holy Method, used in combination with Holy Powers. In this case the character must engage in ritual prayer for an hour before spending a full night in restful sleep. Upon waking the character must spend (6 – Dream Interpretation, to a minimum of 1) hours contemplating the imagery revealed to him in his dream. At the end of that time you roll for the miraculous effect as normal. Note that Meditation cannot be used with Adjuration or Wonders; see Realms of Power: The Divine,''
''page 48. However, mobeds may possess other Holy Powers. The second use is a form of direct divination. In this case the character is interpreting his own dreams or the dreams of others to find answers to posed questions. The dreamer must be prepared, as per the other use of the Dream Interpretation Ability, and upon waking the character again spends (6 – Dream Interpretation, to a minimum of 1) hours contemplating the imagery. You may then make an Intelligence + Dream Interpretation roll. Characters with the Premonitions Ability gain a bonus equal to their Premonitions score. The Ease Factor is the level of the equivalent Momentary non-ritual Intellego Hermetic spell. Holding an arcane connection to a target is treated as Touch range and the Boundary target does not require a ritual. The usual rules for penetration in ArM5, page 184, apply to this Ability. Most who possess the Dream Interpretation Ability have specific rituals that they believe help them to achieve insight. Some fast before sleeping, some wear ritual clothes while they sleep, while others''
''sleep in graveyards in order to gain the assistance of ghosts. Specialties: Any appropriate Holy Power, own dreams or the dreams of others, dreams had under specific circumstances (Supernatural)''
''Invocation*''
''Using holy words, phrases and prayers, the character can invoke Ohrmazd’s power. He must either cry out his prayer in a loud voice, or somehow inscribe his prayer in writing. This adds the character’s Communication to your roll, and requires that he spend a point of Confidence (or Faith) to bring the effect into being. You may also roll a stress die instead of a simple die when calling a holy effect if you wish. By doing so, the character essentially commands rather than entreat God’s aid, summoning more potential power but risking giving greater offense should he prove unworthy. Specialties: using holy names, in writing, affecting a particular kind of target. (Supernatural)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==New Wonders Guidelines==

''General: Create a sacred spiritual force that that can neutralize the spiritual taint of the Infernal Realm. For example, the force could transform Infernal Warping into Divine Warping (1 Warping Point per level of effect is transfigured), although the Warping itself is not removed. The power can strip the infernal nature of Infernal vis, completely destroying the vis (1 pawn of vis per 3 levels of effect). It can also destroy Confidence Points gained through committing sin (1 Confidence Point per 5 levels); note that doing this causes the target to feel great remorse for the acts they performed to gain the Infernally gained Confidence Points (this does not work against demons, but can work against other creatures with Infernal Might). (Invocation)''
''Create a sacred force that acts as the Scourging the Infernal power radiated by relics (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 45), forcing infernal beings to flee (note that this is an equivalent effect, not a true relic power). Use the level of the effect in place of the Divine Might of the relic when calculating the effect of the aura. (Invocation) Level 35: Create a spirit with Divine Might 5. Each 5 points of additional Might increases the Level by 10. (Invocation)''

|}
''Wonders*''
''The character can cause living creatures, non-living objects, and forces of nature to manifest through God’s power (see Miraculous Effects, later). Specialties: causing a specific effect, a particular kind of material, in specific circumstances. (Supernatural)''

==Group Magic==

''Mobeds can practice their magic collectively. In times past, when they were an imperial priesthood, hundreds of mobeds would gather to perform great rituals in honor of Ohrmazd and his angels. In the 13th century, few communities have more than a few Mazdean priests and those that do are unlikely to possess the knowledge of such powerful rites. To perform group powers, mobeds use the Ceremony Ability (see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 34–36), and engage in prayers and rituals. Most of these are communal in nature, and so laypeople will often participate (although this gives no mechanical bonus).''

==Holy Mobed Mysteries==

''The mobeds have several unique mysteries that are holy in nature (that is, they can only be initiated by a character with Holy Powers or True Faith). Many allow mobeds to wield mystical powers.''
''Blessing of [Ameshaspand] (Minor Mystery Virtue)''
''The mobed with this holy mystery gets a +3 bonus to Casting Scores for holy powers used in the area covered by a specific Ameshaspand (see list). There is a different version of this virtue for each Ameshaspand.''
''Ameshaspand: Asha Vahishta Meaning: “Best Righteousness” Equivalent Form(s): Ignem, Imaginem''
''Ameshaspand: Khshathra Vairya Meaning: “Desirable Dominion” Equivalent Form(s): Vim''
''Ameshaspand: Haurvatat Meaning: “Health” Equivalent Form(s): Aquam, Auram''
''Ameshaspand: Spenta Armaiti Meaning: “Holy Devotion” Equivalent Form(s): Terram''
''Ameshaspand: Ameretat Meaning: “Long Life” Equivalent Form(s): Herbam''
''Ameshaspand: Vohu Manah Meaning: “Good Purpose” Equivalent Form(s): Animal''
''Ameshaspand: Spenta Mainyu Meaning: “Holy Spirit” Equivalent Form(s): Corpus, Mentem''
''Mazdean Alchemy (Minor Mystery Virtue)''
''Through Mazdean Alchemy, a mobed may distill vis from a Divine Aura. Distilling divine vis takes a season before the vis is extracted. The character uses as his Lab Total his Intelligence + Invocation + Wonders + Holy Magic + modifiers. Modifiers include the aura, bonuses from Lab assistants and so on. The Lab Total is divided by 10, as per Hermetic vis extraction.''
''Mazdean Astrology (Major Mystery Virtue)''
''This Mystery allows the character to use his knowledge of the heavens to determine the most effective time to pay or use holy powers. The mobed may also use new astrological durations.''
''Celestial Durations No duration may be longer than a year. Failing the calculation roll causes the effect to fail. Botching a calculation roll causes the effect to botch.''
''Minutes: The effect lasts for a certain number of astrological minutes. Equivalent to Diameter. To calculate the duration correctly, succeed in a roll of Intelligence + Artes Liberales + dice against an Ease Factor of 6 + Number of Minutes desired. Hours: The effect lasts a number of astrological hours, regardless of sunrise or sunset. Equivalent to Sun. To calculate the duration correctly, succeed in a roll of Intelligence + Artes Liberales + dice against an Ease Factor of 6 + Number of Hours desired. Days: The effect lasts a number of astrological days, regardless of the lunar phase. Equivalent to Moon. To calculate the duration correctly, succeed in a roll of Intelligence + Artes Liberales + dice against an Ease Factor of 6 + Number of Days desired. Sign: The effect lasts a number of astrological signs, regardless of sunrise or sunset. Equivalent to Year. To calculate''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Mobed Beliefs on Astrology==

''According to the holy Zoroastrian tome, the Dadistan i Menok i Khrat (“Judgments of the Spirit of Wisdom”), the art of Astrology was passed from the Spirit of Wisdom to Zoroaster. Mobeds believe that welfare and adversity on Earth originates through the seven planets and the twelve zodiacal signs. To the mobeds, the twelve great Spirits of the Zodiac are among Ohrmazd’s most capable and holy de''
''fenders, constantly striving to bring goodness and wellbeing into the world. The planets (the Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, and Saturn), on the other hand, are ruled by monstrous demons, which, by dint of being closer to the world, constantly thwart their zodiacal rivals and more often than not succeed in bringing ruin and misery to humanity (an explanation of why Earth is not a paradise).''

|}
''the duration correctly, succeed in a roll of Intelligence + Artes Liberales + dice against an Ease Factor of 6 + Number of Signs desired.''
''Astrological minutes, hours, and days are equal in length to normal units of time, but have no fixed starting point, so that the effect lasts a fixed length of time, rather than until a fixed point. Astrological signs are, similarly, one-twelfth of a year each.''
''Celestial Blessing for Holy Spell Casting The mobed may determine the most favorable hour for performing holy magic, holy powers or use other divine abilities. By aligning his practices to the beneficial powers of the stars, he may gain a bonus of +1 to +5. The player must decide on the activity and bonus desired before rolling, and succeed in a roll of Intelligence + Artes Liberales (Astrology) + simple die against an Ease Factor of (desired bonus x 4). If successful, the mobed determines an hour during that day (selected by the storyguide) in which the activity will benefit from the desired bonus. If the mobed does not perform the chosen activity in that hour, there is no benefit. A mobed may perform this calculation multiple times for a single day, but each hour may have no more than one bonus. A failed roll in''
''dicates that the mobed can find no more bonuses for that day.''
''Righteousness of the Wise (Minor Mystery Virtue)''
''Mobeds believe that Spenta Mainyu revealed these secrets (and others) directly to Zoroaster before taking him to Ohrmazd. For many mobeds, the attribute of wisdom is the highest nature of God.''
''This Mystery Virtue grants the mobed access to unique Ranges, Durations, and Targets that are compatible with Holy Powers (see insert).''
''Saoshyant’s Elixir (Major Mystery Virtue)''
''The ritual of Saoshyant’s Elixir (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 117) is the Zoroastrian route to immortality. The ceremo''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==New Durations, Ranges, and Targets==

''New Duration: Fire''
''The spell will last as long as a specific sacred fire burns in a specific fire temple (the fire and temple must be determined at the time of casting the spell). Fire is equivalent to Moon.''
''New Range: Ground''
''The target can be affected so long as he/it is touching the same ground that the caster is standing upon. The caster need not be able to see the target. Rivers, mountains and other significant obstacles (although not roads or walls) act''
''as boundaries to this range. Furthermore, the ground must be natural earth. Artificial ground, like floorboards or cobble stones, puts a target out of this Range. Ground is equivalent to Arcane Connection.''
''New Target: Community''
''Affects everyone living in the same community. A community is defined as a group of people living in the same locality, or who form a distinct segment of society (such as Jews, beggars, or Christians, but can also include plants or animals). Community is equivalent to Boundary.''

==Saoshyant’s Elixir==

''Invocation Wonders Level 50 R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual Only the most pious, holy and experienced mobeds ever attempt the preparation of Saoshyant’s elixir. This holy ritual requires a season of preparation to cast. These are the instructions for preparing the elixir of eternal life, that which raises our bodies from the elements into which they have been dissolved and reunites them with our souls, as handed down from Saoshyant the Savior. The mobed must first prepare himself for salvation by undergoing a terrible ordeal. Molten metal (usually lead) is poured over his entire body, which''
''he must endure for three days (see Injuries, Heat and Corrosion in ArM5, page 181). The surging metal removes all taint from his soul and purifies his flesh, but also causes him terrible pain and injury, though it is said to feel like being bathed in warm milk if the mobed is completely without sin. Some of the metal probably sticks to his body, and if he survives he must bear these disfiguring patches grafted to his skin like tattoos for the rest of his days, as removing them again exposes him to evil and undoes the effects of the ritual. Once the mobed are is of evil, he must sacrifice a holy animal, usually a bull with Divine Might. This provides''
''the necessary vis for the spell, and from its fat Saoshyant’s elixir may be distilled. Drink this, and for as long as the mobed strictly follows the tenets of Mazdeanism, he does not have to make aging rolls and cannot die. Instead, he gains a Warping point every year, another whenever he gains Aging or Decrepitude points from other means, and another when he would die from his wounds or a lethal blow. Fatal wounds Incapacitate him instead. Saoshyant’s Elixir is intensely personal and cannot be cast upon another; to gain the gift of extended life on earth, a mobed must perform it himself. (Special)''

|}
''ny itself is a sacred and holy purification rite. Gaining this Mystery Virtue grants you knowledge of the ritual, which can be performed with the Holy Method and Power, Invocation and Wonders. Like the ritual in Realms of Power: The Divine, the level of this holy rite is 50.''
''Gifts of Gayomart (Major Mystery Virtue)''
''Gayomart (“Primeval Man”) was the Zoroastrian Adam or “first man,” and is seen as the embodiment of human perfection. This Holy Mystery opens the human body and soul to the Light of God, making those characters with True Faith even more holy and sacred. A character must possess True Faith to initiate this mystery. The mystery grants the character additional powers as his True Faith score increases (see “Embodying the Light,” Realms of Power: The Divine, page 61).''
''Asha (Truth): True Faith 1 The character cannot be lied to or purposefully deceived. In his presence, no one may speak or communicate a direct lie. This power has a Penetration equal to his True Faith score, and may be increased by +5 for each Faith point spent. If this power Penetrates, even demons and faeries cannot deceive him.''
''Vohu Manah (Good Mind): True Faith 4 Through Vohu Mana, the mobed personifies wisdom and the true path to God. He gains a Commanding Aura (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 42), which grants a bonus to his soak equal to twice his True Faith score, and a commanding aura''
''(equivalent to Aura of Rightful Authority with Voice range). (The normal Commanding Aura also grants Magic Resistance, but True Faith grants that anyway.)''
''Hauvatat (Wholeness): True Faith 6 The mobed’s physical body becomes immune to putrefaction, change, disease and all forms of material corruption and decay. Subtract double the character’s True Faith score from Aging Rolls. He more easily resists magical attempts to alter the shape of his body, inflict harm upon him or give him diseases or wounds. He gains an additional bonus to Soak and Recovery rolls equal to his True Faith Score x3 (giving a total bonus to Soak totals of True Faith x5, with the bonus from Vohu Manah). Furthermore, he no longer scars or blemishes, as his body slowly returns to its perfect natural state. Incapacitating wounds no longer leave permanent marks upon him, and given enough time (years) he can re-grow lost limbs and other body parts.''
''Ameratat (Immortality): True Faith 8 So long as the mobed maintain the maxims of Zoroaster and Ohrmazd, remains in a state of purity and truthfulness, observes the taboos and behaves with good thoughts, good words and good deeds, he will never die, and gain Warping Points instead of Decrepitude points. Mechanically this requires that the character have a Faith Point gained from a purity ritual at all times. His body slowly ages, although he can more easily resist its effects through the gift of Hauvatat. While this virtue means the character effectively will never die, he can still be killed by massive damage.''

==Mobed Initiations==

''Mobeds can initiate unGifted practitioners into their mysteries. The rules for this are laid out in Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 13.''
''Mobed Initiation Scripts''
''Mobeds use their Mobed Lore for initiation totals. The mystagogue is typically another initiated mobed or dastur. It is possible for mobeds to self-initiate if they have a script but no mystagogue, although most mobeds seek out a mystagogue from another community. The scripts used by mobeds to Initiate their various powers typically emphasize extreme purity and lengthy prayers. Initiations can also require the initiate to challenge and overcome great foes — powerful demons and evil sorcerers. Similarly, Ordeals could also require the initiate to end famine, hunger or disease for a community. Initiation Quests typically involve the establishment of a fire temple, the conversion of a significant or notable person, or recovery and proper burial of a deceased Mazdean. While there are many written Initiation Scripts, Mazdeanism places great value on the oral tradition; many of the living Initiations are oral Scripts.''
''Initiation into Mythic Alchemy Initiation Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +5 (+3 Quest: light ceremonial fire, +1 Sacrifice of wealth, +1 time) The initiate must light one of the grand ceremonial fires of the Mazdean faith, known as the atesh adaran , in honor of the first 27 yazdan, and Ameratat. This typically takes a season to properly prepare and perform, and takes significant expenditure. The initiate must remain in a state of ritual purity throughout the process.''
''Initiation into Mythic Herbalism Initiation Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +13 (+3 Quest, +9''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Long-Lived Mobeds==

''There have been several long-lived mobeds: the high priests Vishtana, Tansar, and Kartir all lived for several generations, as did Osthanes, the first Prince of Magi. However, each reached''
''a point of wanting to take their reward in the next life. The practical lifespan of a mobed with the Ameratat power is no more than around 200 years.''

|}
''Major Flaw: Enfeebled, +1 Sympathetic Bonus) The intitiate must must hunt down and destroy a powerful disease-causing Infernal spirit, while affected by the illness that the spirit causes. The illness must inflict the equivalent of the Enfeebled Major Flaw. This shows that he is capable of personally overcoming terrible sickness mystically and physically. Apart from the illness, the initiate must remain in a state of ritual purity throughout the initiation.''
''Initiation into Dream Interpretation Initiation Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +6 (+1 time, +3 Sympathetic bonus, +3 Minor Flaw: Offensive to Animals) Dream Interpretation can only be intitiated into by a Mazdean who is married by the Mazdean ritual. The intitiate must spend a season in meditation, prayer, ritual cleansing, and contemplation of his dreams. Finally, at the end of the season, the initiate must travel deep into the wil''
''derness in an area with many wild animals, imbibe ceremonial haoma, and survive for the night without magical aid. During this night, and thereafter, the initiate has the Offensive to Animals Flaw. Overcoming this obstacle symbolises the intitiate’s triumph over nightmares.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
