''Arabia is the heartland of Islam, home to the two holy cities of Mecca and Medina. Muslims are encouraged to visit this region at some point during their lives to fulfill the obligation of the hajj — the greater pilgrimage to Mecca — though for many practical concerns make this impossible. Ancient cities lie buried beneath the sands of Arabia, holy shrines are scattered across its landscape, and jinn and other supernatural creatures haunt deserted ruins and even mix with the inhabitants of some of its cities.''

==Landscape and Society==

''The landscape of Arabia is more varied than most western travelers would expect. North Arabia, once known as Arabia Petra to the Romans, is a desert land of stone and sand. While much of the peninsula is indeed covered by arid deserts, there are also mountain ranges running parallel to most of the coastal regions, with narrow but fertile coastal plains between''
''them and the sea. Of particular note is a large high plateau in the eastern half of the peninsula, encompassing the provinces of the Najd and Yamama, which has fertile valleys where crops are grown and animals (mainly sheep and goats) are pastured. In the south, the land rises into hills and mountains rich with incense trees, water, and other natural resources — significant portions of Hadramawt and Yemen are forested, and these features gave rise to the Roman name for the province, Arabia Felix. The old trade routes of the incense road that once ran through the deserts now track through the Red Sea around the Arabian coast and onwards to the fabled ports of the Erythraean Sea of the ancients. Much of the peninsula is dotted with oases, around which villages and towns have sprung up. This is particularly true of the coastal provinces and the Najd/ Yamama region, though such settlements may also be found in some of the deserts. The exception is the dreaded Empty Quarter, an inhospitable wasteland that is rumored to swallow all who venture into it. The inhabitants of Arabia consist of a mixture of settled townsfolk, many of whom cultivate crops for a living, and Bedouin nomads who wander with their families and flocks, trading with the townsfolk or working as guides and caravan guards on the network of trade and pilgrimage routes that cross the area. Periodically tensions flare up between townsfolk and nomads, but for the most part relations are peaceful. One influential factor here is the religion of Islam, which most people follow in one form or another, although there are also many Christians and Jews living throughout the region.''
''The inhabited parts of Arabia are generally ruled by local dynasties, most of whom owe nominal allegiance to the Abbasid caliph of Baghdad. The Hijaz, ‘Asir, and Yemen are divided between members of the Ayyubid family ((ay-YOO-bids), the family of Salah al-Din (Saladin)), with the Hijaz falling under the nominal control of the sultan of Egypt (al-Kamil Muhammad, r. 1218–38), while ‘Asir and Yemen are controlled more directly by the sultan of Yemen (al-Mas’ud Yusuf, r. 1215–1229).''

==Hazards of the Deserts==

''Arabia contains three major deserts: the Nefud Desert to the north, the Empty Quarter to the south, and the Dahna corridor that links the two. These deserts present a range of hazards that must be overcome if characters are to travel safely within them. The sun burns hot in the deserts, meaning that characters need to take precautions against heat and sunstroke. This includes covering their skin to avoid sunburn and carrying adequate supplies of water to stave off dehydration. The De''
''privation check time for lack of water is reduced in the deserts to 4 hours, while the sunlight does +1 non-combat damage if skin is left exposed (see ArM5, pages 180–181). Another (usually natural) hazard is dry quicksands, which can swallow a man and his mount in seconds. If a character steps on one of these, he begins to sink immediately and is pulled under within two rounds. Death from suffocation follows if he is not rescued (again, see ArM5, pages 180–181). A character who is caught in an area of dry quicksand may make a Strength or Quickness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 in''

[|

==Zawba’a, Whirlwind of the Desert==

''Magic Might: 18 (Terram) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int –2, Per –1, Pre –3, Com –1, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 (+1 in material form) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Jinni; Greater Immunity (heat), Ways of the Deserts; Berserk, Keen Vision, Second Sight, Wilderness Sense; Blatant Magical Air, Driven (to kill), Greater Malediction (bound by bargains), Magical Air*; Baneful Circumstances (in contact with iron) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities:''
''Greater Power x3, No Fatigue; Improved Attack x2, Improved Initiative x2, Improved Soak x2 Personality Traits: Angry +2, Vicious +3, Merciless +2; Bloodthirsty (Strength) +3* Combat: Clawing Wind: Init +8, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +6* * Includes Bloodthirsty Essential Trait earlier. The zawba’a may also cause additional damage with its Flay Power, later. Soak: +7 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (abuse), Athletics 2 (sprint), Awareness 2 (potential victims), Bargain 1 (magical bargains), Brawl 5 (clawing wind), Desert Lore''
''3 (trade routes), Folk Ken 1 (wizards), Hunt 3 (tracking), Penetration 3 (Corpus), Second Sight 4 (invisible things), Survival 3 (deserts), Theology: Islam 1 (Jinn), Wilderness Sense 3 (deserts) Powers: Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init +1, Terram: The zawba’a can assume material form (Size +1, as described later) to allow it to attack its opponents physically. (Greater Power; see Realms of Power: Magic, page 102) Flay, 0 points, Init +1, Corpus: As the zawba’a touches its opponent his skin is partially flayed from his body. The victim suffers a Heavy Wound. (R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind. Greater Power, 20 levels, –2 Might cost, +1 Initiative, remaining Mastery points used for Penetration Ability) Presence, 0 points, Constant, Imaginem: The zawba’a is aware of everything happening in the area that it haunts, which can be up to a Structure in size. (Greater Power; see Realms of Power: Magic, page 103) Vis: When the zawba’a is destroyed, it leaves behind a small whirling column of black sand that if collected yields 3 pawns of Terram vis and 1 pawn of Auram vis. Appearance: In corporeal form, the zawba’a appears as a column of sand whirling at high speed, within the heart of which chuckles a malicious, bloodthirsty face. It is about 8 ft tall.''
''The zawba’a is a bloodthirsty jinni of the Arabian deserts, which takes delight in slaying anyone unfortunate enough to stray across its path. It is, however, a rather single-minded creature and is unlikely to adopt any tactic beyond the frontal assault, making it relatively easy to outwit. Some experienced sahirs are able to bargain with zawba’a and bind them as servants using the khadim bond (see Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman). Such sahirs often use these desert jinn as a form of travel — the sight of a powerful sorcerer being carried across the landscape by a whirling sandstorm instead of a mundane mount strikes respect into even the most powerful of mundane rulers!''
''Story Seed: Death by Zawba’a?''
''The characters are called in to investigate a murder. The victim was found flayed to death in his chamber, which was covered in a fine layer of sand. Investigating, the characters uncover a plot by a shadowy cabal of sahirs from a minor Islamic sect who have learned to bind the zawba’a, deadly jinn whirlwinds, to their service. The sahirs use them as weapons against their political enemies, unleashing them on unsuspecting victims. Is this what happened here, and if so, who was responsible?''

|]
''the first round to leap or pull himself free before he sinks a significant distance, with a botch indicating that his arms are trapped in the following round. Thereafter it is up to his companions to help him escape its clutches, though if his arms are free he may assist in the second round, reducing any further Ease Factors that he may have to roll against by 3. Thereafter he has been pulled under and is not able to help. Characters also must be wary of brigands, who prey on caravans crossing the deserts. They are likely to avoid a caravan that is clearly well-guarded, but this depends on how desperate they are for goods to support themselves. Sandstorms may suffocate travelers or even strip the flesh from their bones. These may be natural, created by the magic of malevolent sorcerers or the manifestations of elemental jinn. The zawba’a, detailed in the nearby insert, is an example of a malicious jinn of whirling sand. Various other desert jinn and demons seek to harm unwary travelers. In some cases they may use powers that affect the mind or conjure illusions, presenting travelers with visions of lush, palm-filled oases where they may quench their thirsts. A character may only realize that she has been deceived when she takes her first long draught of water, only to find her mouth full of sand.''

==The Bedouin==

''Although the nomads of northern Arabia have nominally all converted to Sunni Islam, remnants of their pre-Islamic culture or code, known as muru’a, have survived. The importance of hospitality (diyafa), courage (hamasa), and honor (sharaf for men, ird for women) remain paramount and color aspects of even urban Arab society. Forgiveness, loyalty, and self-sacrifice are also integral concepts. The Bedouin tribes still revere the camel above all animals, according it''
''greater respect than even the magnificent Arabian horse or their prized falcons. Most Arabian sahirs belong to a Bedouin tribe and comparatively few dwell within cities or formal buyut, preferring to form alliances along tribal kinship and bloodlines. Due to the rich sources of vis in the area, the Bedouin wizards are heavily involved in magical trade with their urban sahir cousins, exchanging vis for rare books on the Solomonic Arts or even personal teaching. Bedouin characters may have Personality Traits or Personality Flaws that reflect these cultural legacies. The Minor Flaw Dutybound (Bedouin code) is all but universal among Bedouin characters and reflects a general obedience to these customs. Rare characters from the deep deserts may even have the Pagan Major Flaw. Many Faerie jinn mimic aspects of Bedouin culture, particularly the less powerful creatures referred to as jann. Most of the nomadic tribes have jinnblooded elders, are advised by wandering sahir viziers accompanied by powerful ‘afrit or marid servants, and count families of true Faerie jann among their blood kinsmen. Such jinn most often take the shapes of animals beloved of the tribes: camels, falcons, saluqi hounds, or the noble Arabian horses. The ancient Jurhumite tribe, former rulers of Mecca in pre-Islamic times, contains only dark Faerie jann-blooded members and still refuses to submit to Islam. Several other''

[|

==Saluqi==

''Although most dogs (kalb) are considered unclean by non-Maliki school Muslims, the noble breed known as the saluqi are prized by their masters, often sleeping in the tents of their Bedouin owners and being lauded in poetry after their passing. Prized both for their beauty and hunting skill, these greyhound-like dogs act as coursers, operating either in speedy packs or as bird dogs in tandem with falcons. Details on hunting with hounds are given in Lords of Men, Chapter 5: Leisure. Saluqi use the base statistics for''
''greyhounds listed in The Book of Mundane Beasts or Realms of Power: Magic, page 143, modified accordingly: add the following Qualities: Grapple, Imposing Appearance x2, Keen Eyesight and drop Keen Sense of Smell; add the Endurance Virtue and an additional Improved Characteristics Virtue; increase Presence to +1 and Stamina to +3; change to Hunt 4 (track by sight). Exceptional saluqi may have the Puissant Hunt Virtue and have powers similar to Faerie Hounds as detailed in Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 88–89.''

==Arabian Steeds==

''The Bedouin are known for their fine horses, but also use dromedary camels in war and trade. Their jinni cousins may ride more exotic mounts such as giant ostriches, leopards, or even stranger beasts. For a mundane Arabian racehorse, use the statistics for the Courser given in the Book of Mundane Beasts (see Realms of Power: Magic, or the Atlas Games website) and add the Imposing Appearance x2 Quality and the Great Quickness Minor Virtue, raising the beast’s Presence to +1 and Quickness to +3. Similar Arabian steeds bred for war or other roles can be created using the base Destrier or Charger as templates and adding the''
''aforementioned traits. For a single-humped dromedary camel, use the statistics for Bactrian camels (Chapter 9: On the Silk Road) with the following modifications: decrease Strength to +1 and Stamina to +3, and increase Dex to 0. Drop the Long-Winded Virtue and the Feral Scent Flaw. Drop the Hardy Quality and decrease Fatigue Levels by one. Reputation is Cranky +1 (much of Arabia). Change combat statistics to: Init 0, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage +2 and Soak +3. Change to Survival 3 (home terrain). Full statistics for dromedary camels are given in Magi of Hermes, pages 10–11.''

|]
''tribes from the ancient times are believed to live on in Bedouin memory as clans of Faerie jinn,such as the Jadis, the tribe of Tasm and the Thamudites Regardless of whether he is human or jinn, Muslim or pagan, a member of a Bedouin clan owes absolute loyalty to his clan first, his family second.''
''Bedouin Wizards''
''A disproportionately large number of Bedouin possess supernatural ability when compared to the town dwellers in the settled parts of Arabia. It has been noted that Bedouin sahirs are more often Gifted than their fellows in other areas of the Mythic Middle East. Such sahirs typically specialize in either Solomonic Storytelling or Solomonic Travel, although some Bedouin''
''sahirs disdain the more specific techniques and concentrate on summoning and bargaining with jinn exclusively. These sahirs are usually accompanied by their favorite falcon or saluqi, which is actually a Faerie jinn servant bound by a khadim bond (see Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman for further details on sahirs). All tribes include at least one sahir, often supported by female hedge magicians known as hakima (“wise women”) or kahina (“soothsayers”) that resemble Folk Witches aligned to the Faerie Realm, or male shai’ir, poets resembling the ancient artists of pre-Islamic times. The unGifted hedge witches typically lack the Cursing and Flight powers and have the Animal Healing and Entrancement Virtues instead. Details of Folk Witches can be found in Hedge Magic, pages 33–53, although some of the ideas for Faerie Doctors presented''
''in Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 117–118, may be equally appropriate. Details on Arabian poets are given in the sidebar on Arab Poetry later.''
''Brothers of the Tribe''
''Knowledge of muru’a is treated like a non-Hermetic Mystery Cult Organization Lore that can be learned like any other Ability. It is used to initiate various Faerie-aligned Supernatural Virtues of value to a desert nomad using the rules found in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, pages 8–20, with the tribe’s hakima acting as Mystagogue. The following Virtues can be initiated and are commonly possessed by exceptional Bedouin: Animal Ken, Art of Memory, Arcadian Travel, Cursing, Death Prophecy, Dowsing, Enchanting''

[|

==Pagan Deities of Arabia==

''Trees, especially the date-palm, windsculpted rocks and precious wells are treated with a respect that borders on the worshipful by the Bedouin — many of these sites are the abode of a supernatural spirit referred to as an ‘ashira (“close friend”). These creatures are appeased with gifts or respect and their homes are typically the location of auras or vis sources aligned to the various Elemental forms. Some of the more powerful ‘ashira are Magic jinn, genii loci manifestations of Arab deities worshiped in pre-Islamic Arabia, or else Infernal jinn that have usurped their place. The following represents a selection of such deities:''
''Abgal: Guardian god of Bedouin and camel drivers. Dhu’l-Khalasa: God of oracles and divination. Dhu Shara: God of mountains. Hubal: Senior deity associated with the moon and divination. Ishtar: Goddess of fertility, sexual love, and war. More commonly worshiped in ancient Mesopotamia. Manaf: A fertility deity worshiped by women, though women were not allowed to touch its idols during''
''their time of menstruation. Nakhla: Goddess of the date-palm tree. Al-Qawm: God of war and the night. Protector of caravans. Sa’d: Associated with steadfastness in battle. Wadd: Protector god. Yaghuth: Associated with victory in battle.''
''The nature of such old deities may vary and multiple entities bearing the same name can be found within miles of each other, but with widely different realm alignment and power. The benevolent version of Wadd venerated by a tribe from northern Najd may be an aloof Magic jinni, while the vengeful Infernal incarnation of the same deity feared by tribes in Uman may be a False God trying to subvert the nomads away from their faith. Others may be Faerie jinn woven out of the stories told by the Bedouin at their night fires about such fantastic natural locations. The weakest may be no more powerful than a minor elemental jinn with a Might score of less than 10, whereas the spirits of larger and more isolated landmarks may have Might scores approaching 50.''
''Story Seed: The Stone Lovers''
''A group of magi or sahirs wishing to settle a pair of uniquely shaped rock outcrops in a remote Magic aura inadvertently offend the local Bedouin tribe, who consider the stones ‘ashiras and thus part of their tribe. Their legends tell of two giants, Aja and Salma, banished lovers who dwelt for five hundred years at the site, slowly transforming into the vaguely human-shaped stone sentinels of today. The tribe fears that the wizards will awaken the spirits of the ossified giants or draw the attention of the dark Faerie and Infernal jinn that haunt the outcrops at night. To settle in the area or access vis from the site, the characters must not only deal with the representatives of the local tribe, but also the evil jinn that haunt it. Frequent magical activity may awaken the sleeping giants, who may not respond favorably to the interlopers depending on whether they are elementals, demons, pre-Islamic jinn or even cursed humans.''

|]
''Poetry (as Enchanting Music), Entrancement, Greater Immunity: Thirst, Puissant Arabic, Spiritual Pact, Ways of the Desert, and Wilderness Sense.''
''Initiation scripts vary from tribe to tribe, but typically involve Ordeals related to the central concepts of the Bedouin code and inflict Major or Minor Personality''
''Flaws that reflect these tenets: Generous, Higher Purpose, Overconfident, Oversensitive (to breaches of honor), Proud, Vow (always keep your word), or Weakness.''

[|

==Falconry in Arabia==

''Believed by some to have originated in Mesopotamia, the art of falconry, or al-Qanas, is widely practiced throughout Arabia, particularly by the Bedouin tribesmen. Unlike in Mythic Europe, the primary goal of hawking is to supplement the meager nomad diet, particularly in the winter months. An exceptional bird, particularly one of the better-suited females, is still considered a mark of status by tribal leaders. The main prey hunted are the houbara, the karwan (stone curlew), and the hare. The most commonly used bird is the saqr, similar to the gyrfalcon, but the peregrine falcon, known as the shahin, is sometimes preferred. The authority on falconry is an unnamed Arabic text by the falconer Moamyn, equivalent to a summa Level 4, Quality 7 on Animal Handling (falconry), but also containing the equivalent of a tractatus on Hunt (hawking), Quality 7. In the next decade it will be translated into Latin as the De Scientia Venandi per Aves by Master Theodore of Antioch at the court of King Frederick II, with a resultant Quality of only 6. By 1250, the work will have been corrected and glossed by the Stupor Mundi himself, resulting in the superior work known as De arte venandi cum avibus (Quality 8) which becomes widely copied. See Lords of Men, Chapter 5: Leisure, for further details on hawking and Realms of Power: Magic, page 86, for training animals using magic.''
''Saqr''
''Similar to its European cousin the gyrfalcon, detailed in The Book of Mundane Beasts, Realms of Power, page 142, or Lords of Men, page 59, the bird most commonly used by Arabian falconers is the saqr. Known for its endurance rather than its speed, the saqr has the following modifi''
''cations: add the Tireless Quality and the Long-Winded Virtue. Exceptional saqr, especially prized by the nomad sheikhs, possess the Puissant Hunt Virtue and the Imposing Appearance x2 Quality.''
''Shahin''
''These smaller hawks are equivalent to the peregrine falcons of Europe. These Size –4 raptors are the fastest falcons but have much less endurance. They excel in catching smaller birds on the wing, but are less suited for desert hawking. Increase the basic falcon’s Quickness by 1 but subtract 2 from Strength, change to Ambush Predator, add Stealth 3 (ambush prey), decrease to Flight 3 (climbing flight) and modify their combat statistics accordingly.''
''Anqa''
''The Arabian phoenix, or anqa, is very similar to the rukh detailed in Chapter 9: On the Silk Road — its coloration consists of bright red, orange and gold. Like an Eagle of Virtue, as the anqa ages its feathers grow dim and it flies to its aerie above the Mountains of Qaf. There, immolating itself in flame, it is reborn as a single black egg. Hermetic magi observing this process over a season can treat the experience as a significatos, gaining experience in the Arts of Animal, Ignem, or Vim.''
''Story Seed: The Seven Falcons of Lukman''
''Legend tells of the longevity of Lukman. One day, the son of ‘Ad heard a voice calling to him and discovered a nest with two falcon fledglings. Choosing the stronger, he brought it up as his''
''boon companion. The falcon lived for a full 80 years and the falconer aged not a day. When it died, he returned to the nest to discover another fledgling, which lived another 80 years. Once again, Lukman retained his youth. He repeated this another five times, growing sadder with the passing of each successive hawk. The seventh falcon he named Lubad, “the accumulation of all times,” and when it passed, the weight of five centuries crashed down on Lukman and he finally died. The nest lies within a Magic regio, accessible only after an arduous climb in western Arabia. Each fledgling, if raised and trained as a companion, grants its trainer immunity from all Aging rolls for a fixed duration of 80 years. Each year, the owner gains a single Warping Point. The falcon’s boon is incompatible with standard Hermetic Longevity Rituals or similar magic. Once the falcon dies, the owner suffers from the Age Quickly Flaw until he raises the next hatchling. Unlike a normally fragile hawk, the bird does not need to make Aging rolls until it reaches 80 years old at which point it suddenly dies without a roll. The bird has a Magic Might of 8 and the Unaffected by The Gift Minor Virtue. It can be slain or die by other mundane means. The tale of Lukman reaches the characters and they may wish to gain the secrets for themselves or to see if the bird’s power may provide insight into a potential Longevity Ritual Breakthrough. Unfortunately, the current falcon has been trained by a Bedouin sheikh who is unaware of his magnificent hawk’s value. The wizards may try to slay the immortal hawk and then follow its aggrieved owner to the secret location of the nest, but risk the ire of the tribe’s sahirs and their jinn allies. Even if they defeat or compensate the sheikh, will the bird accept a foreigner ignorant of the Bedouin code of honor?''

|]
''Story Flaws such as Close Family Ties, Dependent, Enemies, Feud, Pagan, and Oath of Fealty may also be appropriate for Bedouin characters. European characters who seek to gain such Virtues may seek out the Bedouin and petition for membership of a tribe. Foreigners that demonstrate values admired by the Bedouin may be invited into the clan and eligible to undergo such ceremonies, forging a blood kinship with a nomad tribe and gaining both Dutybound (Bedouin code) and the Close Family Ties (adopted Bedouin clan) Flaw. To the Bedouin and their jinn allies, this bond of clanship (‘asabiyya) supersedes all other loyalties. This may create difficulties for Hermetic magi when their adopted clan’s interests do not align with those of their covenant or the Order of Hermes as a whole and they are forced to sacrifice either the Code or relations with their new kin. The Quaesitors may come looking for the transgressor, only to come face to face with a fully armed tribe of jinn-blooded Bedouin backing up the renegade, or that same tribe may turn up at a covenant, looking for vengeance.''

==The Najd and Yamama==

''The Najd and Yamama regions take the form of a high plateau that slopes down from the west to the east. Yamama is covered with a plethora of oases, making it home to a large number of settlements where the main form of subsistence is agriculture. The Najd is more mountainous and rockier, so settlements tend to be found in the valleys where the inhabitants make use of run-off rainwater. The majority of the population of the region is nomadic Bedouin, though the populations of some of the urban centers are quite large. Two ancient tribes of Faerie jinn — the Jadis and the Tasm — still wander through this area and are known for their unusual wares, unimpeachable honor, and offering the most marvelous hospitality.''

[|

==Kohl==

''Various myths tell of the origin of kohl, the black or blue powder, made from frankincense and other spices, used by women all over the Mythic Middle East as eye makeup. Many attribute its origin to the jinn, as the powder can be readily purchased from the stalls of the hidden race within the bazaars of Golden Baghdad, although the price is seldom in money. In Yamama, they tell a legend about a blueeyed witch named Zarqa al-Yamama who was blessed with vision so keen she could see a man approaching thirty miles in the distance. In ancient times when the country was still called Tasma and Jadis, she was killed by an invading Yemenite king who ordered his physicians to examine her eyes to discover the secret of her magical vision. Her eyes were found stained and smudged with kohl.''
''The most common magical kohl in Arabia is equivalent to a potion created by Bedouin folk witches, and confers the Minor Virtue Second Sight on a character for Sun duration when applied. Other formulations of kohl have been noted to confer differing Virtues related to enhanced sight: Keen Vision, Magic Sensitivity, Piercing Gaze, and Wilderness Sense. Ability scores granted by magical kohl have a typical score of 2 or 3, equal to the folk witch’s Brew Potency/5 (round up) as detailed in Hedge Magic, pages 41–42. Sahiras or Hermetic magi may use such substances for their enchantments. Kohl powder has a Shape and Material bonus of +3 to affect vision. Its main component is ground from charred resin, usually frankincense obtained from southern Arabia (see later).''

|]

==The Cradle & The Crescent Tayma’ and Khaybar==

''Tayma’, Khaybar, and the surrounding towns have traditionally been havens for Jews, and in 1220, they are independent settlements owing allegiance to no sultan. The Jews make up the majority of the inhabitants of the area, and are known for being fierce and clever fighters. They continue to ensure that their children learn the arts of war from an early age, and they keep their skills sharp with periodic forays, made in alliance''
''with some of the Muslim Bedouin tribes of the area, against other settlements of the Arabian Peninsula.''

==Bahrayn==

''The region of Bahrayn, consisting of both the eastern coastal territories of Arabia and islands off the east coast, has had a checkered past. Perhaps its most notorious rulers were an Isma’ili (is-ma-’EE-lee)''
''Shi’i group known as the Qarmatians (qar-MAW-tee-anz), who reigned in the region from 899 to 1076. In 930 the Qarmatians sacked the holy cities of Mecca and Medina, stealing the Black Stone from the Ka’ba. It was returned under mysterious circumstances in 951, left wrapped in a sack in the major mosque in Kufa with a note saying, “By command we took it, and by command we have brought it back.” The Fatimids (FAW-ti-midz), an Isma’ili Shi’i dynasty who ruled in North Africa at the time, are generally credited with having persuaded the Qarmatians to''

[|

==Story Seeds for the Najd and Yamama, Bahrayn, and the Empty Quarter==

''The Jews of Tayma’ and Khaybar''
''Fierce and cunning fighters, the Jews of Tayma’ and Khaybar are able rapidly to muster armies at times of need. Anyone who could harness their strength would hence be able to assemble a formidable fighting force at very short notice. They could therefore be useful allies if the characters suddenly find themselves facing an enemy army (such as the classic necromancer with his undead horde). However, traditional Judaism takes a dim view of magic and its practitioners, so the characters may have to go to considerable lengths to convince the Jewish elders of the region that their cause is just.''
''The Fate of the Black Stone''
''What did happen to the Black Stone during its sojourn in Bahrayn? Why was it broken? The characters find information (perhaps revealed by a Qarmatian) indicating that during its absence the stone was stolen from the Qarmatians by a renegade sahirs who wished to use it to power a ritual of unknown nature. Eventually, at considerable cost in lives, the Qarmatians were able to slay the sorcerer and recover the stone, but by the time that they did, it had been broken into seven pieces. Now the supposedly dead sorcerer has been seen abroad once more, and the descendants of the survi''
''vors of the original battle against him are gradually being murdered. The characters may be asked to protect one of the descendants, to hunt down the sorcerer, or to discover the purpose of the ritual.''
''The Ghosts of Hajar''
''A mother in Hajar misplaces her child, who becomes lost outside at night in the city. The local community of sahirs suspect the ghosts are responsible but, being unable to control the spirits of the dead, directly seek outside assistance. Can the characters find the child before the ghostly soldiers do? This story could also become the basis for a longer saga arc involving laying the ghosts to rest and freeing Hajar and the surrounding regions from their curse.''
''The Valuable Quarter''
''Due to the ease in which travelers can seemingly enter the Twilight Void and the Magic Realm, this area is sometimes known as Rub’ al-Ghali, the Valuable Quarter, among local sahirs and the few Hermetic magi who have learned of its existence. Potentially vast resources of vis and magic from the Magic Realm are within the grasp of even the most inexperienced wizard, but unfortunately for the hopeful, returning to the mundane world does not appear to be''
''as easy as leaving. Would-be explorers would be advised to secure some sure means of return or risk becoming lost in the eerie landscape for many lifetimes, perhaps even forever. Those who return often come back irrevocably changed and Warped — instances of mundane characters returning initiated into Sihr and one or more of the Solomonic Arts are not unheard of, but these unconventionally initiated sahirs are never fully trusted by their fellows. Criamon magi speculate that the Empty Quarter may contain a means to pass between this world and the Counter-Cyclical Alam. Merinita contend instead that the provinces of the Empty Quarter encircle a hidden entrance to Arcadia where reflections of the ancient deities of Arabia lie trapped — whether by God, Iblis, or some Magic entity. Perhaps both or neither are correct, but the joint sponsorship of a Hermetic expedition to investigate the Empty Quarter has recently been agreed on and the two Primi are looking for young magi willing to investigate the rival claims. Some sahirs speculate that al-Hajjar and al-Zill, two of the early contributors to Solomonic Magic, may have disappeared into myth in this manner, and will one day return from their extensive wanderings like King Baluqiya of old, confirming the speculations of Islamic theology on magical kingdoms beyond the known world.''

|]
''return the stone, but no-one knows for sure. Whatever the truth of this, the Black Stone was broken into seven pieces as a result of its travails, and it is now held together with a silver band. The Qarmatians’ reign ended when they were ousted by the Sunni Arab Uyunid dynasty, who rule the region in 1220, but some Qarmatians still live in the area.''

==Hajar==

''Hajar is the most important city in Bahrayn, being its major port and a link between Bahrayn and the coast of Persia on the opposite side of the gulf. However, its inhabitants do not go outside at night, for it bears the marks of a past trauma. In 350 the Persian emperor Shapur II (r. 309– 379) ordered his forces to attack the Arab tribes on both sides of the gulf, slaughtering, plundering, and abducting thousands of people in Hajar, the surrounding area, and the Persian coast opposite. Now these regions are haunted by the ghosts of the dead, who come out at night and beseech anyone they meet to help them against their persecutors, at least until they are slain by weapons wielded by invisible soldiers. It is said that these weapons can slay the living too, so the local people remain indoors after dark, stopping their ears against the screams and the sounds of desperate hands pounding on their doors.''

==The Empty Quarter==

''Rub’ al Khali, the Empty Quarter, is the particularly inhospitable tract of desert that forms the border between northern and southern Arabia. No caravan tracks have crossed it since the fall of the kingdom of ‘Ad in the third century and the loss of its trade in frankincense from the south — even the Bedouins skirt around its fringes. Several miles beyond the settlements in the periphery of the''
''region, the dunes climb to great heights and the traveler enters the domain of al-Khali (“the Empty One”), a powerful elemental jinn said to stand guard over the lost lands of the al-Jahiliyya, the pre-Islamic times. This vast trackless expanse forms one of the largest and strongest Magic auras in the Mythic Middle East. Beyond the thousand foot tall dunes that mark its periphery, the aura strength rapidly increases to 10 and the mundane terrain breaks down into an ever-shifting landscape of brightness. Multiple regiones of bright featureless sand lie within its boundary, providing subtle traps for the unwary. Such pockets of space may only be entered involuntarily, but can be accessed with astonishing ease — add 6 to the roll for entering a regio described in ArM5, page 189. Unfortunately, leaving the regiones is not as easy — there is a –3 penalty when trying to leave, making escape difficult for those without Second Sight, Magic Sensitivity, or other supernatural abilities. Some travelers even find themselves directly transported into the mystical space of the Twilight Void, seemingly without passing through a detectable regio. By passing through this soft place, they find themselves adrift in the ageless space, most commonly just outside the boundary of one of the provinces of Auram, Imaginem, or Terram. Some explorers describe encountering vestiges of ancient cities or migrating nomad tribes, or have reported passing through provinces aligned to other Forms. Details on the Magic Realm and Twilight Void are given in Realms of Power: Magic, pages 24–26. The ready access to the Magic realm appears to be the result of some lingering effect of an ancient magical disaster and a ritual level power of the genius loci al-Khalil, while the featureless mundane landscape appears to magically resonate with the emptiness of the Void.''

==The Hijaz==

''The Hijaz is the religious heartland of Islam, being home to the two holy cities of Mecca and Medina. As a result, it receives''
''much more traffic than the rest of Arabia, particularly in the form of pilgrims. In addition, its position on the Red Sea makes it an important way station for maritime trade between the Mediterranean Sea and the Indian Ocean, and its coasts are dotted with harbors that provide shelter for ships traveling to and from Egypt, the main link between the two. Sahir communities are notably few or found only far from the main cities — the density of Divine auras and regiones makes magic difficult and, even without The Gift, wizards of all types prefer to keep a very low profile to avoid provoking elements of the religious authorities. The roads to Mecca and Medina are choked with Infernal jinn, seeking to corrupt souls by encouraging impious thoughts and sowing doubt in the minds of pilgrims.''

==Non-Muslims and the Holy Cities==

''Non-Muslims are not permitted to come within the harams ((HA-ramz); sing. haram) of the cities of Mecca and Medina, sacred areas extending about five miles out of each of the cities. This may, however, be problematic when designing stories involving the two holy cities, unless the entire party consists of Muslim characters. You may wish to adopt one of the following approaches:''
''• The characters may seek to visit the''
''holy cities without being discovered. Magic will certainly help in this regard, though once the characters are within the cities they are likely to have difficulty casting spells due to the high Dominion auras there. Mundane disguises may actually be a better option, though the characters will need to be at least slightly skilled to avoid discovery. Needless to say, doing this is a grave act of sacrilege, and characters caught trying to sneak into the cities in this way will face severe penalties. • You may wish to have a smaller group,''
''consisting of only Muslim characters, visit the city, with the other members of the troupe taking on the roles of''
''other Muslims whom the characters meet along the way. • Alternatively, maybe a special arrangement can be made if the characters are able to prove their need to visit the cities. Maybe they may visit as long as they are accompanied by representatives of the local authorities, or maybe the holy sites are still off-limits to the non-Muslim characters, but they may visit the other parts of the cities freely. • A more radical, but probably the''
''easiest, solution is to assume that non-Muslims are allowed to visit the Mythic versions of the holy cities, with no further complications or restrictions involved.''
''Whatever approach you take, a visit to the holy cities, for a Muslim or a non-Muslim, should be an intensely religious experience. These are, after all, cities where God intervened directly and frequently in human affairs, and such concentrated divine attention has left a legacy of holiness that affects all who visit. As one result''
''of this, the harams bear Dominion auras of 3, and the Dominion auras in the cities themselves are usually 4 and often even higher. Fighting and the taking of life (except slaughtering animals for food or destruction of savage or diseased animals) is forbidden in the haram areas of the two holy cities. Unless otherwise noted, all Muslim Dominion auras within these areas bear a Calm Temper Trait at a score of +3 (see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 38-39). Transgressors may be struck down with a visible manifestation of God’s ire, even for minor infringements — reports of impious travelers provoking instances of the Curses Ignis Domini, Smiting of the Lord , or Swallowed Alive and Sent to Hell are wellknown, albeit rare (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 89).''

==Medina==

''Medina, Madinat al-Nabi ((ma-DEEnat un-NA-bee), “the City of the Proph''
''et”), is the second holy city of Islam and is situated on a flat plain cradled between several mountains and ancient lava flows, the junction of a number of valleys and passes through the mountains. The soil is unusually fertile, and a variety of fruits and cereals are grown here. The city is surrounded by strong walls with watchtowers built by the sultan of Syria, Nur al-Din (r. 1146–1174), in 1162. The governor currently owes allegiance to the sultan of Egypt, although the city is largely left to run its own affairs. The city has traditionally been home to a large number of religious scholars; the famous jurist Malik ibn Anas (d. 795), who founded the major Sunni school of law that became known as the school of the Malikis ((MEH-li-keez), “the followers of Malik”), is one of those who lived and worked here. Dominion auras in Medina are one point higher than they would be elsewhere, and the city is the site of numerous mosques, shrines, and other historical sites.''

==The Cradle & The Crescent Mecca==

''The holy city of Mecca lies in a valley between several mountains, sheltered from the winds and heat of the wilderness. The city contains both urban dwellings and a multitude of shrines, convents, religious colleges, and especially mosques, of which there are 100. At its center lies the greatest of these, the Haram Mosque, within which is the Ka’ba. As indicated earlier, the Arabic term haram indicates the inviolable sacred areas surrounding''
''and including Mecca and Medina (see Non-Muslims and the Holy Cities, earlier), but it is also used to indicate the Haram Mosque specifically. The divine influence on Mecca is clear: the climate is supernaturally mild, vegetation grows lush but never wild, and a sense of peace pervades the streets. As in Medina, all Dominion auras in the city are one point higher than they would be normally. Mecca is always densely populated. In addition to the townsfolk who serve the city’s needs, many religious scholars live and work in the Haram Mosque and the''
''other religious buildings here. In addition, the city sees constant traffic as pilgrims arrive, stay for periods ranging from a couple of weeks to a few years, then move on again. The majority of the people who live in Mecca are Sunnis, but there are also a large number of Zaydi (ZAY-dee) Shi’is here. Pilgrims come from almost all Muslim denominations. The city is ruled by a governor known as the Grand Sharif (sha-REEF), a descendent of the Prophet through his grandson al-Hasan and a member of the Hawashim clan; the current Grand Sharif is Qatada''

[|

==Story Seeds for the Holy Cities==

''The Lava Flows of Medina''
''The lava flows around Medina cooled and hardened centuries ago, but occasional earthquakes open cracks in them, allowing fresh lava to flow out. The characters learn that the earthquakes are not a natural phenomenon, but are instead the results of experiments by forces hostile to Medina who is attempting to reliquify the lava flows all around the city. Will they be able to stop them before they achieve this and drown the holy city in molten lava?''
''The Lost Lords of Mecca''
''The Jurhumites are an ancient tribe of jann-blooded Bedouin who once ruled Mecca and areas of the Hijaz. They rejected Islam and appeared to be defeated by the early armies but now live on within old tales about the pre-Islamic tribes of Arabia. The whole tribe now consists of Faerie jann, although a few jinn-blooded sahirs are secretly considered adopted members of their clan. They are best represented as dark Faerie Jinn and play roles in stories about crises of faith or dishonor and tend to have more elemental magic (specifically Auram and Terram powers) at their disposal than their usual Faerie cousins (see Chapter 4: The Jinn). As former inhabitants of Mecca, Jurhumites are potential guides for non-Muslims attempting to infiltrate the holy cit''
''ies for subterfuge or war, being privy to secret ways into the closed areas. The Jurhumite sahir might seek out Hermetic magi to aid them in their feud against the current regime. Are the Jurhumites behind the change in the lava flows around Medina, or are they merely being used as scapegoats by a opportunistic group of renegade sahir?''
''The Restoring Waters of Zamzam''
''On the night after the end of Ramadan, the Divine aura in the Well of Zamzam at Meca’s Haram mosque dips slightly and the water in the well can be harvested by moonlight as an unusual form of Extraordinary Aquam Vis. Each mouthful of water is able to restore all of a character’s lost Fatigue Levels through an unknown ritual level non-Hermetic effect. Hermetic magi may be tempted to obtain such a remarkable substance, whether for personal use or as a potential source of Insight into overcoming the Hermetic Limit of Energy.''
''The Marid of the Well''
''Unknown to most of the pilgrims, the eponymous Zamzam — an ancient Magic marid — lies trapped in a suppressed Magic regio at the base of the Well of Zamzam at Mecca’s Haram mosque, its powers overcome by the overwhelming''
''Divine aura. The spirit’s remaining magical power preserves the well’s amazingly pure water but it has come to resent its imprisonment by the Dominion. Ancient beyond belief, the Zamzam marid may also have knowledge of the past useful to the characters that cannot be gained from any other source, but how can one discreetly communicate with such an entity within the most holy shrine of Islam? If freed, what would its actions be and how would the Muslim authorities react to such desecration of the ancient spring?''
''The Mosque of the Jinn''
''A magus of House Merinita hires the characters to conduct an investigation into the Mosque of the Jinn at Mecca, demanding that they provide an extensive report on its denizens and visitors in the hope of understanding how and why such Faerie creatures seemingly ape the worship of the Dominion without producing a Divine aura. The normally hospitable Jinn become considerably less enthusiastic when it becomes apparent that the characters are there to observe, rather than take part in Muslim worship, since it is from human participation in the latter that the jinn derive vitality. Many of the jinn object to being treated like lab specimens. How can the characters resolve this situation without upsetting either their hosts or their employer?''

|]
''(r. 1201–1220). If your saga follows history, in 1220, Qatada, along with many other members of his family, is killed when his son al-Hasan carries out a massacre to ensure his succession. However, the Ayyubid sultan of Yemen, al-Mas’ud Yusuf, steps in to quell the chaos and imposes military rule. The Grand Sharifs only regain control after the sultan’s death in 1229.''
''The Haram Mosque and the Ka’ba''
''The Haram Mosque is the most sacred of mosques, the building that holds the Ka’ba, the shrine built by Adam under the guidance of angels, and subsequently rebuilt by Abraham and his son Ishmael. It takes the form of a rectangular courtyard, around which are highly-decorated open halls supported by multiple rows of columns. Off the northwest hall is the Dar al-Nadwa (DAHR un-NAD-wa), a building constructed around a second hall, where consultation is carried out between religious scholars and the Grand Sharif. Off the southwest hall is a building used by scholars of the Maliki legal school. The mosque has twenty gates and seven minarets. The Dominion aura here is overwhelming, with a score of 10. Muslim characters may invoke baraka here to request any of the Saint Powers listed in Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 88–89; if required, the site counts as having Divine Might of 100. The Ka’ba itself takes the form of a cuboid shrine, about 40 feet on each side and 46 feet tall. Although it is richly decorated, the upper parts of the walls''
''are generally kept mostly covered with a green drapery known as the kiswa (KISwa). Implanted into the wall at the eastern corner, about five feet from the ground, is the Black Stone, said to have been cast from Heaven to show Adam and Eve where to build the Ka’ba. According to tradition, the stone was originally white but turned black as it absorbed sins over the centuries. Muslim pilgrims attempt to touch or kiss the stone to gain forgiveness for their sins. The Ka’ba may be entered through a door on the northeast wall, which is about seven feet above ground level and reached by a wheeled set of wooden steps that is pushed up to the door when it is opened. The inside is richly decorated with slabs of marble of many colors, and normally one finds within three columns that support the roof, a staircase leading to the roof, and a variety of Muslim artifacts and relics, including several ancient and valuable copies of the Qur’an and documents on the walls that record the activities of those who renovated the Ka’ba. The exception is on days when the Ka’ba is opened to the public, which is most Mondays and Fridays, for on those days pious Muslims who enter the Ka’ba find themselves in a terrestrial divine regio, still at aura level 10, which represents an even more richly decorated version of the Ka’ba and has the distinctive feature of being able to accommodate more people than could normally fit inside the building. Muslims in the Ka’ba usually seek to pray at the place where the Prophet used to pray, about five feet from the southwest wall, and at such times, miraculously, they may all pray in the same place without''
''crowding each other. Whether the regio is accessible or not, Muslims may seek to invoke baraka from Muhammad both inside and just outside the Ka’ba. Within the courtyard of the Haram mosque also lies the marble domed Well of Zamzam, about 20 yards east of the Ka’ba. Revealed to Ibrahim’s wife Hajar when she was searching for water for her thirsty son Ishmael, the well is older than the first buildings of Mecca. The waters are clean and pure but although they are drunk by many Muslim pilgrims as part of their devotion, they do not usually have any supernatural properties.''
''Al-Ma’la Cemetery and the Mosque of the Jinn''
''Say (O Muhammad): It is revealed unto me that a company of the Jinn gave ear, and they said: Lo! We have heard a marvelous Qur’an, Which guideth unto righteousness, so we believe in it and we ascribe no partner unto our Lord. And (we believe) that He exalted be the glory of our Lord hath taken neither wife nor son, And that the foolish one among us used to speak concerning Allah an atrocious lie.''
''— The Qur’an 72: 1-4''
''On the northern edge of Mecca is the cemetery of al-Ma’la, where many of the Prophet’s family members and followers are buried, including Amina, his mother; Khadija, his first wife; and ‘Abd al-Muttalib, his grandfather. Near the cemetery is a mosque known as the Mosque of the Jinn, where a group of jinn heard the Prophet reciting the Qur’an and were thereby persuaded to convert to Islam. The mosque has since become the apparent center of jinn worship of God, and they continue to gather publicly at this place, so that at prayer times, and especially at the Friday noon prayer, it bustles with Faerie jinn of all manner of shapes and sizes. Even the mosque officials are undisguised jinn. Unspoken convention requires that all jinn attending prayers avoid assuming forms that are too monstrous or so large as''

[|

==The Hajj==

''The hajj is one of the five “Pillars of Islam,” five practices that mark someone as being a Muslim. All Muslims are obliged to perform the hajj at least once during their lifetime, if at all possible. For most who undertake it, it is a life-changing event, often leading them to abandon inappropriate practices and make a new start in life.''
''Details of the hajj are presented in Realms of Power: The Divine, page 108. A Muslim who has completed the hajj gains a Personality Trait of Pious +3. The Muslim also gains 3 Faith Points. It is possible to undertake the hajj again to regain the Personality Trait and Faith Points, but repeated performance of the hajj will never raise the Personality Trait above +3.''

|]
''to take up too much space in the mosque. A few humans also attend prayers at the mosque, interacting freely with its supernatural inhabitants. Respectful mortals, including sahirs and other wizards, are always welcomed, if sometimes a bit overenthusiastically. The mosque has a Faerie Aura of 4 which rises to 5 when the jinn are attending prayers.''

==Ta’if==

''About 60 miles to the southeast of Mecca, built on the mountain slopes, lies the town of Ta’if. Before the rise of Islam, Ta’if was the site of a major idol to the Arabian goddess al-Lat, goddess of fertility and patron of shepherds and caravan travelers, but after the Muslim conquest of the city in 631 this idol was destroyed. Ta’if is well-known for its orchards, and it supplies fruit to many other towns of the region, including Mecca.''
''The Cult of the Daughters of Allah''
''Al-Lat was one of three major goddesses worshiped in the local area, the other two being al-Manat, goddess of fortune and destiny, whose cult was based at a place called al-Qudayd, at an unknown location about ten miles from Medina, and al-’Uzza, goddess of strength and the planet Venus, who was worshiped at a sanctuary on the outskirts of Mecca. These three goddesses were known as the “Daughters of Allah.” Even before the rise of Islam, Allah was worshiped by the pagans as a supreme creator god, and these Daughters are connected with a story known as that of the “Satanic Verses,” which by 1220 has been circulating for centuries among Muslim scholars. According to this story, at one point during the Prophet’s lifetime, the Qur’anic revelation allegedly was somehow adulterated by Iblis, who managed to achieve the temporary insertion into the text of''
''verses that permitted the Muslims to ask the Daughters of Allah to intercede with Him on their behalf. According to the story, this was immediately corrected by God, who revealed to His Prophet verses that rejected such a role for the goddesses. Whether this incident actually happened remains a matter of debate among Muslim scholars of the 13th century. In Mythic Arabia, Ta’if is home to the Cult of the Daughters of Allah, a family-based cult that has secretly kept the worship of the Daughters of Allah alive throughout the centuries. At any given point in time, there are three members of the family, each of whom can channel the power of one of the three deities. The family’s ultimate objective is to restore the worship of the Daughters of Allah, but first they need to find the sanctuaries of all three goddesses; they have found the sanctuaries of al-Lat and al-’Uzza, and now they are in the process of seeking out al-Qudayd and the lost sanctuary of al-Manat. The current family consists of a''
''man named ‘Abd al-Qadir, his son Yusuf, and Yusuf’s wife Farida. Depending on how you wish to depict the cult in your saga, you may choose to generate the members of the cult using the rules for Spirit Votaries (Realms of Power: Magic, pages 88–89); alternatively, it may be that the cult is infernally corrupted, in which case the rules for Diabolists may be more suitable (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 101–113). ‘Abd al-Qadir, as the representative of al-Lat, has powers over fertility and travel, including the ability to control the growth of humans, animals and plants, and travel supernaturally swiftly from one place to the next. Yusuf, as the representative of alManat, can affect probabilities, affecting players’ die rolls, and Farida, as the representative of al-’Uzza, is supernaturally strong and also has powers over Venus’ traditional realms of beauty, romance, the performing arts and communication.''

==‘Asir & Yemen==

''To the south of the Hijaz lie the provinces of ‘Asir and Yemen, controlled by the Ayyubid sultan of Yemen. The majority of the population are either Sunnis or Zaydi Shi’is, although in Yemen there are also scattered communities of Tayyibis (TOYyi-beez), an offshoot of the Isma’ili Shi’i Fatimids who maintain the belief in a hidden dynasty of imams. The Tayyibis are heavily involved in trade and have regular contact with the island of Soqotra to the south, home to a strange culture of nonHermetic sorcerers (See Rival Magic, pages 110–141, for more details on Soqotran Sorcerers). As a result of their seafaring, the Yemenites are even beginning to expand into the old Ethiopian lands in Africa and across the Arabian Sea into al-Sind.''

==Sana’a==

''Located in the highlands of Yemen, where the air is fresh and the temperature cool, the city of Sana’a is the administrative center of the Yemen-’Asir region, home to''

[|

==Arab Poetry==

''Poetry has an important place in Bedouin culture, the earliest examples dating from before the rise of Islam. Thepoet (shai’ir ; not to be confused with sahir) and the reciter (rawi) hold a position combining elements of historian, soothsayer, and panegyrist. Verses in praise of the tribe or sheikh, known as qit’ah, and scathing attacks on the virtue of other tribes, referred to as hija’, form the bulk of the works transmitted through oral tradition. Zajal, mock battles in verse, remain popular as a way of resolving hostilities between Bedouin sahirs. This is mechanically an opposed roll of Communication + Solomonic Storytelling for sahirs, or Communication and Folk Ken for battles between mundanes, but characters with an Arabic score of 6 or greater gain a +2 to their total. Poetry and storytelling remain an integral part of Arab life in the 13th century and it is thought that exceptional performances may produce wondrous effects. The Art of Memory, valued by Islamic scholars for reciting the Qur’an, is believed to have originated among the pagan poets. Enchanting Poetry and Entrancement are common among Bedouin poets, even among non-wizards, and the former is the most commonly initiated Major Supernatural Virtue gained through devotion to muru’a. A fabled example is the irascible satirist, Abu Nuwas, a poet sponsored at the legendary court of Harun al-Raschid, who passed into the myth and legend of Golden Baghdad as a Faerie creature of Elysium, living within the tales of The Thousand and One Nights.''
''Story Seed: Poets and Qareen''
''‘Abqari, contemporary poets blessed with an artistic qareen, can be created using the rules for Legendary Artists or Maestro Mythic Companions (see Art & Academe, pages 133–135). The qareen of such characters are best reflected''
''by the Faerie Friend, Magical (Being) Companion, or Impious Friend Minor Flaws, depending on the Realm affiliation of the artist. Many ‘abqari possess Enchanting Poetry and the Muse Minor Supernatural Virtues (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 56). Some of these poets are granted such power over words that they may mimic the Folk Witch power of Cursing or the Gruagach Arts of Give, Blessing, and Curse, reflecting their ability to lampoon and satirize opponents into misfortune through their verse (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition for details of these non-Hermetic powers). Journeying to ‘Aqbar may compose part of an Initiation Script for a member of the Merinita “Keepers of Tales” Mystery Cult, or be of interest to Jerbiton magi or artistic Redcaps passionate about the stories and legends of The Thousand and One Nights.''
''Story Seed: The Poetry Festival at ‘Ukaz''
''Once a year the small oasis town of ‘Ukaz, situated halfway between Mecca and Medina, holds a poetry competition, a tradition dating back to ancient times. The seven great poems known as the Mu’allaqat (“the Suspended Odes”) that now grace the walls of the Ka’ba had their origin in this fair. Today, the winner’s prize varies from year to year as the sponsorship of the fair passes from one tribe of jinn to another. The prize is always something of great value — one year, the jinn may reward a winner with the secret path to ‘Abqar, another year they may bestow kinship with their tribe for eternity, and yet another they may offer the service of one of their younger jinn as an unconditional servant. Depending on the prize, magi and sahirs may be drawn to the festival, hoping to gain something otherwise impossible to acquire — something vital to their plans. Competition is always fierce, but the poetry is always breathtakingly beautiful.''

|]
''the Ayyubid sultan al-Mas’ud Yusuf. It is renowned for its market, the Suq al-Milh (Salt Market), where all sorts of oddities may be found by the persistent, and for the quality of its food.''

==The Valley of ‘Abqar==

''In Al-Jahiliyya, the pre-Islamic times, jinn were said to dwell in the Valley of ‘Abqar and inspire the greatest of the old Arabian bards and poets, acting as their Supernatural Muses. The valley may be a faerie regio accessed from both Yemen or southern Jordan, a city or town within Arcadia, or perhaps all of these simultaneously.''

==Ma’rib==

''To the east of Sana’a lie the remains of Ma’rib, the ancient capital of Balqis (or Bilqis), the Queen of Sheba. It was once ruled by mukkaribs, hereditary priest-kings''

[|

==Story Seed: Farida’s Fears==

''The cult of the Daughters of Allah discovers the location of the sanctuary of al-Manat and begins a tripartite ritual that is intended to bring about apocalyptic results, possibly restoring the goddesses to the mortal realm, or damaging or destroying the Ka’ba at Mecca. The player characters get wind of this and must take action to stop them. Farida, as the newest member of the family, has qualms about her involvement in the cult. Perhaps she feels''
''strongly connected to her Muslim upbringing, which is leading her to have second thoughts. Maybe she is being asked to engage in practices that she finds conflict with her own morals. More sinisterly, perhaps she is pregnant, and she has been told by her father-inlaw that she will be giving birth to her replacement, making her concerned for her future in a family that is normally limited to only three members. Will the characters be able to help her?''

==Suleiman and the Queen of Sheba==

''Suleiman heard from the hoopoe (a brightly-colored bird fond of traveling widely) of the Queen of Sheba’s kingdom, a land where the people worshiped the sun alongside God, and so he decided to invite Balqis to discuss her faith with him. She accepted his invitation and prepared riddles and difficult questions with which to test him. Then she set out to Jerusalem in a caravan laden with gold, spices, and precious jewels. Suleiman, in the meantime, asked his court if anyone could bring the queen’s throne before she arrived. A jinni boasted that it could obtain it before Suleiman rose from his seat, but “one who had knowledge of the Book” promised to bring it in the blink of an eye. The throne thus procured, it was disguised to test whether Balqis was a recipient of divine guidance. When she entered Suleiman’s throne room she remarked on how much the throne resembled her own, but then when she entered a hall paved with''
''glass she mistook it for a lake, drawing up her skirts and baring her legs. When her folly was revealed, she recognized that her worship of the sun was also incorrect and acknowledged God as the only deity.''
''Story Seed: King Suleiman and the Queen of Sheba''
''Remains of Sheba’s sun worship might still be present in Ma’rib or other sites across the Middle East — the actual deities that the people of Sheba worshiped might be in reality either powerful Faerie entities, who crave worship from humans and plot to achieve this, or demons who represent themselves as a heavenly trinity, seeking to turn people away from worship of the True God. Was the magic of the mukkaribs a variant of the more common summoning arts — instead of calling jinn, could it command and con''
''trol celestial entities and Astra Planeta Daimons in a way similar to the Theurgical Mysteries? Characters might encounter the hoopoe or its descendents, magical creatures who might be guides through the region or even prove suitable as familiars or magical covenfolk. Also, what became of the queen’s throne and the hall paved with glass? Perhaps they are supernatural or even Divine items that remain somewhere, waiting to be rediscovered. In addition, what became of Suleiman and the Queen of Sheba? According to tradition, they both died, but they were powerful sorcerers. Could they still be alive, perhaps working behind the scenes to influence human events? Perhaps the Queen’s skills at entrancement and political magic has secretly left a legacy within the Storytelling magic of current sahirs, a legacy that may hint at further mysteries yet to be incorporated into the Solomonic Arts?''

==Story Seed: The Food of Sana’a==

''Why is the food in Sana’a so universally good? The characters gain possession of a cooking vessel from Sana’a and discover that it bears a hedge magic enchantment that makes meals unusually tasty, but that also Warps those who use the vessel over an extended period''
''of time. If such cooking vessels are in widespread use, then the entire population of the town may be suffering from Warping effects unawares. Who created these vessels, and do they know of the damage that they are causing the people of Sana’a?''

|]
''of celestial deities representing the sun, moon, and stars: al-Shams, ‘Ilmaqa, and al-Zuhara. Most of the palaces, temples, and gardens lie in ruins now, but the great jinn-built temple of Ghumdam remains, standing in solitary silence and bearing a Magic aura of 6, although smaller less powerful auras are scattered throughout the city, home to pagan jinn that once served the Queen at the bequest of King Suleiman. The great dyke that once held back the waters of the Wadi Udhana, protecting the city from the depredations of the uncontrollable water elementals that plague the river upstream, lies broken in the high mountains. The lands around here could be a good spot upon which to found a covenant, if the characters could overcome the difficulties of supplying such a remote site and the hostile supernatural inhabitants, who bear no love for wizards or summoners.''

==Hadramawt==

''Hadramawt is a relative backwater in the Muslim world. Its valleys contain few sources of water and are only sparsely populated, while the hills, though at some points heavily forested, are too steep to make agriculture or coppicing viable means of subsistence. Very few pilgrims or other travelers make it this far south, and the people tend to be surprised when they encounter strangers. It is remarkable only for the unusual creature known as the nisnas (nis-NEHS) and being the source of many of the resins and spices traded throughout the Mythic Middle East passing along the coast to Mythic Europe. Like other distant areas of the Mythic Middle East, its isolation may make it appealing as a potential site for initial Hermetic settlement, because the magical resources of the wilderness and the various''
''Magic jinn aligned to its natural features are relatively unknown to all but a handful of itinerant sahirs. The extreme lack of mundane resources, sparse population, and its distance from larger settlements will require magical solutions for the covenant to prosper.''

==Frankincense and Myrrh==

''Both these resinous materials are obtained from gnarled trees that grow predominantly in the fog-wrapped mountains of Hadramawt, although groves can be found in parts of Oman, Ethiopia, and on the isolated island of Soqotra. Harvesters tap the trees, making small incisions that allow the milky sap to exude slowly and then harden into “tears” of sticky resin over three months. The two resins form the main ingredients of incense used throughout the Mythic Middle East and''

[|

==The Nisnas==

''Magic Might: 10 (Corpus) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –3, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size: –1 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human; Magical Monster; Essential Virtue (Fast Leaper), Ways of the Forests; Keen Vision, Long-Winded, Sharp Ears, Voice of the Forest, Wilderness Sense; Enemies (people of Hadramawt); Compulsion (curiosity), Missing Eye, Missing Hand, Small Frame Magical Qualities and Inferiorities:''
''Greater Power, Improved Defense x2, Improved Fatigue x2, Improved Initiative x2, Improved Soak x2; Monstrous Appearance*; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Cautious +1, Curious +3, Skittish +2; Fast (Leaping) +6* Combat: Fist: Init +6, Attack +2, Defense +8, Damage –3''
''Soak: +6 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Arabic 4 (listening in), Athletics 5 (leaping), Awareness 3 (ambushes), Brawl 3 (fist), Concentration 2 (jumping), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), Hadramawt Lore 3 (forests), Hunt 3 (tracking), Stealth 3 (sneak), Survival 3 (forests), Wilderness Sense 3 (forests) Powers: Hop like the Wind, 0 points, Init +5, Corpus: R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind. The nisnas can make great leaps to cover terrain at speed. This works like the Hermetic spell Gift of the Frog’s Legs, except that the nisnas may make a great leap every round. (Greater Power, 20 levels, –2 Might cost, +4 Initiative) Vis: 2 pawns Corpus, in foot. Appearance: The nisnas looks like a small man, but with half a head (with no face), half a body, one arm, one leg, a sheep’s tail and half a face implanted in its chest.''
''The nisnas is found in the forests of Yemen and Hadramawt, though its origin seems to be in Hadramawt specifically. It is a wild, inoffensive creature, but the people of Hadramawt find its flesh sweet, so they hunt it for food. Nisnases can speak, and tales are told of some who begged for mercy before they were slain.''
''Story Seed: An Escaped Nisnas''
''The characters come across a nisnas that has escaped from its captors. It begs them to help it get away. This is likely to raise a moral or emotional dilemma for some characters. According to most religious teachings, only humans have souls. Yet this creature seems literally half-human; so does it have a soul? Even if not, will the characters willingly refuse aid to a creature that is begging for them to help it escape from being eaten?''

|]
''Mythic Europe. Myrrh was traditionally more expensive in ancient Rome, although frankincense has always been more popular, and each is worth more than its weight in gold when traded. The resin trees are found on the more inaccessible wooded slopes of the area and guarded by flying serpents known as syrenii (or iaculii). These mundane guardians must be driven off by harvesters with smoke created by burning a similar resinous reagent imported from Anatolia known as storax. Frankincense, literally “incense of the French,” comes from the stunted and hardy mogar tree. It is commonly referred to as olibanum (al-lubban, “that which results from milking”). It is a light yellow resin, often tinted with green, known for its medicinal qualities, in particular its ability to quicken the blood. The quality of the resin depends on the exact climatic and soil conditions, with each tree having a specific time when it produces its best resin. When burned, it gives off a slightly balsamic and lemony fragrance characteristic of incense. The charred resin is one of the main components of the eye-powder referred to as kohl (see earlier). Frankincense resin has the following Shape & Material bonuses: +3 medicine, +5 promote life. Myrrh, in contrast, is a reddish-brown resin, with the best quality specimens being both darker and more translucent than''
''inferior examples. It has a sharp pleasant scent and when burned gives off a heavy, acrid smoke with a hint of vanilla. Apart from its use in incense, it is used as an additive in wine, for embalming ointment,''
''and in the holy oil used by the Eastern Orthodox Church. Myrrh has the following Shape & Material bonuses: +3 relieve arthritis or inflammation, +5 preservation, +2 sanctify.''

[|

==Flying Serpent (Iaculus)==

''The flying serpents known to Pliny as syrenii are found in great numbers in southern Arabia and on the island of Soqotra to the far south of Yemen (see Rival Magic, page 110). The Arabian snakes are typically white in coloration with batlike wings, and an individual syrenus may sport a pair of short legs. These snakes perch in the incense trees of Hadramawt and are known for their darting attack, leaping out of trees onto passing prey. Flocks of syrenii attempt to migrate into Egypt each year, only to be destroyed by their natural enemies, the ibises. Hermetic magi refer to these snakes as iaculii, but most mundanes call them “javelin-snakes” or “darters” due to their''
''unusually rapid and lethal method of attack. As the ibis is linked to Thoth and therefore Hermes, most Hermetic magi consider an iaculus an ill-omened creature, but at least one Quaesitor uses them as aids to his investigations. Exceptional syrenii are believed to have additional powers allowing them to ignore wards and other protection magic in order to deliver their venom, but these claims have yet to be investigated by Hermetic magi. Their exact relationship to the magical Olibanum Serpents of Soqotra is unclear but the Arabian serpents are much less sociable than their kin and appear resistant to being tamed short of magical means. It is not known wheth''
''er the syrenii originated on Soqotra or the more aggressive variety represents a more primitive species that was then imported from the mainland. Syrenii use the base statistics for Adders listed in The Book of Mundane Beasts or Realms of Power: Magic, page 141, modified as follows: increase Quickness to +4; gain ability to fly; add Ferocity (when leaping) and Improved Characteristics Virtues; add the Fast Flyer and Good Jumper Qualities; add Athletics 4 (jumping). Any character who makes a Intelligence + Magic Lore or Intelligence + Arabia Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 9 will recall that these creatures can be scattered by burning the resin of the storax tree.''

|]

==Iram, City of a Thousand Pillars==

''(The tribe of) ‘Ad rejected warnings. Then how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings. Lo! We let loose on them a raging wind on a day of constant calamity, Sweeping men away as though they were uprooted trunks of palm-trees. Then see how (dreadful) was My punishment after My warnings!''
''— The Qur’an 54: 18-21''
''The capital city of Ubar was home to the people of ‘Ad, a race of giants who held sway over much of Yemen, Hadramawt, and ‘Uman five generations after the Great Flood, from their mythical homeland of al-Akhaf. However, the people of ‘Ad were idolaters, and when God commissioned one of them, the prophet Hud, to bring them back to the right religion, they rejected him, persisting in their idolatry even after God inflicted a drought on them as a warning. In the end God sent a great storm to destroy them, with the exception of Hud and the few who accepted his message. The storm drove the city deep into the sands. There it lies still, waiting to be discovered by explorers. The great depression in the sands above the surface of the city has a Magic aura of 5, hinting at the greater riches beneath.''

==‘Uman==

''Located at the eastern end of the Arabian Peninsula, ‘Uman’s interior is mostly hot and dry desert, while the coastal mountains and plains are cooler and more fertile, supporting agriculture. The province also forms a channel for trade between Arabia and the Indian Ocean, which is conducted via various ports on its coasts. The majority of the population of ‘Uman follow a variant form of Islam called Ibadism.''

[|

==Hadramawt and ‘Uman Story Seeds==

''The Trees That Cry Blood''
''In the seaside hills of Hadramawt is a grove of five ancient mogar trees that seem to grow directly from the rock, resisting even the thrashings of the seasonal monsoons of the Erythraean Sea. The resin produced from these trees, when harvested during a violent storm, yields unusually pure frankincense tears that each contain a single pawn of dedicated Rego Terram vis — each tree produces several pawns of vis per harvest. The timing of the harvest storms is complex, but well-known to the local inhabitants, who are terrified of the particularly large and aggressive population of syrenii nestled among the branches of the grove. Harvesting the vis is no easy undertaking, as the serpents seem immune to the usual storax smoke and standard wards appear to have little effect. Even if successfully harvested, the existence of the trees becomes readily known to another magical group, whether they be rival Hermetic explorers, local hedge wizards or sahirs representing the Order of Suleiman. Perhaps renegade members of the Olibanum tribe of the normally isolationist Soqotrans are interested in the unusual resin produced (see Rival Magic for details on these non-Hermetic wizards). Continued supernatural disturbance and intense magical activity or botches in the grove may awaken the trees, providing another obstacle to harvesting as the animated bushes gain the ability to actively resist interlopers with their spiny arms. Are the tears of the trees worth the price in blood?''
''Discovering the Lost City''
''There are a number of ways that characters might come across this lost city. They might come across a map indicating its location; they might be approached by a descendent of one of the''
''survivors of the destruction who wishes to recover something from the city; or they might come across it purely by accident, finding a tunnel into the earth or even reaching it after falling victim to a patch of dry quicksand. However they find it, visitors to the city find it intact in a great cavern under the desert, still filled with the riches of its inhabitants, along with their desiccated corpses, and the Magic auras here remain strong. Indeed, this makes it an attractive site for a new covenant. The major difficulty is navigating the city, for its inhabitants were about 12 yards in height and hence everything is built on a much larger scale than it would be for normal humans. The discovery of the ancient city may draw the attention of the remaining Giants of ‘Ad, itinerant stonesmiths renown for their building skills. Will the giants look favorably upon the discoverers or will they try and prevent the city from disclosing its ancient secrets and treasures?''
''The Witches of Nizwa''
''Perhaps the witches of Nizwa are a movement of Infernalists or Faerie wizards who become the arch-enemies of the characters. Banished Soqotran witches may have formed a secret community in exile, or the group may be agents of the Olibanum King trying to discredit and destabilize the Order of Suleiman (see Rival Magic, pages 110–141). The group may even be the last remnant of a tradition of sorceresses privy to the astral magic of ancient Sheba. Alternatively, the rumors may be utterly unfounded, which has interesting implications if the characters have found an attractive site for a covenant near the city, leading to stories, or even a complete saga, based on the theme of overcoming negative preconceptions and stereotypes.''

|]

==The Cradle & The Crescent Muscat==

''Perhaps the same as the Crypto Portus (“Hidden Port”) of Ptolemy or the Moscha of Pliny, this coastal town is a prominent trade point for voyages traveling beyond the Mythic Middle East. Many voyagers dreaming of wealth depart, never to return, from its quays. Recently conquered from the Abbasids by the local Yahmad tribe, the city is looking to expand trade further eastwards. It is the home of a large group of sahirs specializing in the Solomonic Art of Travel, who have founded a bayt al-hikma dedicated to discovering the legendary islands encountered in the tales by Sinbad the Sailor.''

==Nizwa==

''Nizwa is the royal city of ‘Uman, home to the local Nabhanid kings and a center of religion, trade and art. It has numerous beautifully decorated mosques and palaces, as well as bustling markets that are particularly famous for their silver jewelry and finely crafted daggers. Several buyut of sahirs are found within the city and its hinterlands. However, Nizwa also has a darker side, reputed to be the home of witches and sorcerers. Among the deeds ascribed to these are instantaneous travel, achieved by crossing a line drawn in the sand to appear at another location, and, more sinisterly, turning people into mindless slaves by making them appear to die, then taking their “corpses” and controlling them.''

[|

==Giant of ‘Ad==

''Descendants of Great ‘Ad, the giants of southern Arabia are colossal magical creatures from pre-Islamic times. Descended from Noah’s third son, they have dwelled within magic regiones deep within the deserts of Oman since the loss of their greatest creation, the fabled City of a Thousand Pillars. Unlike many magical creatures, the ‘Adites are not immortal and weaken if they spend too much time outside strong desert Magic auras.''

==Giant of ‘Ad==

''Magic Might: 20 (Corpus) Season: Autumn Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre –1, Com –1, Str +13, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik –4. Size: +7 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human; Improved Characteristics, Magical Champion, Ways of the Desert; Pagan; Anchored to the Desert; (Magical) Animal Companion, Offensive to Spirits. Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic x6; Focus Power, 3 points; Monstrous Appearance (free); Acclimation Prone; Susceptible to Deprivation. Personality Traits: Proud +2, Focused –1 Combat: Chisel (as knife): Init –4, Attack +3, Defense –2, Damage +15 Stomp (kick): Init –5, Attack +4, Defense –1, Damage +16 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–12), –3 (13–''
''24), –5 (25–36), Incapacitated (37– 48), Dead (49+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (falconry), Arabia Lore 6 (cities), ‘Adid 5 (ancient), Bargain 3 (payment for services), Brawl 2 (stomp), Craft (stonemason) 6, Magic Lore 4 (Arabia), Survival 3 (desert). Powers: Stonesmith, 1–4 points, Init –4, Terram: Duplicates any non-Ritual Creo Terram, Intellego Terram or Muto Terram spell less than or equal to 20th level that affects stone, at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of effect. Equipment: mason’s tools, sand-colored Bedouin robes Vis: 1 pawn of Corpus vis in heart, 1 pawn of Terram vis in each hand. Appearance: Towering above the average human, a giant of ‘Ad stands over 30 feet tall but appears much more civilized than the primitive giants of Europe. They have an affinity for falcons and other birds of prey and are usually found accompanied by at least one nesting within their long hair or beard. Lone giants emerge from the deep desert to offer their building skills to sorcerers and emirs, in return for insights into the secrets of eternal life.''
''A giant of ‘Ad is balanced as a starting character, albeit a powerful initial Companion option. This character guide has 295 Experience Points available to spend on Abilities and 5 Virtue points free (to be balanced with 5 points of Flaws). His falcon companion may be either mundane or magical, although proportionately larger (up to Size +3) and has its statistics adjusted accordingly.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
