''And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east; and there he put the man whom he had formed.    — The Bible, Genesis 2:8''
''In Mythic Europe, scholars trace the origins of humanity to the Middle East and to the final acts of creation undertaken by God, when Adam and Eve were created to tend the Garden of Eden at the junction of the Pison, Gihon, Euphrates, and Hiddekkel (or Tigris) rivers. They ate of the forbidden Tree of Knowledge and were driven from the garden. Worse was to follow, with the casting-down of the Tower of Babel and eventually the Great Flood, which destroyed almost all of humanity.''

==The Ancient Empires==

''In the wake of the flood, the earth was repopulated, and the Middle East became home to a series of empires that dominated''
''the region. At its center, on the crescent of land known as Mesopotamia, between the Tigris and Euphrates rivers, the ancient peoples developed the earliest form of writing, and there appeared city-states that traded or warred with one another as the inclination suited them. Dynasties of rulers rose and fell, including various Babylonian and Assyrian kings, some of whom ruled empires that stretched as far west as the Holy Land and Syria. Meanwhile, the lands to the east of Mesopotamia were home to a variety of peoples living either as nomads or in urban centers. The ancient Mesopotamians were pagans, worshiping a variety of deities, most of whom were powerful faerie creatures that demanded worship from mortals. These pagan practices were to be their downfall, however. In 539 BC, the Babylonian king Belshazzar provoked the ire of God by drinking from the sacred vessels of the temple of Jerusalem, which had been taken by his forefather Nebuchadnezzar when he led the Jews of the Holy Land into captivity. Three days after this act, his empire was overthrown by the armies of Cyrus the Great, who had united the Persians and adopted Zoroastrianism, becom''
''ing an instrument of the Lord’s wrath in the face of this profanation. Cyrus and his successors ruled the Middle East until the late fourth century BC, when they were overthrown by the Greeks under Alexander the Great. After Alexander’s death in 323 BC, the Middle East came under the control of one of his generals, who founded the Seleucid dynasty that ruled in the region until its conquest by the Romans from the west and the Persian Parthians from the east in the second century BC. Thereafter, the Middle East became divided between the Romans and, later, the Byzantines, on the one side, against whom stood the Persian dynasties of the Parthians and their successors, the Sassanids, on the other. The situation remained thus until the seventh century AD, when a new force entered the scene.''

==The Rise of Islam==

''Read: In the name of thy Lord Who createth,  Createth man from a clot. Read: And thy Lord is the Most Bounteous,  Who teacheth by the pen,  Teacheth man that which he knew not.    — The Qur’an 96: 1-5''
''In 610, an Arab merchant named Muhammad began to receive the divine revelation. However, his message was not well received by the authorities of his home city of Mecca, which was a major trading center that included a major pagan shrine, the Ka’ba (KA’-ba), which brought in pilgrims and trade from all over Arabia. He''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Sacred Vessels==

''What became of the sacred vessels from the temple after Belshazzar’s feast? Cyrus restored the Jewish community in the Holy Land, and undoubtedly many of the Temple treasures were also taken back there. However, the profanation of the vessels could have rendered them unusable in the eyes of the Jewish priests. In this case, they may have been left behind, somewhere in the Middle''
''East, where they still remain. Perhaps the profanation has transformed them into Infernal objects, which even now are being passed from one owner to the next, bringing ruin upon each. Or perhaps the priests were mistaken, and they are in fact holy relics that may bring great benefits to those who are judged worthy enough to find their resting place in the ruins of Babylon.''

|}
''and his followers were forced to emigrate to Medina in 622, from which he fought and defeated the Meccans in a war lasting eight years. In 630 Mecca submitted to Muhammad’s authority, and he confirmed the Ka’ba’s importance to Islam as a shrine originally constructed by the angels, then rebuilt by Adam and later by Abraham with the help of his son Ishmael, the ancestor of the Arabs. Meanwhile, Islam was spreading across the Arabian Peninsula, and by Muhammad’s death in 632 most of the inhabitants of the region were Muslims.''

==The Caliphates==

''Muhammad was succeeded as leader of the Muslim community by a sequence of rulers known as khalifas (kha-LEE-faz), or caliphs, “successors to the Prophet” who were both the religious and secular leaders of the Muslim state, though none claimed to be prophets themselves. The first four caliphs were chosen by general consensus of the community, but the last of these, ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib (r. 656-661), spent his entire reign fighting against enemies within the Muslim community, eventually losing his life to a political opponent with a poisoned blade. He was succeeded as caliph by the leader of his enemies, Mu’awiya ibn Abi Sufyan (r. 661-680), who set up a dynastic caliphate, known as the Umayyad (um-MYyad) caliphate, with its capital at Damascus. The Umayyads ruled from Damascus for nearly a century, and during this period the Muslim world expanded through a mixture of force and diplomacy to its greatest extent, stretching from North Africa and Spain in the west to the borderlands of Central Asia and India in the east. The Umayyads also set up many of the administrative, cultural, and social structures of the Muslim world. Arabic became the language of the administration, a uniform coinage was established, and scholars began to debate issues of law and theology. However, the Umayyads were not unopposed. The supporters of ‘Ali continued to assert the claims of his descendants to the caliphate, through ‘Ali’s bloodline as cousin and son-in-law of Muhammad. They gradually divided into a number of''
''groups collectively known as the Shi‘a ((SHEE-’ah), sing/adj. Shi‘i), a process that would continue in the centuries that followed (for more on Shi‘ism, see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 112-113). A number of these Shi‘i groups were sources of rebellions against the Umayyads, and the latter also faced opposition from others who felt that they were impious and illegitimate rulers. The culmination of this opposition came in 750, when the Umayyads were displaced by a family descended from an uncle of the Prophet, known as the ‘Abbasids ((‘ab-BEH-sidz), r. 750-the present). The ‘Abbasids built a new capital in Iraq, called Baghdad, which became a prosperous center of a flourishing Muslim world. This was the golden age of the Islamic world, when great advances began''
''to be made in science, literature, and theology, while the caliphs sent embassies to the corners of the world. It was the time of caliphs such as the legendary Harun alRashid (r. 786-809), who periodically ventured out by night into the streets of Baghdad in disguise to mingle with his subjects, rewarding the good and punishing the bad, and is also known for having exchanged embassies with Charlemagne himself. In the meantime, increasing numbers of the caliph’s subjects were converting to Islam, though it would take another three or four hundred years before Muslims would form the overall majority in their lands. The golden age could not last, and from the mid-ninth century ‘Abbasid power began to decline. The caliphs faced increasing rebellions by Shi‘a and others,''
''financial problems, and greater difficulty in controlling their subordinates. Over the next hundred years, the Muslim world fragmented, with the various provinces becoming largely autonomous states that coexisted or warred with one another as suited their ambitions. In 945 the caliphs came firmly under the control of their immediate deputies, a situation that remained broadly the same until the midtwelfth century. The Seljuk Turks, lead by Togrul Beg, invaded from the Great Steppe in 1037, and had gained control of the Mythic Middle East by the mid-11th century, relegating the caliph to a figurehead while the Seljuk Turks commanded the ‘Abbasid armies and provinces. By 1157 the caliph had regained enough power to drive the Seljuk sultan out of Baghdad, and an uneasy truce between the religious and secular rulers was instituted that remains to this day.''
''The decline in fortunes of the Seljuks was accelerated by the rebellion of the Shansabani in 1149, and the uprising of the Ghuzz in 1151 in Persia’s eastern provinces. Ala ad-Din Tekish, the leader of Khwarazm province, capitalized on the collapse of the Seljuk Empire after the death of Sultan Ahmed Sanjar, and eventually defeated his successor Togrul III in 1194. His son Ala ad-Din Mohammed defeated the Shansabani in 1206, and is now the ruler of a vast empire that stretches from the River Jaxartes to the Persian Gulf. While he has declared himself shah (Parsi “king”), the caliph in Baghdad has yet to recognize this claim. The current caliph, al-Nasir (r. 11801225), is a vigorous ruler, but his realm is much reduced, encompassing in reality little more than Iraq, though his rule is nominally recognized by most of the Sunni (SUN-nee) Muslim provincial rulers.''

==The Mongol Invasion==

''If your saga follows the course of history, by the end of the reign of al-Nasir the eastern Muslim world has already been attacked by the Mongol hordes of Genghis Khan (r. 1206-1227), who have occupied the region east of the Jaxartes River. By Genghis Khan’s death they have occupied territory as far west as eastern Persia. Subsequently they take western Persia, Georgia, Armenia, northern Iraq, and Asia Minor. In 1258 they take Baghdad, where they roll the caliph up in a carpet and trample him to death, following a Mongol custom that forbids the shedding of royal blood onto the ground. They are only turned back in 1260, when their advance is checked in Syria by a Mamluk army from Egypt.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Mongol Threat==

''The large-scale death and destruction in Transoxiana may cause mystical ripples throughout Mythic Europe that reach various magi of the Order of Hermes. Like the rumored Order of Odin in the north, information on the nomads is conflicting and incomplete. The Primus of Ex Miscellanea is troubled by strange dreams. Dire prophecies are uttered by the seers, astrologers and other diviners across various Houses. The Tremere learn secondhand through their network of this potential threat to the Order and mobilize their intelligence network and resources.''
''The Tenens of the East is greatly troubled by the chaos emerging from beyond the Levant. Even the normally aloof Merinita report an increased turbulence in Arcadia and the discovery of new lands and stories emerging within the Faerie realm. A strange apparition appears during the Great Tribunal at Durenmar despite the usual mystical defenses prepared for such a momentous meeting. Details on the Mongol devastation of the eastern Islamic lands and rules for Mongol shamans are given in the sidebars of Chapter 9: On the Silk Road.''

==Story Seed: Disputes over the Caliphate==

''When the ‘Abbasids overthrew the Umayyads, they attempted to wipe out as many members of the family as possible. They missed at least one who went on to found a new ruling dynasty in Spain. It may be that they missed others, and their descendants may approach the characters seeking aid in gaining the caliphal throne. Likewise,''
''the characters could be approached by Shi’i claimants to the caliphate for the same reason. Some of these claimants may have inherited holy relics or other powerful supernatural items from their forbearers, which may tempt the characters to help them, or they may have supernatural powers that make their “requests” difficult to refuse.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
