''This chapter covers the political center and northwest provinces of the Sunni Muslim world, most of the rulers of which proclaim at least nominal allegiance to the ‘Abbasid caliph in Baghdad. However, in most areas provincial governors reign as independent rulers, only seeking approval from the caliph when it helps to bolster''
''their claims to legitimacy. The terrain of this region is divided broadly into three zones. In Iraq and much of the Jazira, especially between the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, are fertile plains where agriculture flourishes; in Iraq, in particular, many of these plains benefit from being irrigated by a network of canals''
''thousands of years old, though recent geological changes, combined with the little effort made by the government to address the effects of these or maintain the existing network, have sharply reduced their productivity. To the north, east, and northwest of these plains, the terrain becomes more mountainous, making cultivation more''

[|

==Aladlammu and Apsasu==

''Faerie Might: 30 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +8, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik –2 Size: +4 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Huge x3, Greater Power (Repel the Nightstalking Spirit), Increased Might, Major Virtue (Greater Immunity to Disease), Ritual Power (Restoration of the Defiled Body); Faerie Speech, Improved Characteristics x2, Improved Damage, Improved Soak x3, Increased Might x2, Hybrid Form, Lesser Power (Burn the Filthy Spirit), Positive Folk Tales, Second Sight; Compassionate, Sovereign Ward (special amulet, see later), Supernatural Nuisance (disease demons); Incognizant Personality Traits: Hatred for demons* +3, Helpful +2 Reputations: Foe of Demons 2 (Local) Combat: Trample: Init 0, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +14 Soak: +8 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Pretenses: Awareness 3 (alertness), Brawl 7 (hooves), Chirurgy 2 (heatstroke),''
''Folk Ken 4 (spotting the possessed), Infernal Lore 4 (disease spirits), Second Sight 5 (demons) Powers: Burn The Filthy Spirit, 0 points, Init –5, Vim: By making eye contact with a demon (whether through normal sight or Second Sight), the aladlammu can strip it of 15 Might. PeVi 10 (Base 5, +1 Eye) Lesser Power (10 levels, –2 Might cost, +1 Init) Repel the Nightstalking Spirit, 1 point, Init –4, Vim: The aladlammu can designate a room or area of clear ground to be safe from demons. If there are no clear pre-existing boundaries, the creature must mark the protected area somehow to create an unbroken line, although this need not be a circle. If the power has a sufficient Penetration Total, no demon with an Infernal Might of 25 or less may enter this designated area. ReVi 30 (Base 25, +1 unusual Target) Greater Power (30 levels, –2 Might cost, +10 experience points in Penetration) Restoration of the Defiled Body, 3 points, Init –11, Corpus: as per the spell of the same name (ArM5, page 129). As a ritual power, this power requires a permanent reduction in Might Score as well as Might points. CrCo 25''
''(Base 20, +1 Touch) Ritual Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost, +15 experience points in Penetration) Vis: 6 pawns of Animal, in hooves Appearance: The aladlammu has the body of a mighty bull, an immense pair of wings, and a bearded human head. The apsasu have a similar appearance, but their heads are female. When they strike with their hooves against an opponent, sparks fly.''
''The aladlammu and apsasu are guardian creatures created by the gods of old, male and female respectively. Creatures with the same characteristics, but with winged human bodies to match their heads are called shedu if male, or lamassu if female. Colossal effigies of these beasts can be found among many major ruins of the ancient Middle East. They are fierce opponents of harmful spirits, and a region lucky enough to have an effigy can evoke the faerie to assist them if plagued by disease or demons. A character with an appropriate Area Lore and Faerie Lore can construct an amulet that constitutes an aladlammu’s Sovereign Ward (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 52). These creatures are not suitable as player characters.''

|]
''difficult, although valleys provide areas where crops may be grown. Meanwhile, to the west lies the great Syrian desert that divides Mesopotamia from Syria and the Holy Land; this desert also merges to the south with the Nefud of Arabia. Most of the inhabitants of these regions are Muslims, although there are also significant populations of Christians and Jews. The majority of people live in the cities, towns, and villages that cover the area, but the desert areas are home to a mix of wandering nomads and settled communities at oases.''

==The Starving Gods==

''The great gods, the Anunna, Stayed parched and famished.[…] But, like sheep, could only fill their windpipes (with bleating). Thirsty as they were, their lips Discharged only the rime of famine.[…] (Atrahasis) put down… Provided food… The gods smelt the fragrance, Gathered like flies over the offering.   — Atrahasis, Tablet 3''
''The gods of ancient Mesopotamia, as ancient Faerie creatures, offer interesting possibilities as antagonists in sagas and stories. Faeries ultimately depend on human involvement with them to gain vitality, especially through the retelling of stories in which they are characters. However, the gods of ancient Mesopota''
''mia have been largely abandoned by their worshipers. Nevertheless, the religion persists in scattered cult centers throughout Iraq and the Jazira, notably Harran, Mardin, Ashshur, and Mosul. Although not sanctioned by Islam, the priests (many of them yatus — see Mythic Persia) walk without fear through the streets in their distinctive tall conical hats and tunics. These pitifully few worshipers are woefully insufficient to sate the gods, who have been forced to remain in hidden regiones for centuries. Literally starved of human interaction, they are desperate for attention and may by now not be too discriminating about how this attention is gained. Some may have grand ambitions of having their cults resurrected. Others may simply seek to make friends with player characters, though their means of doing so may at times demonstrate a lack of understanding of human emotions, perhaps becoming aggressive or worse if their initial overtures are rebuffed. The following represents a selection of the deities worshiped in ancient Mesopotamia:''

[|

==Demons of Mesopotamia==

''Mythic Mesopotamia throngs with demons, some of whom have been active since ancient times. The uttuku are a local form of Mazzikim (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 73), and are Infernal jinn (see Chapter 4: The Jinn). The galla-demons are powerful disease spirits similar to the Decani (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 52), and are specifically opposed by the Aladlammu (see later). The lilu are a form of ghul who haunt the wastes of Mythic Mesopotamia, and are especially dangerous to children and pregnant women. Their female counterparts are the lilitu, who are succubi (Realms of Power: The Infer''
''nal, page 55). Finally, the gidim are Infernal ghosts, specifically Reveners (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 75) who return to torment bereaved families. Among those who still worship the old gods (such as in Harran or Mardin) there is a class of priest-magicians called the ashipu, or exorcists. The practices of most ashipu consist of knowledge of the weaknesses of demons (through the Infernal Lore Ability), and how to construct protective amulets that counteract them. Some ashipu may have more active powers against demons, and may be members of the Suhhar Sulayman.''

|]
''Anu: Sky god; head of the elder gods (Anunnaki); cult center at Uruk. Ea: God of subterranean freshwater ocean; god of arts, crafts, magic, and wisdom; cult center at Eridu. Ellil: God of the earth; head of the younger gods (Igigi), and keeper of an object of supreme power known as the Tablet of Destinies; cult center at Nippur. Ishtar: Goddess of fertility, sexual love, and war; cult centers at Uruk, Nineveh, and Erbil. Dumuzi: God of flocks and agriculture; lover of Ishtar, for whom he spends six months every year in the Underworld. Adad: Storm god and canal controller; lord of omens and divination using animal livers; cult center at Aleppo. Mami: Great mother goddess; cult center at Kesh (unknown site in central Mesopotamia). Nergal: God of war, plague, and forest fires; king of the Underworld; cult center at Kutha.''
''Ereshkigal: Weeping queen of the Underworld; wife of Nergal; cult center at Kutha. Sin: Moon god; god of wisdom; cult centers at Ur and Harran. Shamash: Sun god; god of justice; cult centers at Sippar and Larsa. Marduk: Patron deity of Babylonia; king of the gods; cult center at Babylon Ashshur: Patron deity of Assyria; king of the gods; cult center at Ashshur.''

==Tiamat’s Creatures==

''In the Babylonian Epic of Creation, the primordial Tiamat engendered the line of gods with her consort Apsu, but later grew distressed by the tumult of the younger gods, and produced 11 races of monsters to exterminate them. Eventually she was killed by Marduk the champion-god, and the world was made from her corpse. Those''
''who have studied the Magic Realm might recognize this myth as a version of the Titanomachia (Realms of Power: Magic, page 108), where a race of faerie gods wrests power from primordial Magic beings. Following the demise of their mother, the eleven types of monsters were pressed into the service of the gods. Those gods may now be fading in power, but their servants can still be found performing their ancient duties. These monsters are: the mushmahhu (a seven-headed dragon), the ushumgallu (a lion-dragon), the bashmu (a horned snake 60 leagues in length), the mushhushshu (a snake-dragon; see later), the lahamu (a giant covered in long curly hair), the ugallu (a man-like creature with a lion’s head and tail, and bird’s feet), the uridimmu (a man with the hindquarters of a lion), the girtablulla (scorpion-man; see later), the umu dabrutu (a fierce storm), the kulullu (a merman, half man, half fish), and the kusarikka (a man with the hindquarters of a bull, and bull horns).''

[|

==Girtablullu==

''Magic Might: 17 (Animal) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int –1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +3, Qik +4 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human; Ways of the Desert; Great Quickness; Greater Malediction (inhibited at night, see later); Dutybound Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Improved Abilities, Improved Attack (bow) x2, Improved Characteristics x4, Improved Damage (sting), Improved Might x2, Improved Powers, Improved Soak x2, Lesser Power (Venom), Minor Virtue (Large) Personality Traits: Fiercely Protective* +3 Combat: Bow: Init +5*, Attack +20*, Defense +13*, Damage +11 Sting: Init +9*, Attack +15*, Defense +15*, Damage +9 and venom (see Powers) * Includes +3 for Ways of the Desert Soak: +12''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Arabic 1 (Maslawi), Athletics 4 (over sand), Awareness 3 (interlopers), Babylonian 5 (orders), Brawl 5 (sting), Bows 5 (longbow), Hunt 2 (thieves), Leadership 3 (scorpionmen), Local Area Lore 1 (hiding places), Penetration 3 (Venom power), Stealth 3 (ruins) Powers: Venom, 0 points, Init n/a, Corpus: the sting of the scorpion-man’s tail contains a potent venom. Characters struck must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or take a Heavy Wound. The sting is treated as a weapon, so this power has no Initiative score. PeCo 20 (base 15, +1 Touch) Lesser Power (20 levels, –4 Might cost, +10 experience in Penetration) Equipment: bow, quiver of 11 arrows, lamellar armor (equivalent to full''
''metal-reinforced leather) Encumbrance: 0 (3) Vis: 3 pawns of Perdo, in sting Appearance: From the waist up, appears as a human warrior, with long hair and a braided beard. From the waist down, the girtablullu has the shiny black carapace of a scorpion, including its long tail equipped with a stinger. It stands on two clawed legs like those of a bird, and carries a bow. Some scorpion-men have birdlike wings.''
''The gods appropriated the girtablullu as guardians of monuments and sacred places, and they are particularly associated with the sun god Shamash. Consequently, these scorpion-men are encountered by those who investigate the ruins left behind by cultures past. Girtablullu are usually found in small groups, which constitute a Trained Group. They are most powerful during the day, suffering from the Poor Eyesight, No Sense of Direction, and Clumsy Flaws when encountered at night.''

|]

==Iraq==

''There have been human settlements in Iraq for thousands of years, and this continues to be the case in 1220, especially along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. The ancient Faerie gods who used to rule over this land are no longer seen abroad, though remains of their ziggurat temples still tower into the sky to mystify passersby. Now Iraq is the political center of the Muslim world, a status it has held, with varying degrees of actual authority, since the ‘Abbasid takeover in 750. Soon after''
''this event, the ‘Abbasids built their capital at Baghdad, from which they have reigned almost continuously ever since. For much of the 10th, 11th, and 12th centuries, the ‘Abbasid caliphs were figureheads under the control of their deputies, but since the reign of the caliph al-Muqtafi (r. 1136– 1160) the caliphs have been able to resist control by others and rule Iraq independently. As noted earlier, the current caliph, al-Nasir, is a strong ruler; at times his direct authority has also been acknowledged in the Jazira and parts of Persia, and many rulers of the provinces respect his authority, in name at least.''

==Qasr Shirin==

''Overlooked by the mountains of the Persian plateau, Qasr Shirin (“the palace of Shirin”) is a large walled village on the road to Jibal province. It takes its name from Shirin, the wife of the Persian king Khusraw II Parviz, who used to dwell here. The ruins of her palace remain, and on nights when the moon is full, the palace comes alive with Faerie versions of Shirin, Khusraw, the sculptor Farhad, and the rest of their court, eternally re-enacting the story of the courtship of Shirin. Characters who visit the site at the full moon take on the roles of characters in this''

[|

==Mushhushshu==

''Magic Might: 25 (Animal) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +6, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Arcane Lore, Clear Thinker, Keen Vision, Lightning Reflexes, Piercing Gaze, Strong Willed, Tough; Proud, Wanderlust; Infamous Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic, Major Virtue (Greater Immunity to Poison), Greater Power (Voice of Regal Authority); Gift of Speech, Improved Abilities x2, Improved Attack (bite) x2, Improved Powers x2, Improved Soak x2, Lesser Power (Assessing Gaze), Lesser Power (Eye of the Serpent), Minor Virtue (Desert Regio Network*), Minor Virtue (Large), Minor Virtue (Lesser Immunity to Arrows), Minor Virtue (Puissant Brawl), Minor Virtue (Second Sight) * See Realms of Power: Magic, page 45. Personality Traits: Vain +6, Aloof +2, Thirst for Knowledge +2 Reputations: Violent against Foreigners 2 (Local) Combat: Bite*: Init –1, Attack +18, Defense +9, Damage +9 Claws*: Init –1, Attack +14, Defense +10, Damage +10 * Because of the sinuous body of the mushhushshu, it can attack with both''
''claws and bite in the same round. Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Arabic 4 (Maslawi), Assyria Lore 4 (magical places), Awareness 3 (invaders), Babylonian 5 (Assyrian), Brawl 6+2 (bite), Concentration 3 (Eye of the Serpent), Hunt 4 (interlopers), Infernal Lore 3 (local demons), Intrigue 3 (politics), Faerie Lore 2 (servants of deities), Magic Lore 4 (local spirits), Mesopotamia Lore 4 (Old Babylonia), Penetration 4 (Voice of Regal Authority), Second Sight 4 (spirits) Powers: Assessing Gaze, 1 point, Init –10, Corpus: The mushhushshu can determine which of a group of humans poses it the greatest threat. This usually reveals who is the most competent warrior, but can also detect the presence (although not strength) of magic. InCo(Vi) 25 (Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Group, +1 requisite) Lesser Power (25 levels, –4 Might cost and +1 Init from Improved Powers) Voice of Regal Authority, 1 point, constant, Mentem: Anyone hearing the voice of the mushhushshu is strongly inclined to obey its commands. ReMe 35 (Base 5, +2 Sun, +3 Sound, +1''
''constant effect) Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost) Eye of the Serpent, 1 point, Init –6, Corpus: The mushhushshu can transfix a person with a glance, leaving him incapable of movement. ReCo 15 (Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Conc) Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost, +5 Init from Improved Powers) Vis: 5 pawns of Vim, in horns Appearance: The mushhushshu has the sinuous body of a snake, although it has four legs like a dragon; the forelegs are like those of a lion, and the hindlegs like those of an eagle. Its head has both horns and a splendid crest.''
''After the death of their mother Tiamat, the mushhushshu (moosh-chooshshoo, where the “ch” is pronounced as in “loch”) were assigned to Ashshur, the patron of Assyria. His priesthood were capable of summoning and controlling the mushhushshu, and there may be yatus in Harran (see later) who are still able to do so. Unless summoned, the mushhushshu roam through the hills and desert fringes of old Assyria, traveling between Magic auras and regiones. They are prone to attack any armed foreigners within the borders of Assyria, but can be forestalled from attacking by offering interesting information or important news. Before battle, if possible, the creature uses its Assessing Gaze power to determine the target for its Eye of the Serpent power.''

|]
''tale, gaining rewards or wisdom from their participation therein. A character might become Shirin, sought after by two men and unsure which of them to love; she might become Khusraw, the king, who expects to receive all that he desires and is bemused when he is unable to gain what he wants through the force of his position alone; or he might become Farhad, jockeying for Shirin’s affections even though his rival is the all-powerful king of Persia. Perhaps a trio of characters might take on all three roles, interacting with each other in ways that they would not do in their regular lives.''

==Samarra==

''The capital of the ‘Abbasid caliphs between 836 and 892, the city of Samarra used to be a sprawling complex of richly decorated palaces and mosques on both sides of the Tigris, where for most of that time the caliphs were virtual prisoners of bodyguards who in the meantime fought each other for control of their masters. However, after the caliphs returned to Baghdad the city fell into disrepair, and most of its buildings are now ruins. The major excep''
''tion is the Great Mosque of al-Mutawakkil (r. 847–861), an immense structure that is largely intact and is particularly well known for its spiral minaret, which towers about 180 feet above the ground. In 1220 the majority of the inhabitants of Samarra are Twelver Shi’is (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 112), who have remained in the city as it is home to the tombs of the 10th and 11th imams, as well a mosque with an underground chamber where the 12th imam vanished, which is also one of two places where he may reappear at the end of time (the other being Hilla, described later). Thus these Shi’is await his return here.''

==Baghdad==

''Baghdad is the political center of Islam, insofar as it is the seat of the caliph, even though the caliph’s political reach is actually fairly limited. Founded by the second ‘Abbasid caliph, al-Mansur (r. 754–75), the city has been home to the caliphs for most of the 458 years that have passed since its first stones were laid in 762. The oldest part of Baghdad is the Round City, the original triple-walled city founded on the west bank of the Tigris by al-Mansur, at the center of which lies the Bab al-Dhahab (Golden Gate) palace, which was the first caliphal palace. Over the next two centuries, the caliphs expanded the city on both sides of the river, building mosques, palaces, and gardens, so that it enjoyed a summer of intellectual and cultural achievement. However, Baghdad has declined greatly since the old days. Repeated fires, floods and civil conflict have left much of it in ruins. On the west bank, each of the quarters is isolated from the others by walls and surrounded by a wasteland of architectural remains. On the east bank, the quarters around the caliph’s palace are prospering, but this only comprises a third of the city. Sectarian dissent between Shi’is and Sunnis, and also among different Sunni schools of law, are a cause of internal tension, which occasionally turns into violence. The major social group in the city unaffected by the decline is the Muslim mystic Sufis (SOOfeez), who are flourishing as a result of the building of several ribats (ri-BAWTZ),''

[|

==The Courtship of Shirin==

''The Persian tale of Khusraw and Shirin is best known in the version by the poet al-Nizami (d. 1209). Khusraw II, the King of Persia, falls in love with Shirin, an Armenian Christian princess. However, their courtship encounters difficulties, at which point there appears a rival for Shirin’s affections, the supernaturally strong sculptor Farhad. Khusraw and Farhad contest with each other, and the rivalry grows intense. Eventually Khusraw is able to get rid of his rival by ordering him to cut away the Behistun cliffs in the Zagros Mountains to find water, a seemingly impossible''
''task. Khusraw is briefly taken aback when news reaches him that Farhad has completed the task, so he sends a message to Farhad that Shirin has died. Farhad, distraught, throws himself from the cliffs to his death. Before doing so, he throws away his axe, made of pomegranate wood, and where it falls there grows a pomegranate tree, the fruit of which will cure any illness. Meanwhile Khusraw’s courtship of Shirin continues, and after he has proven himself through many acts of heroism, including killing a lion with his bare hands to save her life, she finally consents to marry him.''

==Story Seeds for Samarra and Baghdad==

''A Samarran Covenant''
''While parts of the city of Samarra are holy sites, it is a sprawling complex of buildings covering a wide area, and it may be that parts of it hide Magic auras and devices left behind from the activities of sorcerers at the courts of the caliphs. Thus it could be an attractive place to set up a covenant, particularly as even though the buildings are ruined, the underlying structures (wells, irrigation canals, etc.) remain largely intact. The major question is how the current mundane population of the city would react to a bunch of foreign wizards setting up home nearby.''
''The Wandering Caliph''
''From a scant few years after his death right up to the current day, the Suhhar Sulayman have heard tales of encounters with Harun al-Rashid. These encounters start innocuously enough, as a chance conversation with three strangers, but usually blossom into strange and fantastical adventures in Golden Baghdad. Many sahirs believe this Harun al-Rashid (accompanied by his vizier and executioner) to be the faerie ruler of Golden Baghdad, and those whom he invites across the Threshold into the Faerie Realm are chosen based on a contribution they can make to the betterment of his city.''

|]
''or hospices, for them by the caliphs. The caliphs have also been building or restoring a number of other religious institutions, including the city’s many mosques, shrines, and religious colleges, in an attempt to ease tensions, remove the divisions in the community, and promote a cultural revival. Every summer, many of the streets and most of the open land on the south side of Baghdad fills with stalls and tents in an enormous fair. This event is well-attended by merchants and travelers from all over the Mythic Middle East, and typically lasts most of the season. It is said that all manner of goods and services may be found at this event, including unique items and entertainments brought by strange men from fantastic lands. Visitors are cautioned to maintain a clear idea of what they seek before they go exploring, for there are said to be many vendors who appear only when their wares are especially desired, or who lure unwary travelers into their tents where they disappear forever. The summer bazaar is the site of the yearly meeting of the Suhhar Sulayman (Chapter 3: Order of Suleiman: The Majlis al-Suleiman).''
''The Dar al-Hikma''
''More Solomonic sahirs live in Baghdad than anywhere else in the world — easily a thousand of them. The city is home to no less than eight buyut al-hikma, including the great academy that sahirs call Dar alHikma, which was originally established by the First Council in Baghdad, north of the palace and halfway between the Bab alSham and the Bab al-Khurasan. This large building currently houses nearly a hundred young and old sahirs living and studying together, and is overseen by Niya al-Waziriyya al-Jabr Satefa al-Inshai al-Qasri alQalb. It is known to have an exceptional astrological observatory, with perhaps the finest astrolabe ever constructed to date, and the architecture is as grand as that of the Bab al-Dhahab Palace and Mosque. The Dar al-Hikma typically chooses its leader, and thus the representative for Majlis, based on the achievements of those who attend the academy. Niya has discovered a unique method of combining her Solomonic arts, yielding two spells that allow her to summon a spirit directly''
''from the Magic Realm and to summon multiple spirits at once. For this reason, she was chosen by the other sahirs to lead the bayt, despite her relative youth and the fact that she has The Gift. She will probably become Asala of the Ashab al-Qalb once her predecessor dies. She is said to believe that the Suhhar has stagnated, and that Gifted sahirs (in both senses) are its best hope to avoid extinction. This is a controversial position, as less than ten percent of the Suhhar have The Gift and Gifted sahirs are not generally admired.''
''Golden Baghdad''
''As noted previously, Baghdad enjoyed its time of greatest prosperity during the reign of the caliph Harun al-Rashid, and''
''this period has left its mark on the city. Scattered across Baghdad are numerous places where it is possible to cross into a Faerie version of the city. Here the roofs are covered with gold, the streets are paved with marble and the tales of the Arabian Nights are re-enacted, with or without the participation of visitors. Here it is possible to receive a visit at night from the caliph Harun al-Rashid, his vizier Ja’far the Barmakid, and his executioner, Masrur the eunuch, who frequently venture out in disguise to observe the behavior of the city’s inhabitants, rewarding the good and punishing the bad. Here one might find oneself eavesdropping on Sinbad the Sailor as he recounts his adventures to Sinbad the Porter. One might even travel beyond the walls of the city, going fishing with Judar the fisherman, seeking the ring of Solo''
''mon with Bulukiyya, or helping Hasan, the goldsmith of Basra, to obtain the love of a jinn maiden. It is also possible to take the role of one of these characters, experiencing their adventures firsthand. The entrances to Golden Baghdad may take any form, from a simple mundane doorway that happens to lead there, to an invisible gate that can only be perceived by those with Second Sight, Faerie Sight, or similar magic or powers. It is entirely possible to stray through such entrances into the Faerie Realm (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 20) without initially being aware that one has done so, especially in cases where the Guardian actually forms part of the Threshold. Indeed, straying into Golden Baghdad by accident is a common enough hazard that it is an acceptable excuse for absence among the people of the mundane version of the city, and most people in mundane Baghdad have visited Golden Baghdad at least once. Members''
''of the Suhhar Sulayman have attempted to map the entrances to Golden Baghdad, but entrances behave differently for different people, and most appear, disappear, and change, seemingly at random, with the result that only a small number of relatively stable entrances have been identified with any certainty. Members of the Suhhar also debate whether supernatural creatures found in mundane Baghdad are native to the mundane world, or are visitors from Golden Baghdad who have strayed the other way through such portals.''

==Al-Mada’in==

''Al-Mada’in is a small but densely-populated town to the southeast of Baghdad. In the seventh and eighth centuries it was a much larger complex of seven towns, but over the years it has gradually declined. It''
''is still much admired for its mosque, near which is the tomb of Salman the Persian, an important companion of the Prophet. Al-Mada’in is also the site of the ancient ruins of Ctesiphon, the Persian imperial capital, and the ruins of the imperial palace still remain as witnesses to the passing of Sassanid power.''

==The Christian Monasteries==

''Downriver from al-Mada’in are three Nestorian Christian monasteries (adyar (ad-YAHR), sing. dayr) that are unknowingly interconnected. They each have their own unique features and are described as follows.''
''Dayr al-’Aqul''
''Located on the banks of the Tigris, the monastery of Dayr al-’Aqul is surrounded by a fairly large town of the same name, which includes a major mosque. Here the monks levy a toll from river traffic, which they share with the townsfolk, making it a major source of income for the town as a whole. However, recently the monks have noticed that rapid changes are taking place in the river’s banks, with the result that the river is gradually drawing away to the west, which means that they may soon be cut off from the source of their livelihood. All attempts to prevent these changes have failed, and both the monks and the townsfolk suspect that some supernatural force may be involved. They have been unable thus far to identify their enemy, but some suspect that the monks of the monastery of Dayr Qunna may in fact be foul sorcerers seeking the destruction of Dayr al-’Aqul.''
''Dayr Qunna''
''A mile to the east lies the monastery of Dayr Qunna, which is a large building with walls that are so strong and high that the monastery resembles a fortress. This is perhaps not entirely surprising, as the building is not actually a monastery but a bayt al''

[|

==Story Seeds for Al-Mada’in and Dayr al-Aqual==

''The Ruined Palace''
''The imperial palace at Ctesiphon is remarkable for the vaulted arch over the remains of what used to be the Persian emperor’s throne room, which is over 110 feet tall at its highest point. This is of great interest to practitioners of the Mystery of Hermetic Architecture (The Mysteries, pages 97–101). If a character seeks membership in such a cult, he might be asked to investigate the site as part of his Initiation. Otherwise, the characters might be asked to accompany a cult member to Ctesiphon on some pretext. Investigating the site presents its own challenges though, as the people are likely to be suspicious of foreign strangers poking around in the ruins of the palace.''
''The Enemies of Dayr al-’Aqul''
''Who is diverting the Tigris River? The characters get involved when they are caught in a sudden change of direction of the river, and are rescued by the monks of Dayr al-’Aqul. The sahirs of Dayr Qunna may be keen to restrict''
''the spread of the Dominion near their fortress, so they have a motive. In addition, if any of the sahirs have summoned spirits that are stronger than they can control, these may be trying to make trouble for their summoners. Alternatively, the culprit may be at Dayr Hizqil. Perhaps the monks there would like to claim the income from the toll levied on the Tigris traffic, in which case they may, with supernatural aid, be trying to cause trouble for either or both of the other monasteries. Or perhaps one of the inmates is to blame. Unbeknownst to the monks of Dayr Hizqil, the sahirs of Dayr Qunna recently dropped off at the madhouse one of their own who had summoned forces greater than he could control, which blasted his mind and destroyed his sanity; perhaps he has now attained enough coherence to seek revenge. Or maybe an enemy sorcerer is hiding at Dayr Hizqil, merely feigning insanity to allow him to direct magical attacks on Dayr al-’Aqul and Dayr Qunna. Finally, perhaps a demon or faerie is the one making trouble, thriving off the reactions of the mortals involved.''

|]
''hikma inhabited by members of the Suhhar Sulayman and their followers, posted here to keep an eye on the caliphs and posing as Nestorian monks in the meantime.''
''Dayr Hizqil''
''20 miles south of Dayr al-’Aqul is the town of al-Nu’maniyya, within which is the monastery of Dayr Hizqil. Here the monks maintain a madhouse, caring for those who have been afflicted with insanity. To work in such a place requires a strong mental and physical constitution, and the monks are mostly down-to-earth, brawny types who are well-capable of manhandling their charges if need be.''

==The Ruins of Babylon==

''“And you, Belshazzar his son, have not humbled your heart, even though you knew all this! You have exalted yourself against the Lord of heaven! The vessels of his temple have been brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives and your concubines have been drinking wine from them. You have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know; but the God in whose power is your very breath, and to whom belong all your ways, you have not honored.” […] That very night Belshazzar, the Chaldean king, was killed.''
''— The Bible, Daniel   5: 22–23 and 30''
''The city of Babylon, in southern Iraq, has been the site of many dramatic events of history. It witnessed the chaining of Harut and Marut, the angels who taught magic to humans and now hang bound beneath the ruined city; the building of the Tower of Babel; the exile of the Jews; the construction of the Hanging Gardens by Nebuchadnezzar; and the subsequent destruction of the city and Belshazzar’s kingdom by the Persians. As such, it is a site of great potential interest to explorers. More details on Babylon and its mysteries may be found in Ancient Magic, pages 12–15.''

[|

==The Epic of Gilgamesh==

''Of him who found out all things, I shall tell the land, Of him who experienced everything, I shall teach the whole. He searched lands everywhere. He who experienced the whole gained complete wisdom. He found out what was secret and uncovered what was hidden. He brought back a tale of times before the Flood. He had journeyed far and wide, weary and at last resigned, He engraved all toils on a memorial monument of stone. He had the wall of Uruk built, the sheepfold Of holiest Eanna, the pure treasury.  — The Epic of Gilgamesh,   Tablet 1''
''The ancient Mesopotamian Epic of Gilgamesh attained its final form in the eighth or seventh century BC, though it owes its origins to a variety of much older stories about the mythological king of the city of Uruk, who may be based on a real person who ruled two millennia earlier. It tells the tale of King Gilgamesh and his friend Enkidu, who adventure together until they are cruelly torn apart by the vengeance of the gods. There are actually three known major variants of the tale; the following is a very brief summary of the most popular version. King Gilgamesh of Uruk is an unpopular ruler, and the gods send him Enkidu, a wild man, to distract him. Enkidu is tamed by Shamhat the temple prostitute, and after a wrestling match in which neither wins, Gilgamesh and Enkidu become close friends. Seeking fame and honor, the pair go to the Pine Forest to slay the monster Humbaba. Upon return to Uruk, the goddess Ishtar tries to seduce Gilgamesh, but he rejects her. In a rage, she brings the destructive bull of heaven to attack Gilgamesh and Enkidu, but they slay it and insult Ishtar. The gods decide that the pair have gone too far and strike Enkidu with a fatal illness. The distraught Gilgamesh takes to''
''wandering in the wilderness. He makes it as far as the gate through the mountains that guard the sunrise, where he is permitted to pass by the humanoid scorpions that guard it. Beyond, he meets Siduri the alewife, who advises him to go home and make the most of this life, since the afterlife is nothing to look forward to. Gilgamesh is undeterred, and he obtains directions from Siduri to the abode of Utnapishtim, a mortal king who was made immortal by the gods after he survived the great flood. Gilgamesh fails to obtain immortality from Utnapishtim, and is instead forced to return to Uruk with only the wisdom that he has gained on his journey. This is sufficient to make him a good king. Characters who take on the role of Enkidu in this story, then, are doomed to die. This is something that may be known to some of the players, even though it is highly unlikely that any of the characters will know it. Any player who, despite knowing the fate that lies in store, still has her character adopt Enkidu’s role and allows the character to be killed not only achieves an Unmitigated Success in re-enacting the story, but should also receive an extra Confidence Point as a reward for bravery at the end of the session. Ancient Mesopotamians did not believe that death meant the complete end of existence, but rather that the human soul was transported to a dry, dusty underworld where the dead led a miserable, dreary existence: essentially a place devoid of vitality. To faeries, the deserted Temple of Uruk, abandoned by humans, is a symbol of such a place, and any character who has died as Enkidu thus finds himself sent through the Guardian portal back to the temple, alive and having gained whatever he sought. Storyguides may wish to draw out the suspense by having any companions of the dead character complete the remaining story of Gilgamesh’s travels before they also are returned to the temple, where they will find their apparently deceased comrade alive.''

|]

==The Cradle & The Crescent The Great Swamp==

''South of Babylon lies the Great Swamp, a marshy area that stretches between the two rivers until they join further south. Despite a noxious atmosphere and frequent plagues of insects, the swamp is dotted with villages and towns inhabited by determined souls who have managed to drain small patches of land and grow crops on them. Navigation through the swamp is primarily achieved using shallow-drafted boats. The inhabitants of these swamps are pagan followers of the old religion, although in the absence of a formal priesthood they have but fragments of their faith left to them. One tale they do know, and have faithfully recited for generations, is the Epic of Gilgamesh (see previous page).''
''The Ruins of Uruk''
''In the center of the Great Swamp rise the ruins of a mighty stepped ziggurat, all that remains of a great temple to the''
''goddess Ishtar. Local people stay clear of the site, since some of those who visited it have never returned. The temple has a Faerie aura of 2. In addition, explorers who break through a rubble-strewn doorway (actually a Faerie Guardian) find themselves inadvertently passing through an entrance to the Faerie Realm of Elysium. The Threshold Strength here is 33, but those who visit the temple and cross the doorway automatically accumulate the requisite number of Threshold Points (major border (12) + trod (the doorway, aura 5) + any temporal thresholds + any personal thresholds + any shortfall made up by the Guardian’s Spirit Away Faerie Power). See Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 18–21. Upon entering the Faerie Realm, characters encounter Gilgamesh, who seeks to make one or all of them identify with Enkidu, taking on his role in this tale; this sets them on the Path of Destiny (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 33). If they agree, Gilgamesh sends the characters out into the wilds, there to await the arrival of Shamhat.''

==The Whirlpool at Ubulla==

''On the north side of a canal leading into the Shatt al-’Arab lies the town of Ubulla, a busy settlement with palaces, mosques and markets. However, in the late eighth century the town was plagued by a vicious jinni, who took the form of a whirlpool in the Shatt al-’Arab and wrecked any ships that came within its reach, thus blocking the trade route between Baghdad and the Persian Gulf . The jinni was only defeated through the cleverness of Zubayda bint Ja’far, the wife of Harun al-Rashid. She discovered through her studies that the jinni in question was vulnerable to stone, so she had a large number of ships loaded with stones, floated to the whirlpool, and then sunk, filling the jinni’s maw and burying it in the riverbed, thus calming the waters and enabling ships to travel the Shatt al’Arab once more.''

==Basra==

''Located on two canals leading into the Shatt al-’Arab, Basra is an important city in southern Iraq. It contains numerous shrines and mosques, the best known of which is the mosque built by ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib, which has a minaret that shakes or remains still depending on whether an oath sworn before it is true or false. This is a miraculous effect, and cannot be fooled or resisted. Basra is also well-known for its library, which reputedly contains over 15,000 books.''

==Kutha==

''Within the town of Kutha stands an immense tower of solidified ashes, all that remains of a furnace built by the ancient tyrant King Nimrod, the builder who also built the Tower of Babel. Nimrod attempted to kill Abraham by hurling him into this furnace, despite the fact that Abraham was the son of his vizier Terah, but God commanded the flames to be cool, and Abraham walked out unharmed. Meanwhile, the furnace itself was consumed by the flames, and only the Tower of Ashes remains.''

==The Cradle & The Crescent Karbala’==

''Karbala’ is a site associated with a traumatic event in Muslim history, having witnessed the violent end to one of the first Shi’i revolts against the Umayyad dynasty. In 680 al-Husayn, the son of ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib and grandson of the Prophet, sought to advance his claim to the caliphate after the death of the caliph Mu’awiya. However, he and his followers were intercepted and slain at Karbala’ in the desert by Umayyad troops. This event sent an emotional shockwave through the Muslim world; this was, after all, the Prophet’s grandson. The event is still remembered with regret by all Muslims and particularly mourned by Shi’is, who hold ceremonies commemorating the event on the day of ‘Ashura’ ((‘ah-shoo-REH’), “the Tenth”), the 10th day of the Muslim month of Muharram (mu-HAR-ram). Karbala’ is now home to a small town, at the center of which is the tomb where al-Husayn’s body is interred (his head is in Cairo), which is a major place of pilgrimage for Shi’is. It takes the form of a domed shrine surrounded by a garden pool. The gateway of the shrine itself is made of silver, while inside the tomb is lit by golden and silver lamps. The other doorways in the shrine are closed off by curtains of silk. Pilgrims coming to the tomb kiss the silver gateway before entering to pray. The tomb has a Dominion aura of 8, and visitors may attempt to invoke baraka from al-Husayn’s tomb in the form of any of the following Saint Powers: Apparition, Acknowledgement of Evil, Expel Demons, Resist Temptation, Grant of Serenity, Straighten the Crippled, The Faithful Made Whole, Celestial Immunity, Mass Healing, Humility of Caesar, Terrify the Unbeliever. Al-Husayn has a Divine Might of 75. See Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 87–89 and 105, for further details.''

==Hilla==

''The city of Hilla occupies both sides of the Euphrates River, though its greater part is found on the western bank. The two sides are joined by a bridge of boats''
''held fast by great iron chains. Hilla contains a shrine where it is said that the twelfth imam will reappear at the end of time, so many Twelver Shi’is live here,''
''awaiting his return. Indeed, Hilla is a center of Twelver Shi’i scholarship, with many religious scholars making their homes in the city.''

[|

==Story Seeds for the Great Swamp==

''The Whirlpool at Ubulla''
''The jinni at Ubulla is imprisoned on the riverbed, but not slain. The characters get word of a group of sorcerers who are planning to free the creature and use it as a weapon with which to impose their will on the caliph. Should they try to prevent this directly, or should they try to warn the caliph, all the time knowing that the sorcerers back in Ubulla are gradually getting closer to achieving their goal?''
''The Thief of Basra''
''The characters catch someone stealing books on arcane lore from the library at Basra. The thief is taken to the minaret, and there his guilt is confirmed and he is sentenced to have his hand cut off. However, before the punishment is carried out, the thief tells the characters that he was only conducting the theft at the command of a sorcerer who is holding his family hostage. He begs them to gain proof of this so that his crime will be pardoned, as well as to rescue his family and keep them from harm. If the characters agree to help, the local chief qadi ((QAW-dee), “judge”) gives them a week to obtain the proof required. Of course, it may be that the thief is in fact lying, and there is no sorcerer or family, in which case the characters return from their wild goose chase only to discover that the thief has escaped and they are now responsible for tracking him down again. This may be a tricky task if the thief also has supernatural powers.''
''Nimrod’s Furnace''
''[Abraham] said: Worship ye then instead of Allah that which cannot profit you at all, nor harm you? Fie on you and all that ye worship instead of Allah! Have ye then no sense?''
''They cried: Burn him and stand by your gods, if ye will be doing. We said: O fire, be coolness and peace for Abraham, And they wished to set a snare for him, but We made them the greater losers. And We rescued him and Lot (and brought them) to the land which We have blessed for (all) peoples.''
''— The Qur’an 21: 66–71''
''The furnace was originally dedicated to the powers of Hell, and was home to a fiery demon. However, direct intervention from God on Abraham’s behalf made it into a holy object and trapped the demon inside to quell the flames. Now, a cabal of corrupted individuals seek to light the fires of Nimrod’s Furnace once more, a feat that can only be achieved by weakening of the faith of Kutha’s inhabitants, followed by profaning the testament to Abraham’s miracle by burning holy men to death within it.''
''The Scholars of Hilla''
''The characters are contacted by a powerful but physically disabled Shi’i sahirs, who asks them to travel to Hilla on his behalf and seek the wisdom of a scholar named Muhammad ibn Muhammad, who makes his home there, providing the characters with a list of questions that they must ask him. However, it quickly becomes clear that there are three scholars with this name in the town, all of whom have wildly varying responses to the questions, and also that relations between these scholars are intensely hostile due to their theological differences. The characters will have to spend a considerable amount of time, and no small amount of tact and diplomatic energy, to gather all three scholars’ answers without upsetting any of them (by clearly associating with either of his rivals) and causing them to become uncooperative.''

|]

==Najaf==

''The city of Najaf is of immense importance to Shi’is, as it contains the tomb of ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib. As described earlier, ‘Ali was killed in 661, an event which took place in Kufa. As he died, he instructed that his body should be put on a camel, which should be turned loose, then followed; where the camel knelt was where he should be buried. This was done, and for a long time his''
''supporters kept the location of his grave secret, fearing that the Umayyads might desecrate the site if they found it. However, in 791 the ‘Abbasid caliph Harun al-Rashid was hunting nearby, and he chased a deer into a thicket and then discovered that neither his horse nor his hounds could enter the spot. He made his servants dig in the thicket, and when they discovered the corpse of ‘Ali he ordered a tomb to be built on the spot. This tomb has been refurbished and expanded''
''over the years, and it is now an ornate structure that forms the focal point of the city and sees visits from thousands of pilgrims every year. Najaf is also home to an immense graveyard, where several prophets and numerous important Shi’i nobles are buried. There are also several madrasas, mosques, and other religious institutions here. The shrine of ‘Ali takes the form of a gold-domed structure, on each side of which is a monumental portal with a sil''

[|

==Ighraq al-Siq==

''Ighraq al-Siq (“the drowning flood of the gorge”) is an ancient pagan spirit of the Tigris, now confined to a gorge on the lower or Lesser Zab, a tributary of the Tigris (also called Majnun, “the mad river”) from its impetuous currents. Once able to range freely along the length of the river, he is currently confined to a specific stretch in the lower reaches known as the Siq al-Majnun, or sometimes just “the Jinni’s Gorge”. He is responsible for the paroxysmal Spring flooding through this narrow canyon. This immediate canyon area has a Magic Aura of 6.''

==Ighraq al-Siq==

''Magic Might: 40 Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +9, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –3 Size: +5 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit, Jinni; Magical Monster; Ways of the River; Improved Characteristics x2, Large, Second Sight, Water Lore; Wrathful (Major); Infamous (the mad river), Poor Memory. Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Crafter of Water), Greater Powers x5 (Drown, Presence, Transform into Floodwave), Lesser Powers (Donning the Corporeal Veil, Presence), Ritual Power x3 (Grant Water Lore, Grant Wilding); Huge x3, Improved Might x 5, Improved Powers x5; Ma''
''jor Flaw: Blatant Magical Air, Limited Movement, Major Flaw: Restriction (confined to the Majnun canyon on the Lesser Zab); Minor Flaw: Baneful Circumstances (not touching water), Minor Flaw: Restricted Power (only use Drown in Floodwave form), Minor Flaw: Restricted Power (only use Grant Wilding to individuals with existing score in Water Lore), Minor Flaw: Slow Power (Transform into Floodwave), Minor Flaw: Slow Power (Donning the Corporeal Veil). Personality Traits: Wrathful +5, Proud +3, Fickle +2, Flood +3* (Essential Trait) Reputation: Mad river 4 (local) Combat: Bludgeon*: (in floodwave form) Init -3, Attack +8, Defense +2, Damage +11 Lance: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +2, Damage +16 Soak: +6 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Arabic 2 (water), Aramaic 5 (water),Area Lore: Tigris 5 (floods), Area Lore: Zab 6 (history), Brawl 6 (bludgeon), Great Weapon 3 (lance), Penetration 4 (wards), Second Sight 4 (jinn), Swim 6 (leaping out of the water), Theology: Islam 2 (jinn), Water Lore 6 (rivers). Powers: Crafter of Water, 1–8 points, Init 0, Aquam: Duplicates any non-Ritual''
''Creo Aquam or Rego Aquam spell less than or equal to 40th level at the cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the effect. Ighraq al-Siq can use the Water-way Range (equivalent to Sight) and Body-of-water target (equivalent to Structure) when invoking this power, being able to target anyone or anything on or in his part of the river or affecting the Zab as a whole (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 43). CrAq 40 or ReAq 40: Focus Power (3 mastery points to increase level by 15). Drown, 0 points, Init –2, Aquam: In Floodwave form only, Ighraq alSiq can engulf a target whose Size is smaller than his own after a successful melee attack in an attempt to drown it, necessitating a roll to avoid deprivation (ArM5, pages 180–181). The victim can attempt to escape from his clutches each round using the Grappling rules (ArM5, page 174). (30 levels, 3 Intricacy points spent on reduced Might, 1 point on Initiative) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 2 points, Init +1 (affected by the Slow Power Flaw, takes an additional round of preparation to activate), Corpus; 35 levels: Ighraq al-Siq can form the humanoid body described under Appearance to house his spiritual form; when doing so he acquires the physical characteristics, size, combat statistics, and Wound levels listed earlier. His arms''

|]
''ver doorstep. It is richly decorated with glazed tiles, thick carpets and gold and silver lamps. The doorways are covered with silk curtains, and silk hangings also adorn the walls inside the structure. The actual tomb itself is surrounded by a railing made of engraved gold plates held together with silver nails. The Dominion aura in the shrine has a score of 8, and visitors may pray for baraka from ‘Ali to invoke any of the following Saint Powers: Acknowledgment of Evil, Apparition,''
''Celestial Immunity, Cure Blindness, Expel Demons, Grant of Serenity, Mass Healing, Resist Temptation, Straighten the Crippled, The Faithful Made Whole, Humility of Caesar, Rebuke the Unfaithful, and Terrify the Unbeliever. The shrine is particularly well known for healing miracles, so attempts to invoke Saint Powers of this type enjoy a +1 bonus. ‘Ali has a Divine Might of 75. See Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 87–89, for more.''

==Kufa==

''About seven miles northeast of Najaf lies the city of Kufa. This used to be a vibrant settlement, but recently it has declined and much of the city is in ruins; although in the eastern part of the town the Great Mosque of Kufa remains in good condition. This is the mosque where ‘Ali was mortally wounded by his killer, and the site of the attack is marked by a mihrab that has been built on the spot. Kufa''

[|

==Ighraq al-Siq (cont’d)==

''and amor are also created with this power. He cannot become fatigued. This body lasts until he decides he no longer needs it. Killing the body does not kill Ighraq al-Siq. Grant Water Lore, 5 points, Qik –13, Vim: Ighraq can grant the Minor Mystery Virtue Water Lore to an individual either temporarily or permanently. Characters granted this Virtue could improve it further through Adventure, Exposure or Experience like any other Nature Lore (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 103– 104). The Source Quality of Ighraq’s canyon is normally 4 but magi able to persuade the malevolent jinni to teach them can use the normal Teaching rules as an exception to the usual rule — in this case Ighraq’s effective Source Quality is 9. Grant Wilding, 10 points, Qik –23, Vim: Ighraq can grant the Major Mystery Virtue Wilding to an individual with an existing Water Lore score either temporarily or permanently (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 105–106). Presence, 0 points, constant, Mentem: Once released, Ighraq al-Siq is aware of everything that goes on within his haunt. This power needs to Penetrate to perceive beings with a Magic Resistance. (35 levels, 3 Mastery points spent on reduced Might) Transform into Floodwave, 4 points Init –4 (affected by the Slow Power Flaw,''
''takes an additional round of preparation to activate), Aquam: Ighraq alSiq can transform into a floodwave, seemingly drawing on the water of the stream to appear as an elemental. (45 levels) Vis: 2 pawns of Aquam vis can be collected every year from his haunt, in the form of clear rainwater that collects within a niche carved into the stone block that imprisons him. If slain in a physical form or dispersed in elemental, his body yields 8 pawns of Aquam vis within perfectly smooth stones of varied hue. Appearance: Ighraq al-Siq appears as a thin giant with blue-green complexion and straggly green-black hair like water weeds. He carries a large spear and is clad in a vest of watersmoothed stones. Once manifested, this humanoid form can disperse into his preferred elemental form, a floodwave carrying a hail of stones that can travel upriver or downriver along a watercourse as a marauding torrent. The effect of a Deluge of Rushing and Dashing when invoked within the narrow confines of the gorge is particularly devastating.''
''Story Seed: Jinni Blocks''
''Since ancient times the spirit Ighraq al-Siq has been trapped inside a Jinni Block — a type of unusual tower tomb''
''placed at the entrances to the ruins of some lost cities. The process may be similar to the Goetic Art of Binding, but an unknown effect triggered by intrusion into the Majnun canyon area releases Ighraq al-Siq from his imprisonment and compels him to drive off intruders. While trapped within the block, Ighraq al-Siq is essentially unable to affect his surroundings in any way and cannot be detected by magic, as he becomes part of the native stone. The stone block is granted the jinni’s Magic Resistance, but can still be eroded and broken by the elements and other nonmagical attacks. Over time, the area immediately surrounding the block has become a fixed Arcane Connection to the spirit, providing a +1 bonus to the Penetration multiplier and replacing his original physical locus. A character who actually stands barefoot on top or touches the prison block is considered to have a stronger Arcane Connection to Ighraq al-Siq, gaining a +3 Penetration multiplier bonus, and also gains the benefit of the entrapped spirit’s Magic Resistance. A sahir, summoner, or Hermetic magus can use his magic to attempt to command Ighraq al-Siq using scouring (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 117) or Sihr by standing within the vicinity of the Jinni Block even if he is unaware of his presence. A failed attempt at controlling him, however, will trigger his release and invoke his displeasure.''

|]
''continues to be visited by Shi’i pilgrims, usually on the way to or from Najaf.''

==The Jazira==

''To the north of Iraq lies the Jazira. Like Iraq, this is mostly a fertile area where agriculture flourishes. Much of the region is ruled by the Ayyubids, who currently spend much of their time intriguing against each other, with the result that those cities that are not ruled directly by them are able to assert their independence, only acknowledging their authority in name. Most of the rulers here, including the Ayyubids, acknowledge the ultimate authority of the caliph, although again this has little real impact on them.''

==Mosul==

''Mosul lies on the east bank of the Tigris, opposite the remains of the ancient city of Nineveh. Since 1128 the city has been held by members of the Zangid (ZANG-gid) family, whose progenitor, ‘Imad al-Din Zangi (d. 1146) is best known for having taken Edessa from the crusaders in 1144. Currently Mosul is effectively ruled by a Mamluk regent, Badr al-Din Lu’Lu’, ruling on the behalf of the emir al-Qahir Mahmud and acknowledging Ayyubid overlordship. Mosul is defended by a double wall, a strong citadel and, on the east side, the Tigris itself. Outside the walls are suburbs and fertile gardens, while a wide north-south road runs through the city itself. Many of the houses are built of marble. Mosul con''
''tains numerous important religious sites, including mosques housing the tombs of Jonah and St. George (who is also a prophet in Islam), a healing spring, a squash tree planted by the Prophet himself, and several madrasas and Christian monasteries. The population here consists of a mixture of Muslims, Christians and Yazidis (on the last, see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 136). Mosul is particularly well known for its textiles. Indeed, it is from the name of the city that the word “muslin” is derived.''

==Barqa’id==

''The city of Barqa’id is avoided by travelers, for it is populated almost entirely by thieves who rob unwitting visitors and prey on caravans passing it''

[|

==Story Seeds for Kufa and the Jazira==

''The House of Ibn Muljam''
''As indicated in Chapter 2, ‘Ali was killed by a political opponent with a poisoned sword. His killer, named ‘Abd alRahman ibn Muljam, was subsequently executed. However, his sword was taken away by associates and buried in a house where he secretly stayed while he was in Kufa, in which it has subsequently spread an Infernal taint while also becoming an object binding ‘Abd al-Rahman’s ghost to the site. Since then the house has changed hands many times; because of the uncomfortable feeling there, and the many household accidents that occur, it has been labeled as cursed, although the locals do not know why. The house finally passes into the hands of a friend of the characters who has enough insight to realize that there are supernatural forces at work, and he contacts them to ask for their help in discovering and removing the cause of the troubles. However, by the time the characters reach Kufa the spirit has become strong enough to possess their friend. Can they remove the taint and defeat the ghost without harming him?''
''Tensions in Mosul''
''The people of Mosul follow a righteous path, doing pious works. You will meet none of them but has a cheerful countenance and a soft word. They are generous to strangers, receiving them kindly, and using justness in all their dealings with them.''
''— Muhammad ibn Jubayr (d. 1217), Travels''
''The characters are contacted by a magus or sahir who recently traveled to Mosul. The wizard in question, having read the travelogue of Ibn Jubayr, decided to investigate and see if the legendary kindness of the people of the city had a supernatural cause. However, his magical experiments in the city have gone awry, and he has inadvertently set the people against each other, so that civil war is brewing. The wizard has the Blatant Gift, impeding his ability to defuse the tension, so he asks the characters to come and act as mediators between the hostile factions while also helping him to cancel the effects of his magical meddling.''
''Against the City of Thieves''
''The characters are victims of a raid conducted by the people of Barqa’id, and their victory over the thieves is witnessed by the inhabitants of a local village, who offer them succor. When they arrive at the village they find themselves welcomed like heroes, and it quickly becomes evident that the people are expecting them to destroy Barqa’id and rid them of their oppressors. How will the characters respond to these expectations?''
''The Battle for Nasibin''
''Nasibin is actually the site of an invisible battle for souls between an angel and a demon, of which the outward manifestations are the roses and the scorpions. So far, the battle between the two has reached only a stalemate, but either party might decide to try and enlist the aid of the characters. If the characters are taken in by the appeals of the demon, either succumbing to promises of rewards or mistaking the disguised demon for an angel, they may unwittingly find themselves aiding the cause of Hell.''

|]
''on the road to Nasibin. As a result of its ever-worsening reputation, and the consequent reduction in the number of travelers passing near it, its inhabitants have become ever bolder in their atrocities, attacking other nearby towns and villages, to the point that their victims have appealed to the rulers of Mosul and Nasibin for help; however, each ruler has refused, claiming that it is the other’s responsibility and leaving the people to fend for themselves.''

==Nasibin==

''An important center of Nestorian Christian scholarship and the seat of a bishop, the city of Nasibin is home to a mixed population of Christians and Muslims. It is famous for its gardens, said to be 40,000 in number and blessed with unusually large and fragrant white roses, but also for its scorpions, which deliver a particularly venomous sting and fill the city in great numbers.''
''The Astrologers of Nasibin''
''For most of the history of the Suhhar Sulayman, Nasibin was home to a great bayt al-hikma known as the House of the Heavens, the seat of the great family of Solomonic astrologers called the Ashab al-Najm. This was a series of five large buildings carved from white stone and placed around a central building that housed an observatory with an astrolabe, with a great procession of statues in the courtyard between them fashioned to represent each of the ancient Babylonian figures associated with the planets and zodiacal constellations. In the year 1186, however, a fascinating event occurred. It is said that soon after the vizier representing Nasibin and the Asala al-Najm returned to the bayt from that year’s Majlis, they and all of the other sahirs of the city departed in a mass exodus. Some of them had made arrangements and had their possessions ready to transport, while others simply set down their work and left whatever they were doing unfinished. This depar''
''ture occurred just before the end of summer, and astrologers have calculated that at about that time all seven planets were in the sign of Libra, a rare event that indicates powerful celestial influence in acts of subtlety, independence, and the assistance of others. Neither the Asala nor the vizier who once led the House of the Heavens have been heard from since, and so have never explained this strange direction the great house suddenly took, but there are now many groups of sahirs who tell different stories and give different reasons. The predominant belief is that they scattered to better assist Salah al-Din in the Battle of Hattin and the recapture of Jerusalem in 1187, though others say they acted to put a plan into place that would remove Rashid al-Din Sinan of the Syrian Nizaris (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia, The Nizari Isma’ili State). All of the remaining sahirs from Nasibin now travel in roving caravans across the Mythic Middle East, each occasionally stopping in one place or another when the stars seem right. Their mobile laboratories are still more common in Jazira than other regions, being closest to where they came from. Meriq, the current Asala (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia, Savah) maintains that their family bayt is still located in Nasibin, even though no one currently lives there, and supposes that those who left must eventually return there one day.''

==Mount Judi==

''Mount Judi is believed by the Muslims to be the final resting place of the Ark of Noah. The mountain is topped by a mosque marking the spot, and at its foot lies the city of Thamanin (“eighty”), said to have been founded by eighty of Noah’s companions, whose inhabitants claim descent from this illustrious group.''

==Amid==

''The black basalt city of Amid has been massively fortified by its Turkish overlords with thick walls, multiple watchtowers and iron gates. The central portion of the town includes a high hill upon which is built the citadel. Outside of this wall lie the suburbs of the city, again enclosed by fortified wall. The city is home to several religious buildings, including both a major Sunni mosque and a great Jacobite church, both of which are built of black basalt and iron and are renowned for their beauty. The over-fortification of Amid is the result of repeated attacks on the city made over the centuries by immense armies of Faerie creatures, wielding wood and stone weapons and clad in an ancient and unknown form of leather armor. The precise reason for these attacks is unclear, though''

[|

==Mount Judi and Mount Ararat==

''And it was said: O earth! Swallow thy water and, O sky! Be cleared of clouds! And the water was made to subside. And the commandment was fulfilled. And (the ship) came to rest upon al-Judi and it was said: A far removal for wrongdoing folk!''
''— The Qur’an 11: 44''
''And in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, the ark came to rest on the mountains of Ararat.''
''— The Bible, Genesis 8: 4''
''According to the Bible, Noah’s ark came to rest upon Mount Ararat''
''in Armenia, something that accords with Christian and Jewish belief, but contradicts Islamic belief. In fact, both groups are right in a sense: the remains of the ark are in a regio that may be reached from either mountain. On Mount Judi it is possible to enter the resting place of the ark from the mosque; characters have merely to walk through the mihrab, even though it appears to be made of solid marble, in order to be transported there. For more on Mount Ararat and the resting place of Noah’s ark see Ancient Magic, pages 70–73.''

|]
''they always take place on the spring equinox. The people of the city have become fatalistically used to preparing for these attacks on a regular basis. On the other hand, the shared foe has proved to be a factor that has led to extremely good relations between the Muslims and Christians of the city.''

==Raqqa and the Battlefield of Siffin==

''Once a residence of the caliph Harun al-Rashid, Raqqa is enjoying something of a resurgence under the Ayyubids. Its markets are flourishing, and it is famous for its blue-glazed ceramics. Meanwhile,''
''on the opposite side of the Euphrates from the city is the site of the Battle of Siffin, which was fought between ‘Ali ibn Abi Talib and Mu’awiya ibn Abi Sufyan in 657. After several months of skirmishing, Mu’awiya asked his opponent for resolution of their dispute by arbitrators. ‘Ali agreed, but some of his followers did not and so abandoned him; Ibn Muljam, who slew ‘Ali, was an adherent of this dissenting group. The supporters of ‘Ali who died in the battle are buried here, and it is possible to see through the ground to their uncorrupted bodies from afar. However, when one comes to the places where they lie, the bodies may no longer be seen. The battlefield is a place of holy pilgrimage for Shi’is.''

==Harran==

''Currently ruled by the Ayyubids, the city of Harran has an ancient pedigree as the dwelling place of Abraham, and later as the first center of the scholarly movement that began translating many works of Classical scholarship into Arabic in the eighth century. About nine miles south of the city is a shrine marking where Abraham and Sarah dwelled. Harran is also famous as having been the center of a cult of monotheistic star-magicians known as the Sabians, who were first encountered by the Muslims in the ninth century; they are said to have since died out, but some may still exist, posing as Muslims to avoid harassment. Harran is also home to a prominent cult dedicated to the Ashshur, patron god of the Assyrians.''

==Edessa==

''The city of Edessa has changed hands many times in its history, having been held variously by the Byzantines, the Muslims, and others. In 1098 it was taken by the crusaders, who made it the capital of one of their four states. However, as noted previously, on Christmas Eve 1144 it was conquered by Zangi, and it is currently under the control of the Ayyubid sultan of Aleppo, al-’Aziz (r. 1216–1236). The majority of the population are Christians of various churches, and its chief claim to fame used to be a Christian relic, the Holy Mandylion — a cloth bearing an image of Christ’s face that was sent by him to King Abgar of Edessa. However, this relic was given to the Byzantine Emperor in exchange for prisoners by the Muslim rulers of Edessa in the tenth century, and then lost when the crusaders sacked Constantinople in 1204. What became of the relic remains unknown, but the people of Edessa hope it will be miraculously restored to them someday.''

==The Sanjah Bridge==

''Crossing the River Sanjah, a tributary of the Euphrates, is an exceptionally well-made bridge, consisting over a single''
''arch over 200 paces long, made from huge blocks of dressed stone. This was constructed in ancient times by a sorcerer''
''working for a local ruler, who was aided by a talisman that he carried. The talisman is now implanted in an arch at the crown''
''of the bridge. No one knows exactly what its function is, nor what would happen if it were to be removed.''

[|

==More Story Seeds for the Jazira==

''The Death of Tenik''
''In ancient times there were two chieftains named Tigran and Vasdes. Tigran ruled a village on the site of Amid, while Vasdes ruled another village nearby. One night, Tigran raided the village of Vasdes and took the latter’s wife, Tenik, hostage. The following night, the night of the spring equinox, Vasdes led his troops out to rescue his wife and take revenge on Tigran, but Tenik, who wished to prevent further bloodshed, threw herself between the two warbands in an attempt to halt the fighting, meeting an accidental death under her husband’s already-swinging club. Horrified, both men called a halt to the conflict and resolved their differences. The Faeries at Amid seek to re-enact the conflict of Tigran and Vasdes, but they are unable to bring it to its final resolution due to human ignorance of the story. In the meantime, their army, the Faerie manifestation of the warband of Vasdes, has grown as Amid has grown, with the result that it continues to be a threat to the city. The characters learn of the story from a Faerie that lives nearby and realize that the conflict may be brought to an end if someone takes the role of Tenik and falls under Vasdes’ axe. Yet how may this be achieved without someone having to die?''
''The Dead of Siffin''
''The identity of one of the corpses buried at Siffin causes concern for the characters. Perhaps the one of the bodies, from a distance, looks like an ancestor of a character, in which case, why is the ancestor here among the dead? Did an ancestor of the character travel here and become involved in the fighting between ‘Ali and Mu’awiya? If the ancestor was in the region for a significant amount of time the character may have''
''other, unknown relatives in the region, waiting to be found. This has even more interesting implications if the character in question is Gifted; perhaps there is a whole magical lineage to which she is related. Alternatively, maybe the cause for concern is a corpse that, from a distance, resembles a still-living character or one of the characters’ associates. Is this a warning of some sort, a premonition of the future? Of course, with both storylines the characters will need to find ways to observe the corpse in question more closely, to ensure that they are not merely seeing a coincidental resemblance. This can probably be achieved using magic either to gain a closer view of the body or to mark the grave so that they may disinter the corpse. Of course, if they do the latter, they will have to ensure that they are unobserved by people who might object to them disturbing the site.''
''The Heat Is On''
''This is a town with no beauty about it. It has no shade to mitigate its feverish heat, and its climate follows from its name (harran, “hot”). Its water bears no acquaintance with freshness, and its squares and outskirts never cease to burn from the heat of its midday sun. No noontime place of rest will you find there, and you will breathe no air that is not heavy. Thrown into the naked waste, it has been founded in the midst of the wilderness and, without the brightness of a city, its shoulders have been stripped of the clothing of verdure.''
''— Muhammad ibn Jubayr (d. 1217), Travels''
''Why is Harran so unusually hot? The characters discover that the growing heat in the town is the work of remnants of the Sabian magi, who hope that by making the city inhospitable they may drive''
''away the population, leaving it an empty site that they may excavate for ancient treasures of their tradition and in which they may resurrect their cult. This desire to reclaim the site may find sympathetic ears among the characters, since Hermetic magi often have mixed feelings about similar mundane encroachment on magical sites. The magi may be tempted to aid the Sabians in their efforts, or they may seek to arrange some sort of compromise that allows them to practice their magic while leaving the local populace undisturbed.''
''The Holy Mandylion''
''The Image of Edessa (as the Holy Mandylion is called by the West) is now in possession of Otto de la Roche, the crusader Duke of Athens, not only one of the most powerful mundanes in the Theban Tribunal, but now virtually invincible thanks to this powerful relic. For his persecution of the orthodox clergy, the pope has recently excommunicated de la Roche (see The Sundered Eagle, Chapter 5: Athens, and 9: Relics of Constantinople). The characters are somehow motivated to return the relic to Edessa; perhaps they are hired by an Armenian nobleman (or magus), or else it is necessary to defeat a great evil that threatens Edessa.''
''The Missing Talisman''
''The characters are approached by representatives of the villages around the Sanjah Bridge. The talisman has been stolen, and the bridge is starting to crumble at a supernaturally fast rate. The local villagers depend on the bridge to allow them to transport crops to market. Can the characters track down the thief? Even if they do, can they restore the talisman’s magical effect before the bridge collapses completely?''

|]

==Arzanjan==

''The bustling market town of Arzanjan is mostly populated by Armenian Christians. It is famous for the quality of the various pieces of work produced by its crafters, with pride of place going to its brass-smiths, who produce works of remarkable beauty in shapes unattainable by the brass-smiths of other towns.''

==Azarbayjan==

''Azarbayjan is a mountainous province to the north of the Jazira. Both it and the province of Arran to the north are nominally ruled by a dynasty known as the Ata''
''begs (A-ta-begz) of Azarbayjan, the current head of which is Muzaffar al-Din Uzbek (r. 1210–1225), who rules from Tabriz. Uzbek’s rule lies lightly on his domain; much of it is left in the hands of local governors, and Uzbek himself both acknowledges the overlordship of the Khwarizm-Shah and pays tribute to the king of Georgia. The population of Azarbayjan is incredibly diverse. Ethnically, it includes Turkic peoples, Persians, and people from the Caucasus, while its religious tapestry includes a broad mix of Muslims, Christians, Jews, Zoroastrians, and followers of other religions. As a result of its terrain, communities are very scattered and its major centers are little more than large towns. The lingua franca of the region is a Turkic language, though most of the people also speak local dialects.''

==Lake Urmiya==

''Taking its name from the town on its western shore, Lake Urmiya is a startling shade of blue and smooth as glass. At its center is a small island inhabited by fishermen, who catch the strange dog-headed fish that inhabit the lake. In ancient times this island was home to a powerful sorcerer who conducted experiments on these fish, but an explosion triggered by a failed experiment destroyed most of the tower, including its master, though catacombs remain beneath the ruins. The residue of the sorcerer’s magical activities and the natural beauty of the setting have left the lake with a Magic aura of 2, rising to 3 on the island.''

==Maragha==

''The city of Maragha seems to enjoy the favor of some supernatural entity, for it is surrounded by flourishing orchards that produce a strange type of melon, green-skinned with red flesh, that tastes like honey. In addition, the sky is always clear here, so the city is favored by astronomers who enjoy the opportunity to study the heavens without having to rely on good weather.''

==Gilan==

''The province of Gilan is a relative backwater in the Muslim world, not being particularly rich or famous. Most of it is mountainous and covered with jungle, but the coastal plain is fertile, and the people who live here grow various crops including rice and wheat. The local rulers of Gilan pay tribute to the rulers of Jibal, to the south, but are otherwise broadly left alone to rule the province independently. The emir of Gilan has been forced into a political alliance with the leader of the Nizari Isma’ili (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia).''

[|

==Playing an Arzanjani Brass-Smith==

''Arzanjani brass-smithshave a magical talent that allows them to manipulate brass by hand, enabling them to produce exceptional pieces of work. This is represented by the Minor Supernatural Virtue Lesser Power (Realms of Power: Magic, page 45), which is gained through guild Initiation. The Initiation Script to gain this power always includes the Minor Personality Flaw Vow (guild loyalty). Mechanics for Initiation can be found in The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 8–16. Organization Lore: Arzanjani BrassSmiths’ Guild may be used in place of (Mystery Cult) Lore in this instance.''
''Crafter of Brass''
''1 Fatigue level, Init equal to (Qik – 6), Terram R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind A piece of brass touched by the user of this power becomes supple to the touch, so that it can be reshaped into a different form. This does not enable the smith to fuse pieces together, so she must still carefully cut out the basic shapes of the objects to be made. However, it does enable an imaginative smith to create pieces of great intricacy and beauty.''
''ReTe 15 (base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +1 for intricacy): Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost)''
''A character may begin the game with this Virtue, in which case she should also take the Vow Flaw and a score of 1 in Organization Lore: Arzanjani Brasscrafters’ Guild. She should also consider taking Flaws that represent the experiences of her Initiation.''
''Story Seed: To Learn the Craft''
''A magus of House Verditius is intrigued to learn about the powers of Arzanjani brass-smiths and sends the characters to find out more. He particularly encourages one of the characters (perhaps a filius) to learn the Mystery, so that they may later examine its similarities to aspects of Verditius Magic. However, in order to achieve this the characters will have to persuade the elders of the Arzanjani BrassSmiths’ Guild to initiate one of them, including convincing them that their secret will not be shared with the world at large.''

|]

==The Cradle & The Crescent Barvan==

''Barvan is the major city of Gilan and is notable only for its bad reputation, being said to have no good houses or markets. It also does not possess a major congregational mosque, although a number of minor mosques do exist. The Dominion aura in the city is unusually low, with a score of only 1.''

==Mukan==

''Most of the province of Mukan consists of a swampy plain stretching from the mountains in the northwest portion of the province to the Caspian Sea. Much of this area is cultivated, with rice and wheat being particular crops grown here.''

==Bajarvan==

''One of the chief cities of Mukan is Bajarvan, which while a modest settlement enjoys its fame through proximity to the source of the Water of Life, which is said to be near the town. However, no one has yet managed to find the fountain, or if they have, they have not returned to tell the tale.''

==Arran==

''As noted earlier, the province of Arran is ruled by the Atabegs of Azarbayjan, though their actual involvement here is minimal. The majority of the population follows Armenian Christianity, but there is also a significant Sunni Muslim community here, including most members of the ruling classes.''

==Baylaqan==

''The most important city in Arran is Baylaqan, which stands in a river valley supplied by several streams, with the result that the town has many mills, as well as''

[|

==Story Seeds for Azarbayjan and Gilan==

''The Sorcerer’s Tower''
''The secluded tower at Lake Urmiya could be a good site for a new covenant. Alternatively, it also provides a great excuse for an old-fashioned dungeon crawl, should the players feel nostalgic for the early days of roleplaying. In both cases, given that the sorcerer clearly bred the hybrid dog-fish found in the lake, it is more than likely that the tower and the tunnels below it house all sorts of hybrid monstrosities that may oppose or welcome the characters, depending on the needs of your saga.''
''Dim Skies and Rotten Fruit''
''An unheard-of thing happens: the skies above Maragha become cloudy. At the same time, the melon crop fails suddenly, going rancid overnight. The player characters are asked to investigate, and they soon discover that the town has fallen out of favor with the''
''supernatural entity that up until now ensured its prosperity. The question is, what act by the populace has earned the creature’s enmity, and how may it be appeased?''
''To Build a Mosque''
''Some of the people of Barvan would like to see a major mosque built in the city, both to provide a gathering point for the people and to improve the town’s reputation, but the governor is not of particularly pious inclination and would rather spend his money on worldly pleasures. In addition, the most logical way to build such a mosque would be through the expansion of one of the existing mosques, but the townsfolk cannot agree on which mosque to expand. The characters are prevailed upon to act as external mediators both with the governor and between the leaders in the various mosques. Can they come up with a solution that will please everyone?''

==Khidr and the Water of Life==

''Khidr (the Green One) is an important Muslim prophet. He is said to be immortal, having drunk or dived into the Water of Life, which he found by means of a shining jewel brought from Paradise by the prophet Adam. According to some stories, he and Alexander the Great sought the Water of Life together, crossing a dark land to find it. Alexander, however, became lost, so that only Khidr actually reached the goal of their quest. Khidr wanders the world giving advice wherever God directs him; indeed, he is believed to have given guidance to all the prophets who have lived since his birth, with the exception of Muhammad, who instead tutored Khidr. Khidr has power over the sky, the sea and all plant life, and is a''
''particularly important figure to the Sufis, who see him as the epitome of the Sufi shaykh. Khidr usually appears as a venerable Muslim in a woolen cloak. As a result of diving into the Water of Life, his skin and clothes are a bluishgreen color. Khidr is best used as a mysterious adviser to the player characters. He is unlikely to reveal his true identity to them, and at times he will give advice that seems bizarre and unreasonable, although it will always be proved correct in the end (see Moses and Khidr, later). Should the characters wish to find the Water of Life — which purportedly grants immortality to those who bathe in it — they need to seek his guidance, though he will only help them in this if their intentions are pure.''

|]
''flourishing gardens and orchards. However, this idyllic setting has recently become the site of discord, as the citizens are divided about how to treat a popular preacher who raves about a “storm gathering in the east” that will soon engulf its people. Some wish to lock him up or even have him executed, while others hail him as a seer.''

==Shirvan==

''To the north of Arran and Mukan lies the province of Shirvan, a mountainous region with a number of towns dotting the valleys. For centuries the province has''
''been ruled by a Persianized Arab dynasty known as the Shirvanshahs (shir-VEHNSHAHZ), who rule from their capital at Shamakhi. Currently power is shared between two members of the royal family: Farrukhzad I ibn Manuchihr III (r. after 1187–before 1225) and his son Garshasp I (r. 1204–1225). The majority of the inhabitants of Shirvan are either Sunni Muslims, like their rulers, or Christians.''

==Shamakhi==

''The royal capital of Shamakhi consists of a town built entirely of stone, situated at the foot of a mountain and surrounded by''
''gardens. Like Bajarvan, Shamakhi claims to be near to the source of the Water of Life, so it may be that explorers should start their search at the junction of the Cyrus and Araxes rivers. Shamakhi also possesses the Rock of Moses, which marks the spot where Moses met Khidr. A fish placed upon this rock by Moses and his servant came to life and swam away, and local people still come to the spot to pray for the healing of those languishing near death. For Muslims the rock is a relic with a Faith score of 3 and the Saint Power The Faithful Made Whole; see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 43–46 and 88.''

==Georgia==

''The Christian kingdom of Georgia is, strictly speaking, outside the Muslim world, but its independence from Muslim rule is recent and hard won. Invaded by the Muslims in the 7th century, then embroiled in centuries of warfare with Muslim overlords, Georgia finally won independence in 1121 when King Dawid II (r. 1073–1125) took the capital of Tiflis, which remains the''

[|

==The Fate of Baylaqan==

''The seer of Baylaqan is indeed correct, for in 1220 the Mongols descend on Baylaqan and destroy it. According to sources, since they are unable to find suitable rocks nearby for their mangonels, the Mongols cut down plane trees, saw their trunks into chunks, and use these''
''as ammunition when they attack the city walls. They then pillage the city and burn it to the ground. Depending on when your saga is set, characters may arrive here either just in time to help fight the Mongols or after the conquest, in which case they may be asked to help rebuild.''

==Moses and Khidr==

''Then found they one of Our slaves, unto whom We had given mercy from Us, and had taught him knowledge from Our presence. Moses said unto him: May I follow thee, to the end that thou mayst teach me right conduct of that which thou hast been taught? He said: Lo! thou canst not bear with me. How canst thou bear with that whereof thou canst not compass any knowledge? Moses said: Allah willing, thou shalt find me patient and I shall not in aught gainsay thee. He said: Well, if thou go with me, ask me not concerning aught till I myself make mention of it unto thee.''
''— The Qur’an 18: 65-70''
''According to the Qur’an, when Moses and his servant met al-Khidr, Moses asked if he could follow the prophet and learn from him. Khidr initially suggested that Moses would not be able to accept his actions without protesting, and eventually only allowed Moses to follow him when he agreed not to do so. Khidr then led Moses to a boat, which he scuttled. Moses protested, but Khidr reminded him of their agreement and Moses agreed to keep silent. The same thing happened when Khidr slew a young boy, and again when he built a wall near a city where some people had refused to give them food. After Moses’ third protest, Khidr explained his actions: The boat belonged to people who depended on it for their livelihood, but there was a coming a king who was taking possession of the boats of his people,''
''so by rendering the boat unusable Khidr saved it from being taken. The boy, unlike his parents, was not a believer in Islam, so Khidr slew him so that they might get a better child (according to tradition, they gave birth to a daughter who was the progenitor of many prophets). The wall hid treasure that belonged to two orphans in the city, so by building it up Khidr was protecting it until they should be old enough to claim it. Moses and Khidr then parted ways. The story of Moses and Khidr is a lesson in unquestioning obedience that might prove a useful model for Mystery Cult Initiations your saga. Magi might be required to follow a Mystagogue, keeping silent in the face of apparently bizarre acts. Sufis take the story as a model for the relationship of a Sufi student with his master.''

|]
''capital of the state today. The current king is Giorgi IV Lasha (r. 1213-1223). Georgia is a country of mountains, hills and plateaux, with lowland areas only on the coast of the Black Sea and the valleys of the rivers Rioni and Kura. It is inhabited by a number of different peoples, including Turks, Persians, Georgians, Armenians and Alans. There are both Christians and Muslims among its population, although the dominant faith is its own national Christian church, which owes loyalty neither to the Pope in Rome nor the Byzantine Emperor.''

==Tiflis==

''Located on major trade routes, including the Silk Road, and itself a major trade center, Tiflis is a city of great importance in the region. As a result it has been hotly contested over the centuries, and this is reflected in its fortifications, which include double walls and three heavily reinforced gates. Despite this history of hostility between groups, Tiflis’ population is remarkably ethnically and religiously diverse and tolerant, and mosques, churches and synagogues exist at times literally next to each other in the city.''

==Greater Armenia==

''To the east of Asia Minor, and to the southwest of Georgia, lies the war-torn state of Greater Armenia. It is a land of''
''mountains, high plains and valley basins. Its climate is very severe, with winters often lasting for over eight months. The country was conquered by the Muslims in the seventh century but managed to become an independent, tributary state in the mid-ninth century. However, soon it was torn by wars between the Muslims and the Byzantines, and in the tenth Century many Armenians migrated to Lesser (Cilician) Armenia in Asia Minor. Greater Armenia fell to the Turks in the 11th century and remains a contested area, for the Ayyubids''
''have annexed some of its southern territories; the Byzantine Comneni retain part of it under the control of their empire at Trebizond, to the northwest; and the rest lies in the hands of local dynasties. The population of Greater Armenia is mixed, consisting mainly of Greek and Armenian Christians and Turkish Muslims. They grow cereal crops, fish in the rivers, and mine various metals and minerals, including silver and salt. The area is also known for its weaving, dyeing, and embroidery.''

[|

==Story Seed: Sorcery, Treason, and Plot==

''The characters prevent a magical murder attempt made on the King of Georgia, and they are charged to bring the perpetrator to justice. It is clear that magic was involved in the attempt (perhaps a character saved the king from a bolt of magical lightning), which makes the need to find the person behind it all the more urgent. If a Hermetic magus was responsible, then he is guilty''
''of breaking the Code’s prohibition on mundane interference, although a tribunal must determine whether he has brought ruin on his sodales and thus liable for censure. On the other hand, if it was not a Hermetic magus, then it was clearly someone with power that might be a threat to the Order of Hermes, in which case the investigation is all the more necessary.''

==A Greater Armenian Covenant==

''Greater Armenia offers an attractive location for an Hermetic covenant, with its numerous isolated sites that have resisted mundane encroachment and may preserve high-level Magical auras. In addition, the chaotic politics of the region makes it easy to establish an independent presence, provided that the characters do not become so powerful as to pose a threat to neighboring political leaders.''
''On the other hand, setting up a covenant in the area is not without its challenges. The severe climate makes a covenant difficult to supply and support. In addition, as the current tribunals reach their limits in terms of how many Hermetic magi they can support, other magi may also be looking to set up covenants in the region and may challenge characters for the best sites.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
