''Ahlan wa sahlan! Welcome to The Cradle and the Crescent, the guide to the Mythic Middle East for Ars Magica Fifth Edition. This book explores a part of the Mythic world beyond the control of the Order of Hermes, including the lands known in the modern day as the “cradle of civilization,” from which our earliest records of human civilization stem — the lands to the east of the Hermetic Tribunal of the Levant, lands known in Europe only through occasional accounts of pilgrims and other travelers, supplemented by a multitude of (at times wild) rumors and speculations. In this book we present this region as a setting for Ars Magica sagas. We describe the geography and history of the area, including in particular many of its mystical sites and supernatural denizens. ­We also give particular attentio­n to Mythic Middle Eastern magic, the jinn, Mythic Zoroastrianism, and the Suhhar Sulayman that is also known as the Order of Suleiman.''

==How to Use This Book==

''This book is intended as a full-blown setting for sagas and adventures, with the expectation that it will be a source for stories set within the region. The text assumes that there is no existing Hermetic presence in the area but, throughout the book, you will find story seeds that are intended to draw Hermetic magi and their followers away from their covenants and lead them to the lands of the Middle East. The following are just some of the possibilities that this book offers to players of Ars Magica sagas. First, you may simply use the rules''
''here to develop exotic characters to supplement your covenant’s membership, be they spirit-summoning sahirs, impetuous jinn, or mysterious Zoroastrian mobeds (see Chapters 3, 4, and 5, respectively). Second, this book provides tools for you to build an exotic story arc, or exciting adventures set in the region or the supernatural realms it contacts, as a diversion from a conventional Europe-based saga. You may also choose to use the information on Middle Eastern magic and the Order of Suleiman to develop powerful non-Hermetic antagonists or allies for your saga. Alternatively, you may wish to set your entire saga in the region, in the form of a new covenant of Hermetic magi striking out into lands previously unexplored by the Order, encountering the various challenges and magical traditions of the area. Finally, and most adventurously, you can cast Hermetic magi aside entirely, playing a group of Middle Eastern mages and their companions seeking to make a name for themselves, and immersing your troupe entirely in the region. We have not given full details on every place, creature, or supernatural item found within this book. We have given suggested statistics for some of these, but in many cases the precise statistics will depend on the power level of your saga. Thus our main emphasis has been on providing the legends and stories that may be used as inspiration.''

==On the Setting==

''In the minds of the people of Mythic Europe, the Middle East is a distant and strange place, home to all manner of monsters, spirits, sorcerers, and kings — full''
''of great wonders for those who are brave enough to seek them out. This book reflects this perception by heightening the level of supernatural activity in the region. Most people of the Mythic Middle East have no less respect for the supernatural than do their counterparts in the West, but they are also much more used to encountering such elements. By adopting this vision of the region we will frequently be doing violence to the historical realities of the period, though many of the supernatural elements that we mention are based on beliefs and ideas expressed in historical sources from the time. However, it is important to remember that this is not a book on Middle Eastern history; it is instead a supplement for the Ars Magica roleplaying game that merely draws inspiration from the historical texts.''

==Strangers in Foreign Lands==

''Broadly speaking, characters who are members of other faiths living under Islam follow the usual guidelines for character creation, although very few are members of the nobility, and none may be members of the religious classes. Many Christians living under Islam are involved in the civil administration, while many Jews are merchants. The Jews are, for the most part, orthodox Rabbinites, though some Karaites do still live in the region. The Exilarch — the spiritual head of the Jewish community — lives in Baghdad, making it an important city for the Jews, at least in theory. The situation with regard to the Christians is rather more complex, as there are a large number of different Christian groups living in the region covered by this book.''
''Melkites (Greek Orthodox) are most often found in Byzantine territory and the Levant, but there are some scattered communities further east, left over from the days when the Byzantines controlled territories in the northern Jazira, Armenia, and Georgia. Jacobites (Syrian Orthodox) are most often found in Syria and the Holy Land, but some Jacobites may be found in Arabia. Ethiopian Christianity has made some inroads into southwestern Arabia. The Church of the East (Nestorian Christianity) is most significantly represented in Iraq and Persia, outside of the former Roman and Byzantine empires. Tensions among these various branches of Christianity and Judaism, and indeed among different groups of Muslim and Zoroastrian believers as well, could lead to stories as members of different factions attempt to employ the characters in order to gain an advantage over their rivals. Schisms over points of doctrine can easily flare up into violence, especially if supernatural forces become involved. Almost all non-Muslim characters living under Muslim rule must also take the Minor General Flaw Dhimmi (DHIMme), described at the end of ths chapter. Exceptions tend to be those outside the social order, and hence beyond or beneath the notice of the Muslim authorities. Hermetic magi are the most obvious examples of such exceptions.''

==Social Structure==

''The nominal head of the Muslim world, at least for Sunnis, is the caliph in Baghdad. Serving him (at least theoreti''
''cally) are the governors of various territories known as sultans (sul-TAWNZ). Both the caliph and these rulers are served by viziers, who run their civil and military administration for them. Beneath the caliph,''
''sultans, and viziers are three main classes involved in running society: the military elite, the civil elite, and the religious elite (also called the ‘ulama’ (‘u-la-MEH’), “the erudite,” sing.‘alim (‘EH-lim)). Each class is arranged in an approximate hierarchy, though not in such a rigid fashion as in Europe. There are several other groups in Islamic society. The peasants, or fallahun (fal-leh-HOON), work the land, much like European peasants. They are free subjects of the ruler, not bound to the land in the way that some European peasants are. Merchants ply their trade in cities. The Muslim world is home to many who follow a number of other faiths, including Christians and Jews. These people are designated in Islamic law as ahl al-kitab (AHL-ul-ki-TEHB), “the people of the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Muslim Views of Europeans==

''Muslim relations with the Europeans, whom they call ifranj (i-FRANJ) or Franks, regardless of country of origin, are best described as mixed. Some Muslims are openly hostile towards ifranj, particularly during periods of conflict, but others have established more friendly relations. Some rulers find they benefit from diplomatic and mercantile''
''contact with the European states, and one even occasionally finds Muslim and European rulers allying with one another against other Muslim or European rulers. Those Muslims who have had closer contact with Europeans tell tales of strange and unfathomable customs and practices that make little sense to the Muslim mind.''

|}

==The Mythic Middle East in Ars Magica==

''This is not the first supplement to deal with topics Middle Eastern, and players may find it helpful to consult other Ars Magica supplements when running sagas that make use of the material contained herein. This section lists the supplements that contain significant content pertaining to the Middle East.''
''Realms of Power: The Divine''
''This is the most important supplement in this regard, containing information on both the mundane and supernatural characteristics of the three major monotheistic faiths, all of which have their origins in the greater Middle Eastern region, either the Holy Land, within the Tribunal of the Levant, or Arabia, far beyond its borders, and all of which have members who live in the area covered by this supplement. The rules presented on character creation are also of particular use, especially for generating Muslim and Jewish characters from the Middle East.''
''Realms of Power: The Infernal''
''This book also provides much information that will be useful for Middle Eastern sagas. In addition, it contains some background information on the Jinn (page 26) and includes rules that may be used to create infernally corrupted Jinn. It also gives information on the Mazzikim, a group of demons that include some infernal Jinn in their ranks (page 73), and describes a demoness who masquerades as a jinniyya (Aqrab the Conjuror, pages 58-59). A Zoroastrian demon, Naonhaithya, is also detailed (pages 73-74). In addition, it details a Middle Eastern Infernal tradition, the Mulhidun (pages 136-137), who are found principally in the Jazira.''
''Realms of Power: Magic''
''This book contains rules that may be used to create Magical Jinn, includ''
''ing some commentary on these creatures (pages 106-107 in particular).''
''Realms of Power: Faerie''
''This book contains information that may be used to create Faerie Jinn and those who deal with them. It also contains examples of Middle Eastern faeries, Lamashtu (page 64-65) and the Ghula (page 72); describes how to create characters with Ghula Blood (page 106); and provides various suggestions for incorporating elements from Middle Eastern folk tales into Ars Magica sagas.''
''The Mysteries Revised Edition''
''This book includes a number of mysteries that draw on the magical traditions of the Middle East. These include Hermetic Alchemy (pages 39-46) and Hermetic Astrology (pages 47-57), and a journey to the east could form an appropriate part of an Initiation Script for both the Order of the Green Cockerel and the Magoi of the Star. By the same token, the Legion of Mithras (pages 11822), should it ever decide to explore its possible links to ancient Zoroastrianism, could require Initiates to travel to Persia to investigate as an Initiation Quest.''
''Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults''
''This book includes brief information on the Keepers of Tales, a Merinita subtradition originating in the Middle East (pages 81-82). It also presents the Criamon Path of Walking Backwards, which was inspired by Sufi mysticism, along with information on its founder, the Primus Abdkypris (pages 56 and 70-73).''
''Houses of Hermes: Societates''
''The description of the Hermetic sahirs in Houses of Hermes: Societates, while concerning itself with an Iberian tradi''
''tion of Islamic magi, also includes information on the Jinn, including a sample character, Wahhab (pages 133-136).''
''Ancient Magic''
''This book describes some of the magical secrets that might be found in the region covered by this book, including the language of Adam, ancient Babylon, the Garden of Eden and Cain (pages 10-29); a source of Grigori magic on Mount Ararat (pages 70-73) and the Altars of Alexander the Great (page 125). Information on some of the naming conventions used in the Middle East may also be found (page 46). On more on names, see also Appendix A in this book.''
''Hedge Magic Revised Edition''
''This book describes two traditions of Islamic elementalists, the Ikhwan al-Safa’ and the Tulab ibn Sina (pages 28-32). Middle Eastern counterparts to Folk Witches (pages 33-53), Learned Magicians (see pages 79-99) and Mythic Alchemists (page 100) are possible with only minor modifications to fit an Islamic setting. Characters descended from nomadic shamans of the northern steppe tribes or deep deserts of Arabia may be represented by the rules for Nightwalkers (pages 102-118).''
''Rival Magic''
''This book gives details about Soqotra, an island in the Gulf of Aden south of Yemen ruled by non-Hermetic sorcerers and their magical tree spirit companions. This book also details the Amazons and their magical tradition descended from Trianoma’s sister Veia — the warrior women are based on an island in the Sea of Khazars (the Caspian Sea) but hunting parties may have ranged into Khwarazm or further. Both groups may be potential allies or enemies in sagas set in the Mythic Middle East.''
''book,” and are permitted to live in Muslim lands as long as they accept the status of dhimmis. The subject peoples are required to pay a special poll tax, the jizya (JIZ-ya), and to abide by a number of restrictions in society, including refraining from bearing arms, riding animals with saddles, building new places of worship, or attempting to convert others to their faith. Their ability to testify in court is restricted, and the value of their testimony is less than that of Muslim men. Sometimes they are also required to wear distinctive dress. How strictly these restrictions are actually enforced varies from ruler to ruler.''

==Islam & Islamic Law==

''Islam is both a religion and a social contract, and so the law humans should use to regulate their lives is contained in its teachings. There are a number of sources Muslims use for this law, which is called in Arabic al-shari’a (ash-sha-REE-‘a).''
''Crime and Punishment''
''The shari’a divides crimes into three main categories:''
''• Deliberate killing or wounding, giving the victim or their family the right to exact vengeance, under the control of the authorities. In some cases, vengeance can be replaced by a ransom. • Accidental killing or wounding, dealt with by financial settlement. • Five major crimes, dealt with using canonical penalties called hudud (huDOOD). They include theft (punished by cutting off the right hand), brigandage (death, if a murder involved; otherwise as theft), adultery (stoning or flogging), false accusation of adultery (flogging), and use of alcohol (flogging).''
''Some other crimes also incur severe penalties. For example, apostasy is punished by death. Less serious offenses are punished with a verbal reprimand. Islamic law often requires a number of witnesses to a crime, making it difficult to impose penalties without adequate proof and moderating the more severe penalties somewhat. Magic is permitted in Islam, as long as it is used for good purposes. Use of magic for evil purposes, on the other hand, is punishable by beheading. Thus, while Dominion auras generated by Muslims affect magic as normal, the attitude of the Muslim inhabitants of these auras toward practitioners of magic is likely to be more nuanced. In par''
''ticular, an accusation of use of evil magic is likely to be subject to the same legal processes as any other alleged crime.''
''The Pillars of Islam''
''The Muslim life is encapsulated in five basic duties, known as arkan al-islam (ar-KEHN-ul-is-LEHM), or the pillars of Islam. These are as follows:''
''• Shahada (sha-HEH-da), or testimony: Muslims witness to their faith through two statements, which signify conversion to the faith. These are “la ilaha illa Allah” (there is no god except God) and “Muhammadun rasul Allah” (Muhammad is the messenger of God). These are repeated regularly as part of the ritual prayers. • Salat (sa-LAWT), or prayer: Muslims must perform ritual prayer five times every day, at fixed times. • Zakat (za-KEHT), or alms-tax: All Muslims who are able are required to give a portion of their wealth as charity. Exactly where it is actually directed varies, depending on the political and social situations in any given place. • Sawm (SOWM), or fasting: All ablebodied Muslims are required to fast during Ramadan (ra-ma-DAWN), the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Unholy Trinity==

''Medieval European Christians had many misconceptions about Islam, perhaps the most common of which was that Muslims worshiped an unholy trinity composed of three deities known as Mahound, Termagant, and Apollyon. In Ars Magica these three figures are demons of the Order of False Gods (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 37), who seek to foment hostility between Christians and Muslims. They may be found operating anywhere within Europe or the Middle East, whispering their vicious lies into the ears of any who might listen. Like most False Gods, the demons usually take forms that will appeal to their listeners. In their original forms, though, they appear as follows:''
''• The demon Mahound takes the form of a grotesque parody of a monotheistic prophet, clothing itself in fine robes of green silk and gold, and leering at those around it. It has immense ears, intended to mock the fact that such prophets heard the divine revelation. • Termagant takes the form of a hag with an incredibly wrinkled face and bulging eyes, literally spitting venom at any who oppose it. It has sharp, jagged fingernails with which it claws at its opponents’ eyes. • Apollyon appears on first glance to be a twisted parody of the GrecoRoman Apollo, a hunchbacked, hideously ugly blond man with a lyre,''
''dressed only in an oversized, ill-fitting golden cloak. The cloak drips with acid and the lyre produces jangling dissonances that set teeth on edge and paralyze the senses.''
''This unholy trinity might form a suitable arch-enemy in a saga, particularly one that draws characters from western Mythic Europe into the lands of the Mythic Middle East and involves characters with both Christian and Muslim friends and allies. Characters are likely to spend much of their time promoting friendly relations between these groups while seeking to track down and combat those who are nurturing discord.''

|}
''ninth month of the Muslim year and the month when Muhammad first began to receive the revelation. Fasting is undertaken from sunrise to sunset, and includes abstention from food, drink and sexual activity. • Hajj (HADJ), or pilgrimage: All Muslims who are able are required to make the major pilgrimage to Mecca at least once during their lives. Further details on the hajj are given in the section on the Hijaz in the Mecca section (See Chapter 6: Mythic Arabia).''
''Each pillar has associated mechanical effects, detailed further in Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 106-108.''
''Mosques''
''Mosques serve several purposes, for in addition to prayer one finds other activities taking place in them, including public orations, readings of the Qur’an, Sufi rituals, and religious festivals. A mosque generally takes the form of an open central space, usually a courtyard or hall, surrounded on three sides by a pillared arcade and on the fourth side, which is the one closest to Mecca, by an open, pillared hall. In the wall closest to Mecca there is a mihrab (MIH-rahb), or prayer niche, which indicates the way which worshipers should face when praying, and a minbar (MIN-bar), or pulpit, from which sermons are preached. A mosque also often has a water source for ablutions, fre''
''quently in the form of a fountain or pool in the courtyard. Mosques have a Dominion aura that varies in power according to their size and importance. Most mosques have a Dominion aura of 4, while major, famous mosques will usually have auras of 5, though this may increase by a point or two if relics are kept in them. The auras of mosques increase if prayer is performed in them or if those inside are performing the Ramadan fast.''

==Building Sagas==

''The Mythic Middle East is a settting that’s ripe for long-running Ars Magica sagas. Encourage your player characters to build a new Hermetic covenant in these lands, explore conflict and alliances between the wizards in a mixed group of Hermetic magi and sahirs, or make all your characters members of the Order of Suleiman and their servants. The Mythic Middle East awaits you!''

==Founding a Covenant in the Mythic Middle East==

''Founding a Hermetic covenant in the potentially hostile lands of the Mythic Middle East creates a challenging starting scenario. While perhaps better suited for more experienced troupes, this option adds the elements of direct potential magical confrontation, isolation from the wider Order, and the tantalizing option of nonHermetic integration and discovery into a conventional beginning. Combining great freedom with great danger, such Sagas would rely heavily on cooperation among individual magi to survive and prosper. A group of Seeker magi from various backgrounds looking to delve into the ancient non-Hermetic mysteries of the cradle of civilization would be an example of this. An isolated area, such as the deeper deserts (see Chapter 6: Mythic Arabia and Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia) or the less-settled eastern provinces (see Chapter 9: On the Silk Road), may be the most suitable location for a Hermetic colony.''
''Founding a Chapter House''
''Similar to founding a new covenant, but relying on the tradition begun in the Greater Alps and prevalent in the Rhine, this option is perhaps more attainable for a starting troupe. Sponsorship by one of the established Greater Alps covenants, one of the domus magna, or perhaps the highly resourced and expansionistic Fengheld covenant of the Rhine would be a prerequisite. This scenario trades off some of the danger and isolation by sacrificing freedom — having the young magi beholden to the politics and agendas of senior magi and the wider Order in what is an unstable and charged region. The chapter house may act as an offensive bridgehead, an embassy to the Order of Suleiman, a trading post, an original research base, a translation school or a combination of these ideas. For an existing European saga, this option provides an introduction to the Mythic Middle East and the potential for long-term play without requiring too much initial commitment or research on the part of the storyguide or players. This scenario is dependent on some form of constant link between the Hermetic colony and the motherhouse such as a Mercere Portal, although such a gateway creates a large security liability should the covenant’s defenses be breached.''
''Itinerant Covenants''
''This choice reflects a group of mobile magi and provides almost unlimited choice of adventures and the opportunity to fully explore the material contained in this book. The lack of a permanent settlement may create issues for Hermetic magi heavily interested in laboratory work, and both mundane and supernatural security issues come to the fore. This scenario may work best for a more low-magic style saga where the stories are predominantly companion-based or require magi with more diplomacy than magical firepower. The covenant may be posing as simple merchants, acting as an advanced reconnaissance party for the Order, or pursuing another explicit magical goal that requires travel through the Mythic Middle''
''East. The Itineris Serica covenant (see sidebar in Chapter 9: On the Silk Road) details a suggestion for a Seeker covenant dedicated to discovering the mythical land of Serica, at the end of the fabled Silk Route.''
''Joining a House of Wisdom''
''Perhaps the most complex and provocative of Hermetic-based scenarios, in this option a small group of magi join an existing bayt al-hikma (“House of Wisdom,” pl. buyut) of agreeable sahirs. As the Houses of Wisdom are places of teaching as well as gathering places for unGifted sahirs, Gifted magi may be welcome as fellow scholars if they agree to respect their culture and laws of their hosts. Such an inter-Order community creates numerous tensions and conflicts, although it is possible that the group may be able to cooperate and prosper despite the consid''
''erable external pressures and initial differences. Magical techniques may be compared and traded, although teaching the Parma Magica to an outsider would spark a violent Wizard’s War and March against the traitors unless the sahirs agreed to join one of the Societates or Mystery Cults of the Order first.''

==Tales of Two Orders==

''There are several scenarios that could potentially involve Hermetic magi with their Order of Suleiman counterparts in the Mythic Middle East, ranging from overt conflict or guerilla warfare, to uneasy standoff, through to diplomatic overtures and peaceful cooperation and alliance. See Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman for further details on sahirs and their culture.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Soft Places: Tales into the Supernatural==

''The Thousand and One Nights tells of Baluqiya, son of the once-Jewish king of Cairo, who traveled far beyond the mortal world. Led by the mythical jinniyya known as the Queen of Serpents, the prince walked across seas, over mountains, and through deserts to magical lands and kingdoms ruled by giants and jinn alike. Criamon magi believe that this oral legend, like their own Travels of Fedoso, is an allegorical description of a journey into the Magic Realm to outside the Circle of Time. Merinita magi of the Keepers of Tales cult disagree, claiming that the White Lands, Mountains of Qaf, and other countries alluded to in the myth lie within the Faerie realm, bordering on or being part of Jinnistan. Jinn of all Realms act as guardians, guides, and sponsors of such stories and are integral to journeys into these mystical locales. Whatever the truth behind such tales, the Mythic Middle East abounds with portals both physical and metaphorical into the supernatural Realms of Faerie and Magic. Golden Baghdad lies as a Faerie reflection of the mundane city,''
''swarming with characters from the tales and folklore of the region. Merchants ply trade routes that cross supernatural borders and return with fabulous treasures from fantastic and mysterious lands. Rumors abound of portals into Faerie or the Magic Realm contained within the books containing the various tales — whether this represents a non-Hermetic ritual effect instilled by the sorcerers among the jinn or if the books are actually an unusual form of faery acting as Threshold Guardians is unclear. In the Mythic Middle East, the characters of the Arabian Nights are not just stories — they are woven into the everyday landscape. The player characters in turn are the threads that weave themselves into the fabric of the existing tales adding highlights and accents. This book is the loom on which you, the storyguide, can create a tapestry of adventure to rival the greatest adventures of Haroun al-Raschid, Sinbad and Mar’auf the Cobbler. See Chapter 4: The Jinn for more details on the jinn and their lands.''

|}
''The Hermetic Crusades''
''The conflict between medieval Christendom and Islam is not completely confined to the Levant and Egypt. Hermetic magi have become aware of the Order of Suleiman through the supernatural actions of individual Syrian sahirs in battles between the invading Franks and the local forces of Salah al-Din. Seeking to trace back this threat to its source, more aggressive Hermetic magi may seek to penetrate behind the battle lines to combat their perceived enemies on their home turf. Others may seek out the legendary armies of Prester John said to dwell far to the east, or search for allies among the encroaching Mongol horde. Even now, a major war against the Order of Hermes may be brewing.''
''The Followers of the Circle Return''
''Although isolated from their eastern brethren since the early tenth century, the Hermetic sahirs of Iberia have not forgotten their origins, even if their knowledge of Solomonic Magic has long since faded beneath the protection of the Code of Hermes. Younger Iberian sahirs opposed to the reconquest of their lands by the northern Christian principalities may seek out their lost eastern brethren for support or magical weapons to use in the war to defend Andalusia from the vengeful scions of Alfonso the Battler and Flambeau the Founder. The successful involvement of the Order of Suleiman in the Iberian conflict would have wide-reaching consequences for the relationship between the''
''two Orders, potentially precluding any attempts at peace for decades to come.''
''An Hermetic Embassy?''
''In 1220, a new danger breaks in the east — the latest in a wave of nomadic hordes from the mysterious steppes. Led by the mysterious figure known as Genghis Khan, the Mongols first begin their assault on eastern Islam but reports of their savagery begin to filter back to western Mythic Europe. Despite their differences, the Order of Hermes and the Solomonic magi may see the threat of the encroaching Mongols as great enough to force an alliance, at least temporarily. Such enforced cooperation and intermingling may have profound effects on the culture, magic and future of the two great supernatural organizations of Mythic Europe. Will such an uneasy truce last long enough to stave off the nomad threat?''

==Magi of a Different Order==

''Although the majority of material in this book is designed for use with Hermetic magi as the protagonists, the various resources can all be used to support a saga where the magi are sahirs of the Order of Suleiman detailed in Chapter 3. The default option for this is a group of sahirs using a common bayt al-hikma as the equivalent of a “covenant” and meeting place, although Gifted sahirs may live apart from their fellows in a separate location that''
''forms the equivalent of a chapter house. Baghdad alone has several hundred sahirs who congregate and meet in at least half a dozen buyut, although only a few hundred live within the actual city limits. The “covenfolk” can include both the mundane and magical servants of the sahirs, as well as associated Middle Eastern hedge magicians visiting or studying at the site, adapting the rules in Covenants. As a collective of powerful individual wizards with different magic and personalities, the members of a bayt al-hikma can engage in all the potential activities, challenges, squabbles, and adventures that would be encountered in a conventional Hermetic saga. As the majority of sahirs lack The Gift and are less interested in laboratory activities, such a saga might involve a greater degree of interaction with the mundane world and more high fantasy, adventurebased story arcs. Opponents and challenges to such a group of non-Hermetic magi could be based around local threats, including the splinter Nizari assassins, devious jinn, the Mongol hordes, or the political machinations of the feuding dynasties of the region. Alternatively, the sahirs may venture further afield into western Mythic Europe and participate in stories where they interact with Hermetic magi, European Faeries, and the Christian church. See “The Middle East in Ars Magica” insert later and Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman for further resources for playing a fully non-Hermetic Saga.''
''Thus spoke Zarathustra ...''
''The descendants of the Zoroastrian priests that once dominated Persian politics and magic are now a scattered handful of wizards in danger of extinction. Zoroastrian magi form a small mystery cult of holy magi within the Order of Hermes and a handful of sahirs still quietly follow the ancient Mazdean faith. Isolated villages of faithful cling to their customs amidst persecution and distrust within the wider medieval Caliphate. A disparate collective of Zoroastrian wizards from different backgrounds and across Mythic Europe may attempt to unite their shattered faith by establishing a community under their combined protective magic (see Chapter''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==War on Two Fronts?==

''The requirements on a member of the Order of Suleiman are less strict than those of the Order of Hermes, requiring only the demonstration of some form of summoning power. However, although the Code may permit joining the Order of Suleiman, any Hermetic magi undertaking a second oath may be viewed with extreme suspicion. Likewise, although non-Hermetic sahirs''
''may find sponsorship into House Ex Miscellanea, they will face opposition from hostile Hermetic elements such as House Flambeau and even their lost cousins, the Hermetic sahirs of Iberia. Thus despite being able to achieve internal harmony, such a group of mixed magi may find itself ostracized by both Orders, facing powerful enemies on two separate fronts.''

|}
''5: Mythic Zoroastrianism for details on non-Hermetic mobed wizards and their faith). Will they establish a new homeland for their people to shelter from the forces of Ahriman or be tempted to establish a base from which to re-carve the former greatness of their pre-Islamic empire?''
''Holy Knives of Alamut''
''The Nizari sect of assassins has one goal in mind: the institution of an Isma’ili state through the elimination of the Shi’a and Sunni rulers. They show remarkable adaptability in the pursuit of this goal, employing whatever tools come to hand: religious zealots willing to die for their masters, their own peculiar brand of magic, diplomacy at the point of a knife, and perhaps even the Order of Hermes. To the Nizaris, the Order of Suleiman is part of the problem and, much as they have helped the Crusaders against the occupying forces of Jerusalem, they might be prepared to help Hermetic magi against their sahir enemies. If this means that the Nizaris first have to convince the Order that it has sahir enemies, the sect is not beyond manufacturing situations to persuade them of this. If the Order still seems reluctant, the Nizaris might attempt to directly coerce individuals by kidnapping and extortion; of course, this might drive the Order towards allying with the sahirs against a Nizari threat. One thing is sure: with the Nizaris involved, blood will be spilled (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia for more details on the medieval Nizari assassins).''

==Characters==

''Mythic Middle Eastern characters, be they rural or urban in origin, are generated in the same way as other characters but some Virtues and Flaws require renaming or minor alterations. They have access to some additional Virtues and Flaws, as well. Finally, two new Academic Knowledges are also described: Theology: Islam and Islamic Law.''

==Virtues==

''Educated (Islamic)''
''Minor, General The character has been educated in a mosque or Qur’an school. The 50 experience points should be spent on some or all of Arabic, Persian, Greek, Latin, Theology: Islam, Islamic Law and Artes Liberales, due to a different education “system.”''

==Flaws==

''Dhimmi''
''Minor, General The character is a non-Muslim born under Muslim rule. If he is adult and male, he must pay the jizya, and all dhimmis''
''must abide by certain social restrictions (described earlier), in return for which they receive tolerance and protection from the Muslim authorities. The Judged Unfairly or Outsider flaws are more appropriate for European-born characters who travel through Muslim lands or permanently settle in the Mythic Middle East.''

==New Abilities==

''Islamic Law*''
''Academic This is the Muslim version of Civil & Canon Law. The major sources of Islamic Law are the Qur’an and the Sunna. Specialties: any one of the sources of Islamic Law, particular topics, customs of a particular area.''
''Theology: Islam*''
''Academic This is the Islamic equivalent of Christian Theology. The major sources for Islamic theology are the Qur’an and the Sunna. Specialties: the Qur’an, debates, history, prophets.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
