''Throughout the years since the founding of the Order of Hermes, magi have spoken of the danger that Arabian wizards present, calling them “The Order of Suleiman” and whispering how they seek to bring about the ruin of Hermetic magi. Some speculate that these stories were started by followers of Flambeau the Founder, or perhaps by others opposed to the introduction of similar wizards in Iberia and elsewhere in Europe into House Ex Miscellanea. In any case, the idea that an organized group of Middle Eastern sorcerers exists and plots against them is very common among magi. They are right. Of course, this “Order of Suleiman” is not exactly what magi fear it is, though it does pose a grave threat to those who they consider their enemies. It is composed of sahirs, usually unGifted Muslim summoners who wield magic spells and devices similar to their Hermetic counterparts, and who command jinn or other spirits in battle. Their animosity toward the Order of Hermes is fairly recent, as for most of their existence they have been an introverted group, generally devoted to the growth of Islamic culture. Since the start of the Crusades, however, these powerful sorcerers have become more dangerous, and have turned their eyes upon Europe. Sahirs are designed primarily as adversaries for magi exploring the Mythic Middle East, though it is also possible to play them as player characters in a saga with a Middle Eastern focus.''

==History==

''13th-century sahirs believe their powers originated in the marvels wielded by Solomon (Suleiman), King of Israel,''
''prophet, and builder of the first temple in Jerusalem. It is said he commanded hosts of jinn and other spirits, could speak with animals and the elements, and possessed magical devices that focused his power over the supernatural world. Among sahirs, tradition holds that the great king learned many of these secrets from a mysterious sage known as Al-Khidr (“The Green Man”), a legendary figure who, according to the Qur’an, taught Moses, traveled with Alexander the Great, and attained immortality by drinking from the Water of Life. In the years after Solomon many claimed to possess his powers, and some could indeed summon up spirits and speak with beasts as he was said to have done. The Art of Solomon did not die out but, as the years passed, groups of sorcerers began to practice dark and corrupted versions of his power — some say this Infernal version was initially spread by a pair of angels named Harut and Marut tasked with this as a test of mankind’s faith — that allowed sorcerers to summon and enslave spirits to their will. Other traditions developed educated and more refined forms of summoning that allowed them to command the elements, animals, and nature as Solomon was said to have done. In Persia especially, this latter version of the Art flourished under the influence of Zoroastrian priests, who perceived its practice as learned and wise. The birth of Islam changed the Mythic Middle East dramatically. Some sahirs believe that the great caliph Ali ibn Abi Talib, friend and son-in-law of Mohammed, also received guidance from Al-Khidr. He was said to be friendly to magicians and knowledgeable about the natural sciences associated with the Art of Solomon. Some tales describe three wise men who served him, travelers from far-off lands whom he met''
''on pilgrimage, and who joined his court when he became caliph, sworn to support his rule and devout in their adherence to the teachings of the Prophet. Many of the followers of Solomon tell variations on this tale to justify their belief that there is nothing sinful or worldly about the practice of magic. As Ali trusted his advisers, so too may his holy successors trust the wise magicians that succeeded them.''

==The Umayyad Summoners==

''Some years later, during the Umayyad dynasty, another trio of summoners swore lifelong service to the caliph; many hold that the legend of Ali’s magical advisers derives from this event instead. They were each given an official title, wazir (“vizier”), which at that time meant “bearer of magic in service to the caliph.” At first they were trusted no more than any other men under his command, and possibly less so by those who fought beside them. As the caliphate began to expand its influence into Persia, Africa, and Europe, however, the warriors began to encounter other magicians — wizards who could rain fire upon the armies of Islam, or cause the seas to rise up and drown them, or cause the men to forget everything they were doing — and suddenly the wazirs became especially valuable, for the spirits they summoned could resist this magic. The foreign wizards served the armies that opposed the caliph, and so it became essential for the caliph’s wizards to train others who could assist them in the same way. Soon the three wazirs became thirty wazirs, as they sought out and trained promising students in their Art, and those''
''thirty became more than a hundred. Their powers developed further as Islam spread, so that, in addition to the spirits of the fallen, they learned to summon and control other spirits such as jinn (see Chapter 4: The Jinn), and led waves of them into battle. With their help, the Umayyad caliphs were able to overcome the other wizards who opposed them and ensure the safety of their troops. Meanwhile, the Umayyad armies conquered their foes, and the caliphs came to rule an enormous empire, including all of the Middle East and Persia, Northern Africa, Iberia, and even parts of France. It is most likely stories of these summoners, from before the time of the Founding, that magi and other European wizards equate with the members of the “Order of Suleiman.”''
''The downfall of the wazirs came from their callous dealings with the beings they summoned. Their powers essentially allowed them to enslave the jinn who served them, even though many of these beings also followed the teaching of the Prophet, which forbids such treatment. These practices tainted and ultimately undid their holy war, and turned many denizens of the supernatural realms against them. By about 720 AD the wazirs became desperately preoccupied defending against attacks from within their homelands, fighting a magical war waged upon them from other worlds. This prevented them from lending their support to the invading armies, and was one of the leading factors that slowed and eventually halted the expansion. The caliphs were furious at this turn of''
''events, but they did not blame their wazirs; instead, they blamed their people. Some of the Umayyads’ opponents took these attacks as indications that the nation of Islam was not rightly guided, and that the Umayyads were not true caliphs. A few even began to declare rival caliphs. To make matters worse, when wrathful spirits abused by the wazirs attacked, they focused upon the summoners themselves, not the common people, forcing the caliphate to defend them. For example, in 746, while Abbasid opponents of the Umayyads were mobilizing their forces in Khurasan, it is said that more than a hundred jinn laid siege to Damascus, demanding that the city turn over two wazirs who they knew hid within. After many such retributive acts, the population of summoners in the Mythic Middle East was dramatically reduced, and the term wazir ceased to be associated with wizards. Their ruthless tradition of summoning mostly died out everywhere but on the fringes of the empire.''

==The Formation of the Suhhar==

''As a result of these and other events, the Umayyad caliphate broke apart, and a new line was established in the Abbasids, with their new political center in Baghdad. One of the greatest Abbasid leaders was Harun al-Rashid, who came to power in 786. His mother, named Al-Khayzuran, was originally from Yemen and skilled in the magic of enchanting music and stories. At her urging, the new caliph agreed to assemble a council of wizards to advise him on mystical matters and help him secure his rule. He was convinced that having magical viziers devoted to the empire was a necessary thing, though he preferred to recruit great thinkers over great warriors. The head of this council was his grand vizier, Yahya ibn Khalid, also known as Yahya the Barmakid, an unGifted scholar who had dabbled in magical potions and elixirs in the court of the previous caliph, and who served as tutor to Harun al-Rashid from a young age. On the new caliph’s behalf he wrote to invite the finest minds in Islam to join this “Solomonic” council, explaining Harun’s vision of a''
''magical brotherhood that would make his caliphate paramount in learning and culture. This dream was realized by five great men, who with Yahya and Al-Khayzuran formed the original “wise council” of Harun. These famous sahirs were:''
''• Jabir ibn Hayyan, an alchemist, summoner, and scholar blessed with The Gentle Gift and a voracious thirst for knowledge. He was a master of the art called Sihr, first learning at the feet of one of the few surviving Umayyad summoners, and later studying everything the others knew. He was responsible for the discovery that allowed the First Council to incorporate their different styles of magic into a single tradition. • Muhammad al-Fazari, philosopher and astrologer, collector and author of many magical tomes. He constructed the first armillary sphere to aid him in his seasonal calculations. His father Ibrahim is said to have transformed himself into a spirit to watch over and assist his son with his magic and, as al-Fazari’s guardian spirit, Ibrahim first showed al-Fazari how to initiate himself and the other unGifted sahirs into their magical secrets. • Bakhtyshu, a Persian physician and Nestorian Christian. His father, Jurjis ibn Bakhtyshu, had served the previous caliph, but being non-Muslim the son was invited to join the council only provisionally and at Yahya’s insistence. He later proved his worth by exorcising a powerful shaitan (“demon”) that plagued the caliph. It is said he knew the True Names of hundreds of spirits, and taught many of them to the First Council. • Al-Zill Habib, “the beloved shadow,” a popular and inspirational highwayman who led revolts against the Umayyads and earned the unswerving respect of many followers, including a loyal band of jinn and several yatus (faerie wizards from Persia, see Chapter 8). He was believed to be a relative of AlKhayzuran, and constantly remained cloaked and covered to hide his face, even when alone. • Al-Hajjaj (or Al-Majnun, “the madman,” as he was sometimes called), a''
''poet and mathematician who wrote of his strange visions. He claimed to have studied from Al-Khidr, and to have traveled into the Magic Realm to drink from the Water of Life. He appeared perpetually as a young man of about 25, and no one could ever determine exactly when he was born.''
''Together, these seven wise people developed a common language among their different styles of summoning-based magic, and invented the five Solomonic arts (see Solomonic Magic, later). They answered directly to the caliph, and as part of their duties each of them spent time instructing the others or assisting with their magic to ensure that they all knew as much as possible about their different powers. Each of them excelled at a particular aspect of the Art of Solomon, but they combined these specialties so well that their tradition became a unified system, rather than several different abilities. Al-Khayzuran died suddenly in 789 under very mysterious circumstances. After complaining of a headache, she collapsed in her sitting room and was escorted, apparently unconscious, back to her chambers. There, under the watchful eyes of her son and many of his advisers, her body and possessions simply vanished. Her passing was mourned by the caliph and the entire council. Soon afterward, Yahya retired from court to devote himself more fully to his studies, and his Gifted son Ja’far became Harun’s grand vizier and head of the council. Harun moved his palace further north, putting more distance between his court and the sahirs, and from then on Ja’far was the only point of contact between the wizard council and the caliph. As Harun’s reputation increased, the stories tell that he became more introverted and mistrustful of Ja’far and the sahirs he represented. He sought out the advice of other so-called wise men, including a young Hermetic magus sent (supposedly) by the court of Charlemagne called Christopher Coronus, a famous Sufi teacher and holy man named Fozail-e Iyaz, and a strange miracle-worker and representative from the far east who they called Dawud al-Kharita. Under their influence, it is said, Harun began to resent the independence and power wielded by the grand vizier and his family.''
''He ceased consulting with Ja’far in private, but often did so with his new counselors. Vicious rumors began to spread about Ja’far: that he was a wicked sorcerer who consorted with evil spirits, and that he craved the caliph’s seat for himself. Ja’far begged Harun’s sister, whom he loved, to speak with her brother on his behalf, in the hope that her voice would soften his heart — but when she did, the easterner Dawud accused Ja’far of beguiling the lady with his magic, and as punishment the caliph had Ja’far executed and the rest of his family imprisoned or killed. Another version of these events is less sympathetic to Ja’far: as one of the first students of the new Art of Solomon, Ja’far was incredibly skilled and powerful, but too ambitious to be worthy of the title of grand vizier. He was not happy merely advising the caliph, and tried to force Harun to adopt him as his heir. The caliph proved surprisingly resistant to Ja’far’s enchantments, and so the crafty sahir took control of the caliph’s sister instead, plotting to gain his seat by marriage. Yahya suspected his son, but did not realize how far he would go, and it was only because of the fortuitous intervention of Harun’s other advisers that Ja’far’s designs were foiled. Because of this sudden turn of events, the five remaining leaders of Solomonic magic became very frightened, and unsure of what to do. It seemed their council ties to court and caliph had been severed. Months passed and there was no word of a new grand vizier being appointed, and they worried that their alliance would fall apart, their great achievements lost. They decided to travel in secret to the prison where Yahya (who had been mercifully spared by the caliph) was held captive, and met with him to discuss how they could keep the wise council from collapsing. At Yahya’s urging, they decided that they must form their own organization, one independent of the caliph. They realized how dangerously vulnerable to court intrigue and political maneuvering they were as a group of wizards who served Harun and the court directly, and instead chose to divorce themselves from magical service to the worldly authority, and become a self-governing and somewhat informal alliance of sahirs. They called this the Suhhar Sulayman (“Summoners of Solo''
''mon”), and over the course of several seasons they developed a plan for how they could function and ultimately prosper. (See Organization, later in this chapter.)''
''When they had finished their founding document, the former viziers humbly presented it to Harun, and begged him for his permission. Once he was convinced''
''that they were not plotting against him, the caliph gave this independent council his blessing, provided that the sahirs who belonged to it continued to serve him as''

[|

==Legends of the First Council==

''Many sahirs have attempted to learn what became of the members of the First Council, for completeness or inspiration. Most of what survives them is stories and legends.''
''Al-Khayzuran''
''Al-Khayzuran died, but her memory haunted the building that had once been Harun’s palace. A strong feminine presence is often recognized by sahirs sensitive to spirits in her chamber, and many claim to have been visited by her in dreams. Some speculate that the many tales about her brought a powerful faerie to live in her place, a queen who visits sleeping travelers and grants them power in exchange for stories.''
''Yahya ibn Khalid''
''Yahya the Barmakid was forever disgraced by his son’s actions at court, though he lived long enough to see the foundation of the Suhhar. It is said he had a collection of permanent Arcane Connections to the other members of the First Council, though no one knows what became of it when he died. It may have been on his person and buried with him in Baghdad, or he may have hidden it in his house or even his cell. The prison still stands in the city, though it has long since been abandoned and has an evil reputation.''
''Jabir ibn Hayyan''
''Jabir went to Kufa, where he wrote many books on the Solomonic arts. He was said to have become friends with Christopher Coronus, magus and ambassador from the Order of Hermes and the court of Charlemagne, though few de''
''tails about him survive. Christopher corresponded extensively with Tremere the Founder, he was especially interested in using magic to produce visual art, and he once threatened to slay Jabir in a duel but later said this had been a misunderstanding. It is probable from their conversations that early magi and sahirs heard the first accounts of each others’ organizations. Legends say that Jabir had a crisis of faith later in life, and that he sacrificed all of his magic just before he died for the right to walk in paradise. This story is controversial, as it suggests that Jabir believed he could not both be a faithful Muslim and practice magic, an idea that has been hotly debated among sahirs ever since.''
''Muhammad al-Fazari''
''Muhammad stayed on as the court astrologer for the rest of his life, and also wrote several exceptional books concerning his fields of expertise. He is said to have drawn a series of prophetic pictures before he died that predicted many future events, including the separation of the Iberian sahirs and Baghdad’s invasion by Mongols. He had no children, though he taught many followers, including the great Muhammad ibn Musa al-Khwarizmi, who is generally regarded as one of the most talented astrologers that the Suhhar has ever produced. While many believe that al-Fazari did not die and instead transformed himself into a spirit like his father, no one has yet demonstrated publicly that they are able to summon him.''
''Bakhtyshu''
''Bakhtyshu was the caliph’s personal physician, and also helped his son Jabril ibn Bakhtyshu establish himself with''
''the court, setting him up as Ja’far’s assistant. Jabril weathered the fall of the Barmakids from the caliph’s grace (some say by betraying his master’s plans to his enemies), but the stories also tell that Jabril ensured the other members of the First Council were praised and admired by the caliph, perhaps saving them from intrigues that would otherwise have doomed the Suhhar. Jabril had a large family and many children, and his descendants carried the magic of Solomon to the famous House of Healing in Gundeshapur. Some have even suggested that one of Jabril’s sons returned with Dawud al-Kharita to the far east, and there established a line of Christian magician-kings who would eventually produce the legendary figure known as Prester John.''
''Al-Zill Habib and Al-Hajjaj''
''Both Al-Zill and Al-Hajjaj remained in Baghdad for many years of teaching, but sometime in the mid-800s they suddenly left without warning, instructing their followers not to come after them. This came just after a visit from one of the caliph’s advisers, the Sufi mystic Fozail-e Iyaz, and sahirs have often wondered what passed between them, and if their departure was due to his interference. It was said the two sahirs traveled the length of the entire world together, from the Pillars of Hercules to the mountains of the Far East, and there are many stories of those who came upon them and shared a meal with them, always a young man dressed all in white and his companion hooded and wrapped in black. It is even said that the two of them still live, and that they appear no different in the year 1220 than they must have looked four hundred years ago.''

|]
''loyal subjects. Several of the first council members retained positions at court; perhaps this is why they continued to call themselves “viziers,” and their leader the “grand vizier,” at their meetings.''

==A Golden Age==

''In the years that followed, the Suhhar Sulayman flourished, teaching many students the secrets of Solomonic magic and welcoming other summoners into their fold. The house in Baghdad where the former council had studied and taught magic grew into a grand academy of Solomonic learning, called Bayt al-Hikma, and old and new sahirs joined them there and began to share their knowledge. A golden age of magic was born, and sahirs trained in the Art of Solomon began to spread across Muslim lands, bringing their magic to every corner of the empire. The Suhhar’s separation from the caliph’s court ensured that when the caliphate began to fracture, the Suhhar itself remained strong. Large communities of sahirs were organized around houses for teaching and studying magic in Damascus, Gundeshapur, Cairo, and Cordoba, and every year the viziers from those communities would travel to a grand gathering to represent their people. So many sahirs lived in these great cities that one vizier could not adequately represent them; Cairo, for example, sent 12 viziers to the gathering of 868, one for each house where more than two sahirs lived. In an important decision of 889, the grand vizier declared that the viziers elected by each community also represented the sahirs who lived alone or in pairs closest to them, and that it was the responsibility of the viziers to seek out their more solitary brethren and speak with them before every gathering as part of their service to the Suhhar. Before then, most viziers had simply avoided those members of the Suhhar who chose to live far from civilization, many of whom had The Gift and were thus especially unpleasant to visit. Cities were the primary centers of magical growth and learning for sahirs, as the lands of Africa and central Arabia and the borders of Islam remained very dangerous for summoners. Groups of supernatu''
''ral beings still angry at the treatment they received from the Umayyads prowled the edges of their settlements and vindictively struck at any victims they could catch. Those sahirs willing to live in magical auras outside of the Dominion had to be prepared to summon powerful guardians to protect themselves, or create great magical wards against such spirits that would keep them safe, and so generally did not set up in such places permanently. Perhaps they became fearful of the long journey across such hostile lands, but the Iberian sahirs began hosting their own gatherings in Cordoba in 912. The Baghdad sahirs tried to reconcile with them for several years, sending emissaries to dissuade them, but by 919 they abandoned these attempts and expelled them from the Suhhar Sulayman. Their Iberian council continued to meet on its own until 925 when the majority decided to join the Order of Hermes. There has been little contact between the two groups since then. Also during the mid-900s, the rise of the Fatimid caliphate drove many sahirs out of Northern Africa and east into Egypt, as rumor spread that the caliphs fought with the aid of strange Berber wizards that the sahirs’ spirits could not defeat. The sahirs who had preferred to live on the frontier either fled back to more populated lands or disappeared and were never heard from again. Combined with the defection of the Iberian sahirs, this reduced the lands occupied and represented by the Suhhar Sulayman to just Egypt, Arabia, and Persia. The Suhhar during this period was powerful, though introspective, and continued to develop so that by the middle of the 11th century, it had become the advanced magical tradition it is in 1220. For the most part, expansionist ideals had been subdued and deprecated among the members of the Suhhar, and most sahirs simply wanted to study their magic in peace. This peaceful time was interrupted when a prominent sahir named Hasan-i Sabbah murdered the grand vizier. This assassin belonged to a ruthless religious sect called the Nizari Isma’ili, and managed to escape punishment for his crime by fleeing to a Persian mountain stronghold. There, Hasan proceeded to teach others of his faith the secrets of Solomon’s Art and essentially created a rival organi''
''zation of sahirs that has continued to harass and trouble the Suhhar ever since (see The Nizari Isma’ili State, Chapter 8, for more about their history and practices). There was some occasional contact with other magical traditions during this time — since the First Council, sahirs had been aware of the European organization of wizards who called themselves the Order of Hermes, and after the Cordoba sahirs joined this organization there were many who sought to know even more about them, particularly how their magic differed from that of the Suhhar. They also knew about a few Zoroastrian priests still living in Persia, a few of whom had become sahirs, though relations between them were always strained. On the other hand, after driving most of the sahirs out of Northern Africa, the Berber wizards did not encroach further into the Middle East. By the end of the 11th century, the sahirs had turned completely upon themselves, their focus entirely inward, and the magical Middle East had become like a city in a bottle.''

==The Crusading Suhhar==

''The situation changed entirely with the Crusades. When foreign knights laid siege to Antioch and Jerusalem, the Muslim sahirs were surprised, shocked, and enraged. A few acted to help prevent Tyre’s fall, but for the most part the Suhhar was wildly unprepared for the attack. They then overreacted by electing to take a firmer hand over the supernatural politics of the region. They sent representatives to meet with and spy on the European wizards who had come over, and were surprised to learn that most of them were immune to their Solomonic magic, much in the same way that spirits, caliphs, and holy men had always been able to resist them. Others attacked the invaders, fighting with the Muslim armies against the magi, but those sahirs who met magi directly in battle were quickly defeated, and many of them were slain. The reluctant verdict among the majority of surviving sahirs was that the invaders fought with the Divine on their side, that''

[|

==The Families of Solomon’s Seal==

''The five great families of Solomonic sahirs descend from the five members of the First Council who formed the Suhhar Sulayman, some by blood but most by association. Each has become specialized in one type of magic, and tends to come from a particular region.''
''Ashab al-Sakhr “Followers of the Stone”''
''Ashab al-Sakhr (ass-HAWB usSAKHR) is a family of specialists in Solomonic Alchemy who descend from Jabir ibn Hayyan, the only Gifted member of the First Council. They are affiliated with the city of Damascus, the former capital city of the Umayyad wazirs and now the center of the sahirs’ counter-Crusade against the invading magi and soldiers. Besides being very unfriendly to Europeans, it is common for Followers of the Stone to be especially pious, and nonMuslims are almost unheard of among them. It is perhaps the most “noble” sahir family; its members value personal honor very highly, and especially favor arms and armor. Many of them choose to fight with steel instead of magic — or with steel augmented with magic.''
''Ashab al-Najm “Followers of the Star”''
''In the early days of the Suhhar, Solomonic Astrology was especially favored by a small group of Zoroastrians who converted to Islam and came to Baghdad to study magic from Al-Khwarizmi, the famous student of Al-Fazari. They later established a small academy in Nasibin in the north, and other houses entirely devoted to their art in many Persian cities as well. Ashab al-Najm (ass-HAWB un-NAJM) is perhaps the most widespread family of sahirs, and also the most arcane; they tend to dress and look like wizards or, at the very least, wise scholars. A common belief in the family is that''
''it is important for them to encourage the majestic reputation of magicians, even while using magic to serve others, lest the people cease to value it.''
''Ashab al-Yad “Followers of the Hand”''
''The first sahirs who specialized in Solomonic Physic were all members of the Bakhtyshu family, and took their magic with them to Gundeshapur, in Persia. There they established a famous academy known as the House of Healing. Most of the first physician sahirs were Nestorian Christians, though Muslims, Jews, and pagans have also joined their family, and their reputation has always been somewhat poor because of their ready acceptance of outsiders. This means the Ashab al-Yad (ass-HAWB ulYAD) family is seen to have something of a sinister aspect within the Suhhar — they are perceived as sahirs who heal but who also harm — and so no one is ever quite sure exactly how a Follower of the Hand will respond to a given situation.''
''Ashab al-Qalb “Followers of the Heart”''
''Though the Ashab al-Qalb (assHAWB ul-QALB) family was technically established by Al-Zill Habib, his followers generally regard Al-Khayzuran as the family’s matriarch and role model, especially since so little is known about the “beloved shadow” who taught them. Since Al-Zill disappeared, the civic focus of Solomonic Storytelling has remained in Baghdad, still known as the city of a thousand tales, and the grand vizier elected to lead the Suhhar has most often been a Follower of the Heart. They are usually very political sahirs, interacting with supernatural creatures like faeries and magical beings more often than other sahirs, and only rarely have The Gift. Women are much more common''
''in this family; the sahira-to-sahir ratio is almost one-to-one.''
''Ashab al-Nahr “Followers of the River”''
''Solomonic Travel was often marginalized as a lesser art by early sahirs, as few of them understood the power of other realms and worlds: not just Faerie and the Magic Realm, but also places of Divine and Infernal power, and even the realms of dreams and death. Two generations after Al-Hajjaj, a Nabatean traveler named Ibn Wahshiyya deciphered many secrets about these places from the writings of the ancient Egyptians, and singlehandedly revitalized the Art. There is a great academy in Cairo devoted to the study of these mysteries, and it is still considered the locus of the Ashab al-Nahr (ass-HAWB ul-NAHR) family’s magic. Ibn Wahshiyya and Al-Hajjaj both had reputations for intense passion and, ultimately, madness, and their followers are usually eccentric as well.''
''Ashab al-Halqa “Followers of the Circle”''
''There are also many sahirs who consider themselves specialized in no particular art, or who focus on their summoning art rather than the Solomonic arts. Before they left the Suhhar, many of the sahirs of Cordoba called themselves Ashab al-Halqa (ass-HAWB ul-HAL-qa), referring to the outside edge of the pentacle that forms the Seal of Solomon. This term is still used to describe unaligned sahirs, or those who claim to belong to none of the great families. Most Gifted sahirs and self-taught summoners meet these criteria, preferring to remain apart from the yearly gatherings, where they must be represented by viziers from the other families.''

|]
''Jerusalem was rightfully theirs, and that there was nothing they could do. However, the leader of one of the five great Solomonic families, the Asala al-Sakhr, asserted that the invaders had been aided by Infernal powers. A strong anti-crusader presence developed under his direction, especially among Syrian viziers and those who studied Solomonic Alchemy. The Suhhar remained publicly uninvolved, but many sahirs began acting against the European invaders, signing onto armies to fight them directly or teaching other soldiers to summon and wield Solomonic magic against their foes, much like the Umayyad wazirs. The Suhhar soon relaxed most of their strictures concerning fair treatment of non-Muslim supernatural beings, and agreed that crusading magi of the Order of Hermes were enemies of the Muslim people, authorizing sahirs to retaliate however they felt was just. In the aftermath of the First Crusade, sahirs acted mostly in secret, uncertain what would happen if they were to confront the Hermetic wizards directly. They taught magic to important leaders, helping them understand how the Art of Solomon could assist their cause; they manipulated real-world events by taking advantage of the geography of the Magic Realm, circumventing the enemy to ambush them from behind or ransack their camps; they interpreted astrological indicators to predict unfavorable circumstances for their enemies, so that they knew precisely when to strike; and generally they confused and harried the opposing armies and leaders wherever possible. Their involvement ensured the recapture of Edessa, and also the downfall of the Second Crusade against the Muslim states. There is a tradition among the Suhhar whereby an appointed vizier adopts the guise of a nameless old wise man, much as Al-Khidr is described as doing in the Qu’ran, and approaches promising Muslim leaders or scholars with an offer to teach them magic or assist their causes in other ways. This is seen as an honorable way for sahirs to involve themselves directly in the politics of the region without committing the Suhhar to their cause, and is often called “sending a guide.” When two men rose to prominence in the late 1100s, Nur ad-Din and Saladin, both were sent a guide with an offer of magical aid. Nur''
''ad-Din had no wish to join the Suhhar, revealing to the ambassador that he had already been taught magic by Al-Khidr himself. In fact, there was a brief exchange of wisdom between the two men, documented in a famous text now kept safely in Baghdad. Saladin refused the guide, no explanation given, and the sahirs of the region were forced to try to aid him without his consent. In 1220, the Suhhar Sulayman is still at war with the crusaders occupying the Holy Land, including members of the Order of Hermes. They still observe the yearly gathering at Baghdad, but the conflict is rarely discussed. Plans are in motion for a retaliatory attack against the Levant, what might be considered a Solomonic countercrusade, and sahirs have been gathering intelligence about the Order of Hermes so they may strike at them where they are weakest and — they hope — drive the invading magi from their lands entirely. To this end, the sahirs have made it clear that all Hermetic magi are welcome in their lands, where they can be watched more easily without their knowledge, and''
''where they can be found more quickly when the time comes to attack. They now study their enemy in earnest, for they are still at war and do not intend to lose.''

==Culture==

''Most of what defines a sahir of the Suhhar Sulayman was decided by the members of the First Council, codified at the meeting in 805 when they first became an independent organization, and this has been reinforced at the gathering every year since (see Organization, later, for details of how these gatherings function). As they envisioned it, a person must simply appear before the assembly accompanied by a sponsor to join, and need only demonstrate to the assembled sahirs that he can summon a spirit. No other criteria or restrictions were considered necessary, since all of their magic depended on this power more than anything else. In deference to Al-Khayzuran and''
''Bakhtyshu, no restrictions against women or non-Muslims were written into the founding document. They required that, in addition to the pious practice of zakat, every sahir must share one-quarter of his wealth with the Suhhar, which would apply these resources towards the spread of knowledge in their communities. Also, because of the many jinn uprisings from the century before, they established rules governing how sahirs could summon and interact with spirits. No thinking, feeling being would be bound in thrall to a sahir, they wrote, or held captive by a sahir who himself remained free; those who did this would no longer be part of the Suhhar. These were the only laws they envisioned the sahirs needing to enforce; all other matters would be decided by Islamic law, to which they were all clearly subject. In 1220 there are approximately 5,000 members of the Suhhar living in the lands of the Mythic Middle East. They are most numerous in Iraq and Jazira, least common in Transoxania, and while a small community might support only five or six sahirs at most, large cities like Al-Mada’in or Basra can easily support 50, often divided up among different districts. Beyond the boundaries of this book’s focus, in Syria or Egypt for example, might be found another two or three thousand sahirs who also belong to the Suhhar and who send representation each year. Of this total, about two-thirds are men, three-quarters are Muslims, and only about 500 have The Gift. In total, sahirs outnumber Hermetic magi by about five to one.''

==Organization==

''The Suhhar Sulayman is governed by a consultative council, the Majlis al-Sulayman ((MAJ-liss al-SUE-lem-un), “Solomonic Council,” pl. Majalis). Every community of three or more sahirs living within the borders of Islam chooses one of its number to represent it as a vizier at the Majlis, and this representative travels to Baghdad every summer to speak on behalf of the community. All these assembled viziers then elect one of their own to lead them as grand vizier. Each vizier has one vote in this decision, no matter how many sahirs he repre''
''sents, but the matter is often easily settled by the volume of cheers as each candidate comes forward, or by a show of hands. A strict count of votes is rarely necessary. Once elected, the grand vizier addresses all issues that are brought to him, though these are typically issues that are purely internal to the Suhhar. All the Majlis ultimately oversees is membership in the Suhhar, and thus the worst sentence that the grand vizier can pronounce at Majlis is expulsion. In this, the grand vizier has absolute authority for the whole year, though he is also expected to follow precedent and heed the will and advice of his fellow viziers. Most issues that come up between gatherings are deferred until Majlis, since the first thing the new grand vizier must do is ratify any judgments that have been made since the previous year. The Suhhar has five distinct “families” of sahirs, magical lineages that trace back to five of the members of the First Council. Each family represents one particular branch of the Solomonic art, and the five heads of these families are collectively referred to as the Asalat ((a-sa-LEHT), sing. Asala (a-sa-LAH)), which means “points” and refers to the five points on the Seal of Solomon. Each family has its own method of choosing their Asala, but they are usually the most powerful followers of their art. All five must be present for the Majlis to be valid; if any of them are missing the family must agree upon another Asala before the grand vizier is chosen. The five Asalat have the authority to remove the grand vizier, and any of them may call for a private vote at any time if they believe he is unable to guide the Suhhar with wisdom. They can also choose another grand vizier between gatherings, if the previous grand vizier is removed or something happens to him, and this appointment is valid until the next time the Majlis meets. This is a rare event, not least because it requires all five of them to gather and discuss it. For this reason, none of the Asalat may be elected grand vizier, though they each have a vote. Only viziers are supposed to attend Majlis, though there are three exceptions. Sahirs applying to join the Suhhar may attend in the company of a vizier, servants of a vizier may attend to see to his needs, and spirits that have been summoned by''
''the vizier may enter with him but may not be summoned while inside without special dispensation from the grand vizier. All three sorts of guest are expected to be unobtrusive, and do not vote. Any attention they attract reflects positively or negatively upon the vizier who they accompany, and if they disturb the proceedings the grand vizier typically orders that vizier to leave, taking them with him. Issues commonly brought to the Majlis include: disputes over rights to contested resources such as vis or spirits; accusations that a sahir is not devoting himself to the spread of knowledge as he has promised to do; initiating new members into the Suhhar; declaring former members officially removed from the Suhhar; and matters of policy or complaints regarding sahirs’ dealings with other wizards or supernatural beings. There are often discussions, such as what should be done in hypothetical situations, or the sharing of knowledge or intelligence regarding what is happening within the borders of Islam. Established practice at Majlis is for the grand vizier to hear all who wish to speak to each issue, and these speeches usually address how similar matters have been decided previously, or else they are pleas for mercy or special consideration due to unusual circumstances. The standard punishment for every crime is expulsion from the Suhhar, though the grand vizier can always declare a less severe punishment if he feels it is merited — for example, he can lessen a sentence by requiring the offender pay a fine of vis (due by the next Majlis) or perform a service for the Suhhar in lieu of expulsion. Of course, the grand vizier risks upsetting the rule of law and being removed from his position if he demonstrates obvious favoritism. Since the days of the First Council, most of the decisions of the Majlis have been justice between individuals, and only rarely those that would affect the entire Suhhar. Those few decisions of precedence have mostly governed how representatives speak for the sahirs they represent, and what constitutes a community (“three or more who live together” is the general rule). Other verdicts established the many ways that sahirs may fulfill their obligation to the spread of knowledge. Sahirs must not trouble the Majlis with matters that''
''can be addressed by the mundane court unless there are supernatural factors that only sahirs would recognize, and then it is usually better that other sahirs speak with the court on their behalf. The fact that only viziers may attend and speak at the Majlis, and that sahirs are usually not inclined to choose troublemakers as their representatives, means that it is common for a sahir accused at the Majlis to be unable to even attend, much less speak in his own defense. This is accepted as normal, and a sahir’s vizier provides such defense as he feels appropriate. Obviously, things often go badly for sahirs on bad terms with their vizier, but this is another reason for using the mundane courts to resolve most problems. It is not uncommon for two aggrieved parties, or the viziers representing them, to duel rather than rely on the judgment of the grand vizier. There are many kinds of trials acceptable to the Majlis, from boasting contests and competitive storytelling to spirit champions wrestling each other for dominance — even duels to the death using magic, steel, or both. For this to serve justice, both parties must agree to abide by the results of the duel (although if a sahir is obviously more powerful than his challenger, it is considered cowardly not to accept), and the terms must be acceptable to both parties and the grand vizier. Generally, seconds decide the specifics, based on what they know of the competitors, and these events are often seen as a form of entertainment for the assembled viziers. An important issue settled by the Majlis concerns sahirs who become supernatural beings (who, in mechanical terms, gain a Might Score). In the 10th century, a sahir complained that another had learned to summon him with his magic, and had shared this formula with several of his cohorts, who would all constantly interrupt his studies by summoning him and proposing absurd bargains. The second sahir, who had guessed this was coming and got his companions to elect him their vizier, argued that there was no law forbidding him from practicing the Art on any spirit he could summon. After much discussion, the grand vizier ruled that since the first sahir could be summoned by the second, he was no longer a sahir. As a supernatural being, the (former) sahir was no longer''
''subject to their laws, and could do whatever he wished to the other as recompense for being annoyed by him and his friends. Since then, the Suhhar has treated all spirits and other supernatural creatures as ineligible for membership. The Suhhar requires that sahirs only give or sell “magic things” that they have made to other sahirs. This was originally agreed to ensure that sahirs did not anger the caliph by supplying magical devices to his enemies, but is now used to help prevent bound spirits and Solomonic magic''
''from being used against the Suhhar, and also to keep rival groups from forming in the Middle East by limiting their access to vis. Offering vis to spirits that sahirs have summoned is perfectly acceptable, but sahirs are not supposed to trade away extracted vis to magi or other wizards in the region (trading naturally-occurring vis is still a gray area, and of course sahirs can buy vis with impunity). Also, sahirs are required to retain control of any magical devices that they make for non-sahirs to use. This restriction includes mundane ob''

[|

==Majlis Story Seeds==

''There are many stories centered around the Majlis al-Sulayman, for sagas focused on sahirs or magi.''
''A New Grand Vizier''
''Kha’trazh appears to be in his fifties, though he has lived almost a hundred years. Many think he is likely to die soon, which will cause great deliberation at the next Majlis as the assembled sahirs try to choose an appropriate replacement. When this happens between gatherings, the Asalat usually choose the vizier who represents the original bayt al-hikma (now called the Dar al-Hikma, see Chapter 7: Mesopotamia, Baghdad) to serve in the interim, but the sahir who currently holds that position is very controversial and unlikely to retain the position after the vote. Campaigning for the position will likely proceed in earnest as soon as Kha’trazh dies.''
''A Test of Arms''
''The Followers of the Stone typically decide their Asala with a test of arms, and a vengeful sahir who opposes Kha’trazh might challenge his family’s leader to try to take the position.''
''The Sixth Asalat''
''A group of sahirs who do not belong to the five families insist they re''
''ceive representation among the Asalat, and demand a sixth Asala. Sahirs who belong to this movement might use a six-pointed star as their symbol.''
''The Sahir-Magus''
''A magus who can summon spirits could easily gain membership in the Suhhar Sulayman, and perhaps speak on behalf of his sodales in the Order of Hermes. This might make Kha’trazh’s policy of avoiding immediate conflict with the Order of Hermes unfeasible, and to resolve the situation he might quietly encourage other sahirs to challenge this sahir-magus to a duel.''
''The Sahirs of Iberia''
''An Iberian sahir comes to Majlis, representing a community of sahirs that do not belong to the Order of Hermes. He reminds them that another Crusade threatens the followers of Islam — the Reconquista — and begs them to consider restoring their alliance.''
''The Vizier’s Opposition''
''Kha’trazh expels a popular sahir accused of betraying the Suhhar. This is a rallying point for the leader of the grand vizier’s opposition, who promises to restore the disgraced sahir if his supporters will vote for him.''

|]
''jects that have been improved with Solomonic magic, like weapons or animals, and has recently been applied to books written about Solomonic magic. Sahirs caught letting enhanced items loose must forfeit whatever payment they received, and are usually tasked by the grand vizier with recovering the enhanced items for the Suhhar in lieu of expulsion. Another issue that has been settled by precedent is who may participate in the vote for grand vizier, and who settles disputes regarding the outcome. In order to attend the Majlis, every sahir must be vouched for by an Asala, who introduces him to the assembly and names the community he represents. If no Asala will speak for him, he may not enter. If there is a dispute regarding the outcome of the''
''vote, the Asalat settle the matter. Once when there was a tie for grand vizier, the Asalat voted to determine the winner. Another time when the former grand vizier was delayed until past dusk and the assembled viziers had proceeded to choose another grand vizier without him, the Asalat decided to reverse the decision and vote again. For nearly 30 years, the Majlis has chosen Kha’trazh al-Wazir al-Dall Ariq alQalb to lead them, a calm and quiet man from Basra who always chooses his words carefully. He is not considered especially clever or powerful — he does not have The Gift — and he is said to have chosen his laqab name al-Wazir al-Dall (“the dignified vizier”) to suggest that he would not abuse his position or give himself airs.''
''His chief virtues are that he is thought to be easily guided by the voices of his assembled viziers, that he listens to everyone who wishes to speak, and that he is on relatively good terms with all five Asalat. The Majlis has always been a festive occasion, but in the years since the start of the Crusades, the tone of the gathering has become more solemn. Sahirs know that a powerful enemy has invaded, one who can probably infiltrate their gatherings and divine their movements. Thus, they are careful not to wage war overtly, and their plans are not discussed in public. The official word is that the Majlis has no authority over non-Solomonic wizards, and so matters dealing with them are off the table. Those sahirs who have encountered the enemy are usually invited to''

[|

==Majlis in Baghdad==

''Every summer, many of the streets and much of the open land on the south side of the Round City in Baghdad (see Chapter 7) fill with stalls and tents in an enormous fair. This is attended by merchants from all over the Mythic Middle East, and lasts most of the season. All manner of goods and services may be found at this event, including unique items and entertainments brought by strange men from fantastic lands. Visitors are cautioned to maintain a clear idea of what they seek before they explore, for there are many vendors who appear only when their wares are especially desired, or who lure unwary travelers into their tents where they disappear forever. The Suhhar Sulayman meets here every year in a great six-sided hall located at the center of the bazaar and hidden from outsiders with powerful magic, so that it appears as a collection of brightly-colored tents always in the distance. It is usually guarded by several powerful spirits summoned by the Asalat to keep outsiders from intruding. Inside the hall is a series of luxurious tiers several levels deep, outfitted with sumptuous pillows, lamps, fans, and magicallyconjured servants that bring food and drink, all of this beneath a transparent ceiling that shows the sky and the heav''
''ens beyond. The six descending steps of comfort where the viziers assemble by family surround a central stage with a gold-inlaid pentacle, where the grand vizier sits on a jeweled throne. The official dates of the Majlis alSulayman are always carefully calculated by the astrologers of the Suhhar to match the dates of the First Council. It is supposed to begin at dusk on the day when the sun passes from the constellation of Leo into the sign of Virgo, and it continues through the following night, typically breaking up before dusk on the third day. (In 1220 AD, this is August 1517.) In unusual circumstances the Majlis can continue beyond these dates, but the majority of the viziers will likely depart, their obligation having been fulfilled. If re-elected, the current grand vizier Kha’trazh holds formal council the first evening and late into the night, and all the next day as well, though he does not expect the other viziers to endure his strict regimen, and does not appear to notice if anyone naps through the proceedings. He usually reserves more controversial matters for the second evening after dinner. Viziers are encouraged to mingle, for once the grand vizier has been elected their official role is done, though Kha’trazh listens patiently to any''
''vizier who wishes to speak. The contemporary Majlis is usually a quiet buzz of many different voices speaking together, surrounding the louder and more formal speeches in the central circle. Another grand vizier might organize the event differently, as others have in the past. Many sahirs come to this event to trade vis with each other outside in the market. Some types of vis are particularly valuable to them (what magi would identify as Rego vis), and some are not (they generally have little use for Animal and Herbam vis). Magi who come upon the bazaar may be surprised at the number of supernatural curiosities available for barter. Once the Majlis is over and summer has turned to autumn, the south side of the old city of Baghdad empties and the collection of paths, lots and stalls soon looks like a jumble of ruins again. The local sahirs maintain this illusion of dilapidated abandonment, to prevent passersby from stumbling upon their buildings or other evidence of the yearly gathering. A few of the vendors do remain throughout the year, though they tend to be “in the know” since the district does not have a good reputation with the rest of Baghdad and most of its people look to other markets for their needs.''

|]
''meet privately with the grand vizier in a magical fortress on an island hidden deep within the Magic Realm, where such matters can be discussed more openly.''

==How Sahirs Live==

''Sahirs are typically organized around buyut al-hikma, which are run by the viziers of the Suhhar. Their primary purpose is teaching the Art of Solomon to other sahirs and initiating promising students into their secrets. Their secondary purpose is educating their community and providing a center for higher learning and culture. Most cities in the Middle East have a bayt al-hikma located somewhere within their walls, and some (like Baghdad or Najaf) have several. Buyut al-hikma typically have a library (made up of books donated in exchange for access), Solomonic laboratories, and vis stores. They are similar to Hermetic covenants, and can be designed in much the same way. Unlike Hermetic covenants, however, buyut do not typically have an income that can support more than the sahirs who live and work there, since they must also provide service to their community. Buyut are generally welcoming to strangers, since sahirs are, at least in theory, obliged to share their knowledge with anyone who has an interest. Teachers at buyut occasionally find''
''themselves instructing young students alongside master sahirs. Many sahirs may live within buyut al-hikma, while others merely live nearby and visit them regularly. A few sahirs, especially those with The Gift, live on their own far from large groups of people, and communicate with other sahirs through written messages or other means. Every sahir must maintain ties with his bayt, because it is his only connection to the Suhhar as a whole. If a vizier has been unable to make contact with a sahir for five years, he is considered lost. Others may be sent to try to find him, or may not, depending on the opinion his vizier has of him, but if a lost sahir returns, he may always go to Majlis with his vizier and ask to rejoin. Like most scholars in the Mythic Middle East, sahirs must support themselves, typically by working two seasons out of every year. If a sahir lives at a bayt al-hikma, these two seasons include the season of service required by the Suhhar. Many sahirs teach, instructing other sahirs or students in the Solomonic arts or other subjects as directed by the community’s leaders. Others are scribes, apothecaries, or physicians, though other professions are possible too. For those sahirs who are uncomfortable working among others, or unable to do so, the donation of one-quarter of their wealth is considered an acceptable substitute for service. Each sahir gives his contribution to his vizier, who uses it to''
''subsidize the bayt or fund special projects requested by the grand vizier. Most new sahirs learn magic from other sahirs, though a few are discovered with summoning powers and invited to initiate the Solomonic arts with aid from their mentors. When brought before the Majlis and recognized as a new member, a sahir typically takes a new name by which he will be known from then on. This is often a unique collection of sounds that the sahir likes, or perhaps a name taken to honor someone he admires, similar to the Muslim ism. He typically adds a nisba to the end of his name as well, to represent his Solomonic family: al-Sakhr, al-Najm, al-Yad, al-Qalb, al-Nahr, or very rarely al-Halqa (see The Families of Solomon’s Seal). If a sahir is chosen by his community to speak for them, he typically takes another name, a laqab that describes how he intends to represent them. This nickname is only used as long as he fulfills this role; if he steps down or his community appoints another, the laqab is dropped.''

==Characters==

''This section includes rules for designing sahir characters to play in a saga, either as an unusual character in a Hermetic magi saga, or as a standard character in a saga set in the Mythic Middle East.''

==The Cradle & The Crescent Sahir Virtues and Flaws==

''Some of these Virtues refer to Accelerated Supernatural Abilities. These are like other Supernatural Abilities, but they increase on the same accelerated scale as Hermetic Arts, and are described in more detail under The Solomonic Arts, later in this chapter. There are many Hermetic Virtues and Flaws that might be appropriate for sahirs to take as Supernatural Virtues or Flaws, as long as they improve or limit Solomonic magic to the same degree. Storyguides are encouraged to adapt these as they see fit.''
''New and Modified Virtues''
''The following Virtues are appropriate to sahir characters.''
''Invocation of Names of Power Major, Supernatural The sahir is capable of casting a unique type of spell called a Name of Power, which is invented like a summoning spell (see Seasonal Summoning, later in this chapter) but grants a bonus to a subsequently cast spell, similar in scope to those found on the Shape and Material Bonus table. The spell level is equal to five times the bonus; some example Names of Power are given in the nearby insert. If the sahir knows a Name of Power that governs the area of another spell he wishes to cast, he may “utter” (cast) the Name of Power first, and the subsequent spell’s Casting Total receives a bonus equal to that of the Name of Power. Thus, a Name of Power: Shamash can give a bonus to any formula involving light or justice. A sahir may utter any number of applicable Names of Power before casting a spell, but the total bonus cannot exceed his Finesse score. Names of Power can also be used in conjunction with summoning; the Names invoked must match the type of spirit being summoned. Some examples are:''
''Name Type Adad storms, divination Dumuzi livestock, crops Ishtar healing, love Nergal destruction, disease Ninhursag earth Shamash light, justice''
''For example, Jasmin knows the Name of Power: Ishtar at Level 20, granting her +4 to healing effects. She utters this formula in the round before a Solomonic Physic formula designed to speed recovery, and receives a +4 bonus to her Casting Total. Jasmin also knows a Level 15 Name of Power: Ninhursag that gives +3 to earth-related effects, and a Level 15 Name of Power: Nergal that gives +3 to destruction-related effects. She wants to summon an earthquake spirit, so takes two rounds to utter both; however, since her Finesse is 5, she receives only +5 to her roll to summon the spirit, rather than +6. Botching a Name of Power roll, or a spell affected by a Name of Power, usually attracts the negative attention of the Named being. This Virtue is similar to (and possibly the ancestor of) the Invocation Magic Virtue (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 78). The yatus (see Persia, Chapter 8) introduced this Virtue into the Suhhar Sulayman, and they usually call upon the names of the ancient Mesopotamian gods (see Mythic Mesopotamia, Chapter 7).''
''Sahir Free, Social Status By demonstrating to the Majlis that he can summon a spirit, the character has been accepted into the Suhhar and is affiliated with a magical academy known as a bayt al-hikma, or “house of wisdom.” He is obliged to further the Suhhar’s causes for one season every year, but is supported by them and benefits from increased access to its teachers, books, and vis sources. During character creation, the character may take appropriate Academic or Arcane Abilities. If the character does not actually possess the power to summon a spirit, he should take the Dark Secret Story Flaw, as he will be immediately expelled from the Suhhar when this fact is discovered. This Virtue should be taken along with another Social Status Virtue or Flaw, to describe the character’s status among non-sahirs.''
''Sihr Major, Supernatural This Virtue gives the character an initial score of 0 in the Accelerated Supernatural Ability of (Solomonic) Sihr.''
''Solomonic Alchemy Major, Supernatural The character gains an Accelerated Supernatural Ability, Solomonic Alchemy, with an initial score of 0.''
''Solomonic Astrology Major, Supernatural Taking this Virtue gives the character the Accelerated Supernatural Ability of Solomonic Astrology with an initial score of 0.''
''Solomonic Physic Major, Supernatural Taking this Virtue gives the character the Accelerated Supernatural Ability of Solomonic Physic with an initial score of 0.''
''Solomonic Storytelling Major, Supernatural Taking this Virtue gives the character the Accelerated Supernatural Ability Solomonic Storytelling with an initial score of 0.''
''Solomonic Travel Major, Supernatural The character gains an initial score of 0 in the Accelerated Supernatural Ability of Solomonic Travel.''
''Vizier Minor, Social Status The character has been elected as representative for a community of sahirs. This gives him several political advantages, such as the ability to attend Majlis and speak before the grand vizier, as well as additional responsibilities at his bayt alhikma. The character has a Reputation of level 3 among the Suhhar, which can be positive or negative. Only characters with the Sahir Virtue may take this Virtue.''
''Yatu Magic Minor, Supernatural The sahir’s heritage comes from the yatus of Persia (see Mazandaran, Chapter 8). He is attuned to both Magic and''
''Faerie auras, and his magical effects can be treated as either Magic or Faerie powers, depending upon which gives him the most favorable (or least unfavorable) aura bonus. He does not gain Warping Points from living in either type of aura.''
''New and Modified Flaws''
''These Flaws are also designed especially for sahir characters.''
''Bound Spells Major, Supernatural All of the sahir’s spells are bound to a specific spirit when they are invented, the spirit that was present in the laboratory to power the effect. Unlike other sahirs, the character cannot cast his spells through any spirit he summons, but must use the spirit to which the spell is bound. The sahir may easily reinvent a spell in one season that he has learned to cast with another spirit, since he effectively possesses a lab text for that spell.''
''Patron Minor or Major, Story The character serves an important figure in the Mythic Middle East, such as the caliph, a wealthy emir, an ancient jinni, or a powerful sahir. This person will periodically instruct the character to act on his behalf — the more powerful the patron, the more onerous or frequent the duties that will be required of the character. As a Minor Flaw, the character has the patron’s ear, and may influence him and his requests. Also, the patron will generally grant a favor or boon to the character whenever he does something that is asked of him. As a Major Flaw, the character has little choice in the matter and must do whatever his patron asks, or suffer grave consequences. Rewards are not to be expected.''
''(Realm) Spirit Companion Minor, Story The character is accompanied by an intelligent magical spirit companion, one that is smart enough to follow orders, and also to disobey them. The greater the''
''companion’s Might Score, the more independent it is. A grog-level spirit (Might Score of about 5 or less) is nearly an extension of the character’s will, while a companion-level spirit (Might Score of about 10) will follow instructions but often do what it thinks is best, and a magus-level character (Might Score of 15 or more) is condescending or wild, and rarely acts except on its own initiative. The spirit may belong to any realm. If it is infernal, this is a Major Story Flaw instead, as the demon regularly attempts to corrupt the sahir. An infernal Spirit Companion in the Mythic Middle East is not as bad as it would be in Mythic Europe,''
''as other sahirs will assume that the sahir has it under control, though they might be more wary in its presence.''

==Sahir Character Creation==

''Designing sahirs is slightly different from making magi, as the majority of sahirs do not have The Gift and are more like companions in terms of power. Sahirs do not have an established apprenticeship period, so their seasonal experience gained during character creation is streamlined, and since sahirs manage their own''

[|

==Other Summoning Arts==

''There are four summoning powers published in other Ars Magica supplements that may be used with Solomonic magic, since all can target spirits and originate from the Art of Solomon. These are listed in order of rarity in the Middle East, from most to least, with their variations are summarized as follows. To help distinguish them, different versions of Summoning often have a parenthetical in front of the name, suggesting their particular focus.''
''(Spirit) Summoning''
''This Art summons any incorporeal spirit, generally one associated with the same realm as this Art, though Infernal spirits are also common. If the summoning is successful, the spirit is bound until released by the summoner. (Spirit) Summoning is always tainted with the Infernal, and thus Infernal versions are most common, but there are also Faerie and Magic versions. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 114-115)''
''(Theurgical) Summoning, or (Elemental) Summoning''
''Some of this magical tradition’s followers summon spirits associated with the elemental forms (Aquam, Auram, Ignem, or Terram). The spirit can''
''come from any realm, and is typically held within a container until released. The power is most commonly Magic, though other realms are possible. It is relatively common in Persia and Asia Minor. (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 23-24)''
''(Exotic) Sihr, or (Jinni) Summoning''
''Like Solomonic Sihr, this Iberian version of the Art can summon and bind a jinni, if the sahir can overpower it with his Summoning Total. It is not very common in the Mythic Middle East, since its Solomonic counterpart is so widespread. (Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 135-136)''
''(Realm) Summoning, or (Faerie) Summoning''
''This is a rare Summoning variant targeting creatures from a single realm, and so can potentially summon Divine, Faerie, Magic, or Infernal spirits. Currently the only known version summons faeries (Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 131-132), and is found among the yatus of Persia and occasional travelers from Europe, though there are also rumors of a far eastern version aligned to the Divine.''

|]
''incomes rather than depending on a covenant, the Wealthy Virtue and Poor Flaw have a much greater impact. Gifted sahirs should occupy the same status as magi. With the troupe’s approval, unGifted sahirs may be Mythic Companions, with twice as many points of Virtues as Flaws and a free Minor Virtue, and taking the place of a magus character. UnGifted sahirs can also be played as regular companions with the normal amount of Virtues and Flaws.''
''Virtues and Flaws''
''Every sahir accepted into the Suhhar Sulayman takes the Free Sahir Social Status Virtue. Unless he takes the Dark''
''Secret Flaw, he should have the Sihr Virtue or another Virtue or Virtues that allow him to summon spirits. For example, a Kurdish group of sorcerers called the Mulhidun in northern Persia (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 136-137) have (Spirit) Summoning, and many of them have joined the Suhhar. There are also two societies of elemental wizards found throughout the region, called the Brethren of Purity and the Students of Avicenna (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 28–32), and a few of them might have a special elementalist summoning art (Theurgical Summoning) and one or more Elementalist Abilities (e.g., Elementalist Fire) that can be used in conjunction to summon an elemental spirit. A sahir with The Gift and a summon''
''ing Virtue or Virtues may begin play after having been initiated into the tradition by another Gifted sahir, with all five of his Solomonic arts opened at 0. He also receives a Minor Virtue at no cost to represent his teacher’s influence: usually Puissant (Ability) in the Solomonic art associated with the master’s family. Many sahirs are Educated (see Introduction, Chapter 1) or have Arcane Lore or the Student of Magic Virtue to represent their studies with their mentors. A few sahirs learn their magic from spirits directly, and the Ghostly Warder Virtue is one way to represent this advantage. Like other characters unaffiliated with a Hermetic covenant, sahirs must spend time every year working to support themselves (this includes their yearly obligation to the Suhhar). For most sahirs, this takes two seasons every year. Characters with the Wealthy Virtue lose only one season a year, and those with the Poor Flaw are free only one season each year. The difference between these two extremes is especially noticeable during character creation; a rich sahir will be many magnitudes more powerful than a poor sahir — nearly all of the greatest sahirs in the history of the Suhhar Sulayman have been wealthy and privileged. Some sahirs have a long-term mutually beneficial arrangement with a minor spirit, which is best represented by the (Realm) Spirit Companion Flaw. It is not uncommon for young sahirs to have abused or angered spirits before they joined the Suhhar, giving them the Plagued by Spirit or Supernatural Nuisance Flaws.''
''Experience''
''Sahirs receive starting experience like normal companions. They begin character creation with Native Language at 5 and 45 experience points to spend on their first five years. Then, in later life, most sahirs receive 15 experience points per year of their starting age (those with the Wealthy Virtue receive 20 and those with the Poor Flaw receive 10). Once the sahir has joined the Suhhar, he receives 25 experience points per year (30 if he is Wealthy, 15 if he is Poor). This represents his improved access to study''
''sources and magical resources. Players should consider spending the character’s experience on the following Abilities:''
''• To cast spells, a sahir must have a score of 4 in one of the languages sahirs use (Arabic, Parsi, or Greek). To read and write books, he needs this language score at 5 and Artes Liberales 1. (Most of the Suhhar’s books are written in Arabic.) • Sahirs can often locate new spirits with''
''Area Lore. • Bargain is essential when sahirs want to convince spirits to aid them. • Many magical effects require Concentration to cast and maintain. • Finesse is often used to manipulate active magic. • Leadership allows sahirs to lead groups of spirits, or other sahirs in the laboratory. • A sahir is able to summon spirits more''
''effectively with Penetration. • Sahirs must somehow make a living.''
''Often this is represented with scores in Profession: Apothecary, Profession: Scribe or Teaching, as these trades are typically practiced at buyut al-hikma. Other Abilities can be justified; the character’s total in the related Characteristic + Ability should at least equal 6. • Realm Lore describes spirits and supernatural places, useful for finding and identifying them. • Knowledge of the Suhhar is governed''
''by Organization Lore: Suhhar Sulayman. Their legal code and belief systems are covered by Islamic Law and Theology: Islam; the latter combined with an Arabic score of 6 or more can help protect sahirs against jinn (see Chapter 4: The Jinn, Jinni Weaknesses). • Sahirs should not neglect the Abilities''
''associated with their Solomonic arts (Area Lore, Artes Liberales, Medicine, Philosophiae, and Realm Lore), as these scores increase their lab totals and add to their casting totals when they cast spells without magical words or gestures.''
''Sahirs will likely spend experience on other Abilities appropriate to the charac''
''ter, and on the Solomonic arts and other Supernatural Abilities that they have available to them during character creation because of Virtues, or because they have had The Gift opened by a teacher. A starting sahir should be able to summon a spirit with a Might Score of 10 using his summoning art, and should have a score of at least 5 in one of the five Solomonic arts. Sahirs can also purchase Solomonic spells during character creation, recorded like Hermetic spells and with a maximum level of (Intelligence + summoning art + Solomonic art + related Ability). Assuming that every sahir studies from appropriate lab texts, each spell costs a number of starting experience points equal to its level. For example, a Level 15 spell costs 15 experience points. Sahirs can start with any spells that their players would like to design. Spells are extremely valuable to sahirs, and a starting character should always invest in a minimum of 120 spell levels, or his magic will be severely limited.''
''Spirits''
''Spirits are essential for a sahir — without them he cannot cast any spells — and so a good sahir will collect Arcane Connections to appropriate spirits, or learn summoning spells he can use for the same purpose. Also, since the sahir’s magic is basically channeled through the spirit he summons, the spirit’s nature and personality alters the sahir’s magic in subtle ways (in much the same way that spells cast by a Hermetic magus show evidence of his casting sigil). Thus, the unique qualities of the spirit a sahir calls have significant influence on his magic. A starting sahir should choose one spirit that he can summon to be the focus of most of his magic, and assume that he has an Arcane Connection to it. He should also note something about its personality and powers in order to describe a cosmetic effect that accompanies his magic whenever he involves that spirit. If he has spent any of his experience points on summoning spells, he may choose a spirit for each one. Unless he has a Virtue like Ghostly Warder or a Flaw like Magical Spirit Companion, he cannot assume that any of these spirits will do him any favors with''
''out being paid for their services or being compelled by his magic.''
''Laboratory Activities''
''Players can trade 10 experience points during character creation to have their sahirs spend a season in the laboratory instead of studying, but only as many times per year as the character has free seasons. In this season, the character may perform any seasonal summoning activity described under Solomonic Magic. Assume that the character has access to half the maximum amount of vis as he can spend on the activity, and that he is working in an aura with no bonus or penalty. For activities that affect a spirit during character creation, such as the khadim bond or a greater binding, the sahir must have an appropriate Virtue or Flaw that gives him a willing spirit companion.''
''Aging and Warping''
''Characters 35 years or older need to make an Aging roll for each year. Note that knowledge of Solomonic Alchemy and Solomonic Physic can influence the character’s Aging rolls (see The Solomonic Art, Magical Defenses, later in this chapter). A typical sahir also gains 2 Warping Points each year after he starts studying and practicing Solomonic magic.''

==Solomonic Magic==

''The sahirs’ magic comes from their ability to summon spirits and direct them in limited ways. Over the many years they have been practicing this, sahirs have developed ways to modify their summoning powers so that instead of causing a spirit to manifest within a circle or other mystic container, they can draw upon its power to create other magical effects. These supernatural means of affecting a target with Solomonic magic are collectively called “the Solomonic Art,” but each power is''
''also a “Solomonic art.” These arts (not technically Arts but rather Accelerated Supernatural Abilities) are described in more detail later in this chapter. The Solomonic Art can be used in two ways: to quickly cast memorized spells, or for long-term magical projects over a season or more. The former is called formulaic summoning, and the latter is called seasonal summoning. Every sahir has (or should have) a summoning power, such as Sihr, that is used to summon a spirit or other sort of being and negotiate with it. Sahirs refer to this power as their summoning art, but Sihr is sometimes considered a Solomonic art in its own right, and part of the Solomonic art as a whole (see The Solomonic Arts, Sihr).''

==Solomonic Spells (Naranjs)==

''A sahir’s spells are a recipe for drawing upon a summoned spirit’s power in a way that creates a magical effect. This formula is called a naranj (“spell”). Sahirs generally know many naranjs, which they cast much as Hermetic magi cast their spells — by concentrating for a moment and speaking an incantation while gesturing at the target. Learning to cast a naranj takes a season of work in a special laboratory (described under Seasonal Summoning, in the next part of this section).''
''Summoning Spells''
''The most basic form of naranj available to sahirs uses their summoning art, and summons a spirit to a prepared place within a few paces of the caster. This is called a summoning spell. Unlike using their summoning art, this naranj only takes a moment and does not cost any fatigue or vis. The sahir is still warded against the spirit, and as usual the spirit likely wants something in return for whatever service the sahir asks. To cast a summoning spell, the player rolls a stress die and adds Presence plus his score in his summoning art, as well as his modifier for the aura.''

[|

==Sample Sahir: ‘Arkhaman Laqy al-Hayz al-Nahr==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 25 (25) Warping Score: 2 (2) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Sahir, Vizier, Wise One; Gentle Gift, Sihr (Magic); Arcane Lore, Puissant Solomonic Travel (free); Magic Addiction, Infernal Spirit Companion; Reckless, Sheltered Upbringing, Tainted with Evil Personality Traits: Optimistic +3, Reckless +3, Friendly +2, Brave –1 Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage –1 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (Solomonic usage), Area Lore: Sana’a 3 (people), Artes Liberales 2 (lab work), Awareness 2 (alertness), Bargain 3 (with Kharrat), Concentration 2 (regaining control), Finesse 2 (casting multiple effects), Infernal Lore 5 (spirits), Magic Lore 2 (spirits), Penetration 2 (Infernal spirits), Profession Scribe 5 (copying''
''lab texts), Stealth 2 (sneaking) Sihr: 10, Alchemy: 0, Astrology: 5, Physic: 0, Storytelling: 5, Travel: 10+2 Spells Known: Kharrat, the braggart (Infernal Might 10/+12) What are the words that surround [Target]? (Astrology 15 Ritual/+7) [Spirit], his arms wide (Storytelling 10/+7) Make their eyelids heavy and their heads to fall (Storytelling 15/+7) Through the gray haze (Travel 20/+14) [Spirit] brings the curse of Bayna (Travel 25/+14) We will meet again as the seasons turn (Travel 25 Ritual/+14) Appearance: ‘Arkhaman is a pale man with black hair, thin eyebrows and a curled moustache. He has an innocent twinkle in his eye and a confident smile. He wears a hooded robe that has seen very little travel, baggy clothes, and he is likely sitting down. The suggestion of a demonic spirit might hover over his left shoulder (see Kharrat, later).''
''The boy Laqy was born at the bayt al-hikma of Sana’a to a woman who desperately wished to keep him hidden from the imam, her uncle. His father was a spirit of flame, she said, a beautiful jinni with black eyes. Delivered in''
''secret, the child was raised at the academy and desired only to serve the sahirs, but as he grew older, his resemblance to the important family became more pronounced. They decided to bring him into the Suhhar, and initiated him into Sihr. The first spirit he summoned was the being he believes to be his father: an Infernal jinni named Kharrat. Kharrat is a pompous and arrogant spirit who believes that ‘Arkhaman’s desire to please his father will lead him to evil, and thinks he has him completely tamed. ‘Arkhaman is naive, but has been warned by the older sahirs not to let Kharrat take advantage of him. So far, he has been able to control the jinni with vis, but as soon as possible Kharrat will get him to accept a duty and agree to seek out his mother. The shame that his presence will bring to her delights the wicked spirit. ‘Arkhaman only recently manifested The Gift, and the power he now wields has made him a bit wild. When he casts a spell, he often cannot resist casting another (because of his Magic Addiction Flaw), and his presence generally makes those without The Gift uncomfortable (Tainted with Evil). His masters believe he needs to meet other Gifted sahirs or he will go mad; thus they have elected him their vizier and are sending him to Baghdad this summer to represent them.''

|]
''Summoning Total: stress die + Presence + summoning art + aura''
''Ease Factor: spirit’s Might Score''
''To succeed, the sahir must penetrate the summoned spirit’s Magic Resistance. Just as magi often do, sahirs can use Arcane Connections and sympathetic magic to boost their penetration — and since Solo''
''monic summoning spells are designed to affect specific spirits, each summoning spell incorporates the spirit’s True Name, which is a permanent Arcane Connection to that spirit. This allows the player to add 5 to the sahir’s Penetration score multiplier when casting that particular summoning spell or using other Supernatural Abilities that must penetrate that spirit’s Magic Resistance to have an effect. (This usually means that the sahir multiplies his Penetration score by 6, since his multiplier starts at 1.)''
''Penetration Total: Summoning Total + sahir’s Penetration''

===Bonus – Spirit’s Might Score===

''Formulaic and Ritual Spells''
''The most common type of naranj that sahirs learn are formulaic spells, which require that the sahir has already summoned a spirit and convinced it to serve him. (For''

[|

==Kharrat the Braggart, an Infernal Jinni==

''Order: Tempter (Shaitan) Infernal Might: 10 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +3, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Jinni; Greater Malediction (bound by bargains); WeakWilled Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Proud +3, Cruel +3 Reputations: none Hierarchy: 1 (Shaitan) Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +9, Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (threats), Brawl 6 (fist), Charm 6 (bragging), Concentration 2 (maintaining spells), Folk Ken 3 (temptation), Penetration 3 (Vim), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Apparition, 1 point, Init 0, Imaginem: Kharrat may assume an illusory form that only his chosen victim, ‘Arkhaman, can perceive. To ‘Arkhaman, the form appears to be a real person in all respects. Protection of the Close Friend, 0 points, Init +3, Mentem: The chosen victim of Kharrat cannot act directly against it without extreme provocation; it would be akin to attacking one’s own''
''mother. The victim may be as angry as they like with the demon, but actually physically opposing it requires a huge effort of will, which must be repeated every time the victim wants to renew his attacks. Control Human, 2 points, Init equal to Qik, Mentem. If this power penetrates, Kharrat exerts direct control over its companion. It can issue commands that the target carries out to the best of his abilities; however, the target can attempt to break the control of the jinni every time he is asked to do something contrary to the tenets of his faith. Envisioning, 1 or 2 points, Init +2, Mentem. This Power allows Kharrat to appear in the dreams of its sleeping companion (in which case it costs 1 point), or make the target experience a waking dream or vision (in which case it costs 5 points). The shaitan cannot instantly make substantial changes to a dream, but instead gradually twists it to take on darker and more frightening tone, and can speak through any figure from the victim’s subconscious. A waking dream is more obvious; the victim suffers an immediate and powerful hallucination of whatever the demon desires. This may be so frightening that the victim is stunned for a round, and must make a Brave Personality roll against an ease Factor of 9 or have an extreme reaction, such as retching, convulsions, or abject terror. This is the preferred way a qareen commu''
''nicates with its chosen companion. Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Overconfident. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31. Weakness: Protected Group (A victim who willingly and totally rejects him, fueled with a Confidence Point), Protected Group (individuals that invoke the Bismallah invocation) Vis: 2 pawns of Ignem in its eyes Appearance: Kharrat looks like a normal man with pale skin and completely black eyes that give off smoke like smoldering coals. He is generally in spirit form, where no one can see him.''
''Kharrat is a pompous and arrogant jinni (see Chapter 4: The Jinn). He desires nothing more than to corrupt and control the sahir named ‘Arkhaman, who believes him to be his father. At every opportunity, he encourages ‘Arkhaman to behave recklessly and with sinful pride by goading him through his dreams, or by affecting him with his Obsession power. His plan is to help ‘Arkhaman to become a powerful sahir under his control, and then force him to help Kharrat rise in the infernal hierarchy by fighting other demons. When used to channel Solomonic magic, Kharrat is strongly associated with a sickly shade of yellow, like tarnished brass or sandy mud. This colors ‘Arkhaman’s magic much like a wizard’s sigil affects Hermetic spells.''

|]
''a sahir with a spirit companion, this means that he must still formally summon the spirit using a summoning spell or his summoning art before it can channel his magic for him.) They use the sahir’s knowledge of the Art to direct his summoned spirit’s power into a magical effect. When casting formulaic spells, the sahir must have summoned the spirit that powers the effect himself, he must be close enough to the spirit that it can see him and hear his voice, and he must either speak in a firm voice with bold gestures or perform a mundane activity associated with the effect. For example, when casting a formulaic spell associated with Solomonic Physic, the sahir may choose to administer to the patient as a physician rather than obviously performing sorcery. Using an Ability in this way generally adds about 15 minutes per magnitude of the spell to the casting time, but becomes more difficult to recognize as a magical effect. For example, to see through the cover activity, a suspicious character might roll his Perception + the Ability against the sahir’s Presence + the Ability. Success would suggest to the suspicious character that the sahir is doing something unusual, though he still might not know what that is. Whenever a sahir summons a spirit, either using a summoning spell or his summoning art, note the difference between his Summoning Total and the spirit’s Might Score. This is called the sahir’s Summoning Strength. It describes the amount of extra supernatural power that the sahir''
''has drawn from the spirit during the summoning, and applies to every naranj cast through that particular spirit (and typically improves his position when bargaining with it as well). Some summoning arts allow the sahir to summon a spirit even if his total does not exceed the target’s Might Score; a negative Summoning Strength means the sahir is less able to direct his magic through that particular spirit, and thus gives him a penalty to his casting total.''
''Summoning Strength: Summoning Total – spirit’s Might Score''
''Casting a formulaic spell requires that the sahir’s player make a stress roll, to which is added his Presence, his score in the Solomonic art associated with the effect, his Summoning Strength, and his aura modifier. If the sahir performs the effect using an Ability, add his Ability score to the total.''
''Formulaic Spell Casting Total: stress die + Presence + Solomonic art + Summoning Strength + aura (+ appropriate Ability, if used)''
''Ritual spells are more powerful formulaic spells. They cost vis — one pawn of an appropriate type for each magnitude of the effect — and have ongoing durations that are maintained by the spirit and can last indefinitely. Any formulaic spell can be cast as a ritual spell, allowing the sahir''
''greater control over the effect (described in the guidelines later in this chapter). There are also many special guidelines for effects that are only ritual spells. To maintain a ritual spell, the spirit must concentrate. If it is distracted, make a Stamina + Concentration stress roll for it, with the Ease Factor varying on the severity of distraction. Failure means the effect ends. Whenever a sahir casts a naranj through a spirit that is already maintaining one or more ritual spells, the sahir’s player makes a Perception + Finesse roll with Ease Factor equal to (6 x (the number of active ritual spells)). If he fails, he cannot complete the spell and it has no effect. Most ritual spells allow the sahir to cancel them at will, and he may choose to do this before he rolls. Ritual spells cannot be disguised with an Ability, although the sahir may still draw upon his knowledge to increase his Casting Total. This adds fifteen minutes per magnitude of the spell to the casting time. Note that unlike Hermetic ritual spells, Solomonic ritual spells cast without incorporating an Ability only take a moment to cast, just like a formulaic spell.''
''Ritual Spell Casting Total: spend vis, stress die + Presence + Solomonic art + Summoning Strength''

===+ Aura (+ Appropriate Ability, If Used)===

''With both types of naranj, if the sahir’s Casting Total is less than the level, his Summoning Strength with that spirit is reduced by the difference, and he loses one Fatigue level for every 5 levels by which he missed. If this fatigue causes him to fall unconscious, the spell fails; otherwise, the effect manifests. If the target is protected by Magic Resistance, the effect must penetrate. To determine success, players use the spirit’s Penetration Total instead of the sahir’s, applying its realm interaction modifiers to determine if the target is affected. (This often means that it is advantageous for the sahir to summon an Infernal spirit when casting in an Infernal aura, for example.) Because the sahir is using the spirit’s power to penetrate, he cannot use Arcane Connections or sympathetic magic to boost the Penetration Total for his for''

[|

==Spells with Arcane Connections==

''Solomonic magic allows sahirs to invent summoning spells that incorporate a permanent Arcane Connection. This is very similar to a True Name, a supernatural formula similar to a spell that mystically identifies the target. Like any Arcane Connection, summoning spells do not stack with other Arcane Connections for increased Penetration, but may be combined with sympathetic connections such as the spirit’s horoscope or a symbolic representation of it for additional bonuses. These summoning spells and their associated Arcane''
''Connections can be taught to other sahirs and described in texts like any other spell. Solomonic magic has not yet incorporated Arcane Connections into other types of spells — perhaps because sahirs have few uses for an Arcane Connection once they have summoned a spirit — though this may be something that they are working on. Also, such a discovery would be a great benefit to magi, and an excellent subject for original Hermetic research (see Integration, Hermetic True Names, later in this chapter).''

|]
''mulaic or ritual spells, and the calculation always uses the spirit’s Penetration score, not the sahir’s.''
''Formulaic or Ritual Spell''
''Penetration Total: spirit’s Might Score + spirit’s Penetration bonus + spirit’s aura modifier – spell level''
''Finally, unless the sahir has The Gift, the highest level of formulaic or ritual spell he can cast is limited by the summoned spirit’s Might Score. For example, to cast a Level 35 formulaic spell, an unGifted sahir must summon a spirit with 35 Might or more. The Gift allows a sahir to make up the difference between his spirit’s Might and the effect level with his own inherent magical power, but unGifted sahirs do not have this advantage.''
''Spell Level Limit (unGifted): Might Score of summoned spirit''
''When sahirs botch their casting rolls, they receive one Warping Point for each 0 on the botch dice. If this gives them two or more Warping Points, they must check for additional bad effects (see Warping and Corruption, later in this chapter).''
''Vis (Taqa)''
''Sahirs use a great deal of vis, and they tend to describe it in unique terms, such as “the claw from the black beast Ashmael” or “magic incense made by Istvaan al-Makki.” The general term they use is taqa (TAWqa), which is also a unit of measurement. For example, a sahir might say he has four taqa in a red stone, warm to the touch; or a single taqa in the pelt of a holy lamb, innocent and pure. One taqa is functionally equivalent to one Hermetic pawn. By activating vis, a sahir can increase his Casting Total when casting formulaic or ritual spells. Each vis of a type appropriate to the effect gives him a +2 bonus. He can also increase his Summoning Total when casting a summoning spell using vis (this improves both his penetration and his Summoning Strength). Each vis that matches the form of the summoned spirit’s Might gives him a +2 bonus, and any''
''other type gives him a +1 bonus. He cannot spend more on a single naranj than his score in the associated art, however.''
''Vis Limit: score in summoning art (summoning spell) or Solomonic art''

===(formulaic Or Ritual Spell)===

''When casting ritual spells, the vis required for the effect counts toward this limit. This means that to cast a ritual spell, the sahir’s score in the associated art must always at least equal its magnitude.''

==Seasonal Summoning==

''The other sort of Solomonic magic is called seasonal summoning, because it''
''takes place over the course of a season. At the beginning of the process the sahir summons a spirit to him, and draws upon that spirit’s supernatural power over the course of the season to enable more intensive magical activities. It is essentially the sahir’s equivalent to Hermetic laboratory magic. The sahir performing a seasonal activity must have summoned a spirit at the beginning of the project, which must remain present for the entire season or his effort is wasted. It must maintain the effects as it does for ritual spells, essentially concentrating on what the sahir is doing, and so it cannot activate its powers or perform any other activities that require its attention that season. Most seasonal activities use a standardized total — called a “lab total” for convenience — this is the sahir’s Intelligence, his''
''score in the Solomonic art associated with the effect, his score in the mundane Ability associated with the lab activity, and his Summoning Strength with the spirit that is assisting him that season. He also receives his aura modifier for performing magic.''
''Lab Total: Intelligence + appropriate Solomonic art + appropriate Ability + Summoning Strength + aura''
''This is shortened later as a “(Solomonic art) + (Ability) Lab Total,” specifying the art and Ability associated with each activity. As with spells, unless the sahir has The Gift, all of his effects are limited by the spirit’s Might Score — for example, a sahir who has summoned a spirit with 15 Might cannot invent spells greater than Level 15.''
''Lab Effect Level Limit (unGifted):''

===Spirit’s Might Score===

''A Solomonic Laboratory''
''Like Hermetic labs, a sahir’s work space must be a room protected from the elements with at least 500 cubic paces of space. It requires equipment appropriate to the sahir’s fields of expertise and proper organization of materials; this takes a person with an academic and arcane background a single season to set up, after which it may be used with a –3 penalty to all activities. If a Solomonic laboratory is established or reorganized by a person with a score of 3 in one of the five Abilities associated with the Art (Area Lore, Artes Liberales, Medicine, Philosophiae, or Realm Lore), then the penalty to that activity is eliminated. For example, a sahir with Artes Liberales 3 and Philosophiae 3 could establish a laboratory with no penalty for alchemical (Philosophiae) or astrological activities (Artes Liberales), but would still have a –3 penalty to other lab activities. Literate sahirs working in laboratories take notes, usually in Arabic, which can produce lab texts that other sahirs may study. These work just like Hermetic lab''
''texts (ArM5, pages 101–102). Sahirs can also assist each other in the laboratory, and this practice is much more common in the Suhhar than in the Order of Hermes — so much so that their process is more efficient and effective than the Hermetic version. All participants must have the required Solomonic arts, and one of the sahirs working on the project must have a Leadership score equal to (the number of participants – 1). Each sahir who participates in the project adds his Intelligence to the lab total, plus his score in the Ability related to the effect, and the final result uses the highest value among the participants in the appropriate Solomonic art. Only the sahir with the highest Solomonic art must summon a spirit to assist them that season. This means that it is common to involve a competent manager in a Solomonic lab activity, even one with a negative Intelligence, because it increases the number of sahirs who can work together. Not counting time spent away from the lab for sleep and weekly religious observances, sahirs may miss up to ten days of a seasonal activity with no penalty. Beyond this, the sahir’s lab total receives a –10 penalty, and –2 for each work day missed. If multiple sahirs are working together, the number of person-days that may be missed with no penalty is multiplied by the number of participants, and any penalty is divided by this same number, rounding up. For example, three sahirs may miss up to 10 days each with no penalty, or only one of them may miss up to 30 days. If together they miss a total of 34 days (perhaps because two were absent 10 days and the third was gone for 14 days), their lab total would receive a –6 penalty (–10 for more than 30 days, –2 for each of four days over 30, yielding a penalty of –18, divided by 3 for –6). Players should not include the scores for any sahirs who fail to contribute at least 10 days of work, and if any individual sahir’s penalty before dividing exceeds the overall lab total, the entire project simply fails. Sahirs can perform more than one lab activity in a season. Add together the effect levels required for all of the activities, and use the lowest lab total among them. As long as this is great enough to equal''
''or exceed the sum of all effect levels, any number of activities may be performed at once. For those activities where progress is measured by how much the sahir’s lab total exceeds the effect level, divide the excess among all activities, rounding down any fractions.''
''Vis Manipulation''
''A sahir with Solomonic Alchemy can extract vis from a supernatural aura as a seasonal activity, concentrating the power of the realm into a specific object. This produces a number of pawns of what magi call Vim vis, equal to one-tenth his Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total.''
''Vis Extraction: pawns equal to (Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total) / 10''
''Sahirs can also forcefully remove vis from supernatural beings or enchanted objects. This is an excruciating process for creatures that feel pain, which must be restrained for the season, and is considered a grave offense by the Suhhar when practiced on unwilling jinn or other intelligent spirits. A maximum number of vis equal to one-fifth of the sahir’s Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total can be removed in one season. For each pawn removed, either the supernatural being’s Might Score is reduced by 1, one invested effect is removed from an enchanted device, or one pawn’s worth of space is cleared from an invested object with no invested effects. If the sahir’s (lab total / 5) is greater than the pawns this would yield, no additional vis is produced. Removed vis is affiliated with the realm of the being or the power that created the enchanted object, and is of a type appropriate to the effect or Might of the being.''
''Vis Removal: pawns equal to (Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total) / 5''
''A sahir can also transfer vis from one object into another, a number of pawns equal to half his Solomonic Alchemy''
''+ Philosophiae Lab Total. This is commonly used to separate large chunks of vis into more manageable units, and does not work on vis that is part of a living creature or has been invested into an enchanted device. The process usually destroys the original vessel, and if an object contains more vis than the sahir can transfer, the excess is lost.''
''Vis Transfer: pawns equal to (Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total) / 2''
''Sahirs have a limit on the number of pawns of vis they can use on any seasonal activity, equal to their score in the associated Solomonic art. For example, a sahir with Solomonic Alchemy 10 can only extract 10 pawns of vis from an aura in a single season.''
''Vis Limit: score in associated Solomonic art''
''Arcane Connections''
''Like Hermetic magi, sahirs can fix Arcane Connections, making them permanent. This costs them a pawn of Vim vis, and requires a score of at least 1 in Solomonic Astrology (because of the vis limit). When performing multiple activities in one season, this activity is considered a Level 5 effect.''
''Fix Arcane Connections: Solomonic Astrology + Artes Liberales Lab Total''
''Sahirs can also transfer an Arcane Connection from one object to another. This requires a pawn of Vim vis and an appropriate object to become the new connection. I t does not affect the original connection, and so creates a new Arcane Connection. When performing multiple activities in one season, this is considered a Level 5 effect.''
''Transfer Arcane Connections: Solomonic Astrology + Artes Liberales Lab Total''
''Naranjs''
''Sahirs learn their spells using the same mechanics as magi. They can invent a number of formulaic or ritual spells with total level equal to their teacher’s highest applicable lab total, substituting the teacher’s score in Teaching for the associated Ability; or by the sahir collecting enough points above the spell level in the associated art + Ability lab total over the course of one or more seasons to equal it. Sahirs often make use of laboratory texts to speed this process.''
''Learning Spells: spell levels equal to teacher’s highest''

===Applicable Teaching Lab Total===

''Inventing Formulaic or Ritual Spells:''

===(appropriate Art + Appropriate Ability===


===Lab Total – Effect Level) Points Towards Spell Level===

''Summoning spells use the teacher’s Solomonic Astrology + Teaching Lab Total or the sahir’s Solomonic Astrology + Artes Liberales Lab Total (though summoning spells are so widespread that the sahir does not need to know Solomonic Astrology to do this). The spell level is the spirit’s Might Score, and unless the sahir has a Laboratory Text he must possess an Arcane Connection to the spirit, or else it must be present in the lab for part of the season. If a sahir knows the True Name of a spirit (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 34-35), he can reinvent it as a summoning spell as if it were a Level 5 effect.''
''Inventing Summoning Spells: (Solomonic Astrology + Artes Liberales''

===Lab Total – Effect Level) Points Towards Spell Level===

''Bindings''
''Sahirs can attach their summoned spirits to inanimate objects, essentially creating magical devices that produce a magical effect designed especially for the object when activated. These are called''
''bindings. They can be given to others to use, even others who do not understand Solomonic magic. It is said the Umayyad wazirs and other early summoners who knew this process created many such devices, some of which still exist in hidden caches in the desert or within musty dwellings used by ancient sorcerers. Jabir, one of the members of the First Council, is said to have possessed a binding created by Solomon himself. The first type of binding is known as a lesser binding. This superficially ties the spirit to an object, creating a mystical connection between the two, and includes a trigger activity that releases the effect in a momentary burst of power. Lesser bindings take a season to make, and can hold any effect the sahir can invent, with level of up to half the sahir’s Philosophiae Lab Total. When binding ritual spell effects, the sahir spends the necessary vis as part of making the enchantment, and once activated the effect lasts for as long as the spirit maintains it.''
''Lesser Bindings: effect level equal to (appropriate art + Philosophiae Lab Total) / 2''
''Sahirs can also create a greater binding. This is where the spirit is held captive by an object to power an effect. The effects invested into this object continue indefinitely, and may activate repeatedly: each time someone performs a trigger action associated with an effect, that effect ends and is immediately cast again on another target chosen by the wielder. If the object is damaged or destroyed, all active effects cease and the associated spirits are freed. While bound, the spirit may be summoned, but it cannot use any of its powers, regenerate its Might Pool, move from where it is summoned, communicate more than short sentences, power Solomonic naranjs, or maintain other ritual spells. The Suhhar forbids sahirs from binding an intelligent spirit in this way, but there are many types of unintelligent spirits that are ideal for this sort of application (elemental spirits, for example). To make a greater binding, the sahir must first enchant the object by which the spirit will be held captive. This enchant''
''ment binds the spirit and any invested effects with Vim vis, which must be transferred into the object over the course of a season, “opening” it for the binding. Every object has a maximum number of pawns of vis it can hold, found by calculating the number of Base Points for the object’s size and material on the Material and Size Table (ArM5, page 97). There is no benefit to sahirs for using an object of any particular shape or material except one: a literal container (a bowl, jar, bottle, lamp, or even a skull) can hold twice as many pawns of vis, and the sahir receives a +5 bonus to his Lab Total whenever he binds an effect to it. The maximum number of pawns of vis the sahir can transfer into an enchantment in one season is equal to his Solomonic Alchemy score, but he may add vis to an enchantment in subsequent seasons as long as the maximum has not been reached. Enchanting an object for a greater binding is a Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae activity with level equal to the number of pawns invested. It is possible to open an object for enchantment and bind a spirit and effect to it in one season, as long as the character’s Lab Total is great enough to accommodate both activities.''
''Binding Enchantments: (Solomonic Alchemy + Philosophiae Lab Total – pawns of vis to be invested)''

===Points Towards the Number of Pawns of Vis To Be Invested===

''To bind a spirit and effect to an enchanted device, design the effect as a spell using the sahir’s Philosophiae Lab Total with the associated art. Each magnitude of the spirit’s Might Score and each magnitude of the effect takes up “space” in the object equal to one pawn from the initial enchantment. As long as there is enough space in the enchantment to accommodate both the effect level and the Might of the spirit, the sahir can perform the binding. He can even bind the spirit and effect in one season if his Philosophiae Lab Total is at least double the effect level; otherwise it takes multiple seasons to accumulate enough points to complete it.''
''Greater Bindings: (appropriate art + Philosophiae Lab''

===Total – Effect Level) Points Towards Effect Level===

''A sahir without Solomonic Alchemy may still bind spirits and effects to an ob''
''ject that has been opened by another. The sahir can place additional effects into the object in later seasons, as long as there is still space available, either by binding more spirits to the object or by binding the effect to a spirit that is already imprisoned in it. A bound spirit can only maintain one effect at a time. When the wielder activates a greater binding with a ritual effect, the bound spirit must spend a Might Point for each magnitude of the effect, which the spirit does not recover for as long as it is bound. If the spirit runs out of Might Points, its Might Score is reduced by 1 and its Might Pool is replenished. Once its Might Score is reduced to 0, it can do nothing but maintain the last effect it triggered. Spirits do usually regain their lost Might Scores eventually, though this typically takes a very long time, at least a year per Point lost, and often longer. A binding is an Arcane Connection to the bound spirit, and the spirit knows the triggering actions to activate the device. For sahirs, investigating enchantments is often as simple as summoning the spirit and asking what it can do.''
''Seeking and Scouring''
''A sahir can locate new spirits to summon as a seasonal lab activity. This requires knowledge of Solomonic Storytelling, an applicable Area Lore Ability, an Arcane Connection to the area he is searching, and a pawn of form-appropriate vis. The sahir casts a kind of magical net over the area that finds and holds an appropriate spirit. Then, he may either invite the spirit to visit him in his laboratory, which is called seeking, or force the spirit to come to him, which is called scouring. The maximum value of the spirit’s Might Score is equal to the sahir’s Solomonic Storytelling + Area Lore Lab Total when seeking, or half the that total when scouring.''
''Maximum Might Score (Seeking): Solomonic Storytelling + appropriate Area Lore Lab Total''
''Maximum Might Score (Scouring):''

===(solomonic Storytelling + Appropriate Area Lore Lab Total) / 2===

''Either activity brings a spirit applicable to the sahir’s summoning art by the end of the season, causing it to appear within a magic summoning circle that prevents it from affecting anyone or anything outside the ring for as long as it remains unbroken. When summoned by seeking, the spirit may return to where it came from at any time; when summoned by scouring the spirit is held captive. In either case, the sahir can return it by simply looking at it and concentrating. The sahir cannot decide what spirit comes, as the magic targets the area, not individual spirits. This means that the spirit summoned by this activity is essentially up to the storyguide to describe. See the various Realms of Power books for powers a summoned spirit might have, and what spirits with different Might Scores look like. In the Mythic Middle East, jinn are common, as are elemental spirits. Infernal spirits are also especially likely (though since it is a form of magical detection, they are never forced to answer a scouring), and Divine spirits are generally unlikely. Ultimately, the storyguide should choose a spirit for the sahir that will enhance the story the players are telling.''
''Warding''
''A sahir can enchant an area or object with the power to repel spirits appropriate to his summoning art. The sahir devotes a season to preparing the effect, and then draws a mystic circle on the ground or on an object and ceremonially imbues it with magic by spending a pawn of Vim vis. (The vis and the formula for the ward may be taken from the laboratory and used once to enchant a circle drawn in an outside location, as long as both the sahir and the spirit through which he casts it participated in the lab activity.) Any spirits normally targeted by the sahir’s summoning art cannot touch the person carrying the object or affect him with their powers, or cannot cross the circle or affect anything on the other''
''side of it. They also cannot affect the enchanted circle or the object itself. These effects last until the object is damaged or destroyed, or the circle is broken, either deliberately or by the deteriorating forces of age or climate. Creating a ward is a Solomonic Travel + (Realm) Lore activity, of the realm affiliated with the sahir’s summoning art, and his lab total determines the maximum Might Score the ward can affect.''
''Maximum Might Score Warded: Solomonic Travel + (Realm) Lore Lab Total''
''Solomonic wards must penetrate the Magic Resistance of any spirits affected by them. Calculate the sahir’s Penetration Total based on the Might of the spirit powering the effect, minus the level of the ward. As with spells, the sahir cannot improve the spirit’s Penetration bonus with Arcane Connections, though a supernatural aura at the site of the ward can modify the effect’s Penetration Total.''
''Servant Spirits (Khuddam)''
''An intelligent spirit that agrees to serve a sahir and assist him with his magic may be enchanted with special properties that help the sahir whenever he casts spells through that spirit. This spirit is called a khadim (fem., khadima; pl., khuddam), meaning “servant,” and the enchantment is called “the khadim bond.” These terms are thought to derive from the name Al-Khidr, the spirit who served Al-Hajjaj of the First Council among others, and thus “servant” does not have a derogatory or submissive connotation in this context. To establish the khadim bond, the sahir generates a Realm Lore Lab Total no less than the spirit’s Might Score, using the Realm Lore associated with the spirit and his highest Solomonic art. He must also spend a number of form-appropriate pawns of vis equal to the magnitude of the spirit’s Might Score. This gives the sahir the same number of Bond Points (equal to the magnitude of the spirit’s Might Score) to spend on the following benefits:''
''Safety: Subtract 1 botch die from the sahir’s summoning, casting, and Fatra Bayna Avoidance rolls (see Warping and Corruption, later in this section). Casting: Add 2 to the sahir’s Casting Total. Finesse: Add 3 to the sahir’s Finesse rolls. Concentration: Add 2 to both the spirit’s and the sahir’s Concentration rolls. Penetration: Add 5 to the spirit’s Penetration Total.''
''From then on, whenever the sahir summons and casts spells through that spirit, he receives the benefits of all Bond Points he has invested into it. These benefits are purchased on a pyramid scale, so that 3 Bond Points spent on Safety subtracts 2 botch dice, and 10 Bond Points spent on Penetration yields a +20 bonus. A sahir may perform the lab activity more than once with the same spirit, but this only allows him to reallocate his Bond Points; the benefits are not cumulative. A sahir can create bonds with multiple spirits, though the same spirit cannot have a bond with more than one sahir.''
''Enchanting a Khadim: highest Solomonic art + (Realm) Lore Lab Total, equal to spirit’s Might Score''
''Al-Iksir (The Elixir of Life)''
''The secret of Al-Iksir was said to have been brought to the original council by Al-Hajjaj, who received it from Al-Khidr. The sahir summons a spirit into a liquid concocted from vis and other materials and then consumes it, taking properties of the spirit into himself. This frees the spirit and purifies the sahir, giving him a taste of immortality in exchange for experiencing Warping and other effects. The process is intensely personal, and while a sahir can invent his own formula based on another sahir’s laboratory text, he cannot make one for anyone but himself. Al-Iksir is a Medicine activity, using any of the traditional Solomonic arts: Solomonic Alchemy purifies the body, Solomonic Astrology aligns the sahir with beneficial influences, Solomonic Physic promotes overall health, Solomonic Story''
''telling nourishes the soul, and Solomonic Travel exposes the sahir to favorable otherworldly environments.''
''Al-Iksir: highest Solomonic art + Medicine Lab Total''
''The process takes a season of effort, and costs a number of form-appropriate pawns of vis equal to the sahir’s (Lab Total / 5). This gives him the same number of Al-Iksir Points to spend on the following beneficial effects:''
''Al-Iksir Points: 1 Beneficial Effects: Remove an Aging Point; Reduce Age and Apparent Age by 2; Reduce Apparent Age by 10''
''Al-Iksir Points: Points equal to the absolute value of the Characteristic. Beneficial Effects: Improve a decreased Characteristic by 1, though not above the character’s starting score.''
''After the potion is consumed, the sahir must also spend the same number of Al-Iksir Points on the following negative effects:''
''Al-Iksir Points: 1 Negative Effects: Gain two Warping Points and check for Fatra Bayna (see Warping and Corruption); Lose memories and associated knowledge, removing a simple die’s worth of experience points, usually starting with childhood.''
''Al-Iksir Points: 2 Negative Effects: Gain an eccentric Personality Trait at +3, or increase this Trait by 1 if the sahir already has one, which becomes an obsession at +6 and madness at +10.''
''Al-Iksir Points: 3 Negative Effects: Gain a Minor Flaw appropriate to the spirit’s influence.''
''The spirit’s Might Score is also temporarily reduced by the number of Al-Iksir Points spent; this lost Might generally returns at the rate of one point per year. Once a sahir takes the potion, he begins to age as an adult, even if he is not''
''yet 35 years of age. For this reason, most sahirs wait until they reach old age before concocting Al-Iksir, preferring to experience its dramatic changes much later in life. Note also that sahirs have no way to remove Decrepitude Points, which will continue to accumulate as they gain Aging Points, and which will still eventually lead them to aging crises and death.''
''Initiating the Arts''
''It is a relatively simple process for a Gifted teacher to pass on the Solomonic arts to another student with The Gift. The teacher, a spirit summoned by the teacher, and the student with a summoning art spend a season together in a Solomonic lab, and the teacher performs a powerful ritual that opens all five Solomonic arts. This is a Magic Lore activity that is also associated with Solomonic Travel, but since it has been fully integrated into Solomonic magic, it does not require that the teacher possess that art. Any art in which the teacher does not have at least a score of 5 gives the student the Deficient Technique Flaw. If the student has any non-Solomonic Supernatural Abilities or Arts, add their scores together and double the result, adding 10 if The Gift has already been opened. Compare this to the teacher’s Opening Total, which is half his Solomonic Travel + Magic Lore Lab Total; if this Opening Total is less than the sum of the character’s scores in his powers, the teacher cannot initiate the student.''
''Opening Total: (Solomonic Travel + Magic Lore Lab Total) / 2''
''In order to pass on the magical secrets associated with the Art of Solomon to those who did not have The Gift, Muhammad al-Fazari — one of the six unGifted members of the First Council — discovered how to use his guardian spirit to initiate them through the power of the Magic Realm. Many of his line believe that this discovery, more than any other, led to the golden age of sahirs and the formation of the Suhhar Sulayman. This process also works on Gifted stu''
''dents who have already been opened to another tradition, and for sahirs without a summoning art or who come to the tradition from another one, this is typically their best method of entry. The process involves the teacher summoning a willing spirit to carry the student, in spirit form, into the Magic Realm. During the season, the student undergoes a sort of dream journey appropriate to the spirit, while his physical body remains in the lab in a deep sleep. The experience is very similar to what happens to Hermetic magi when they experience Twilight — he might find himself in the physical world, but in a ghostly form that is unable to affect his surroundings; or in a surreal environment surrounded by other spirits interrogating him, urging him to prove his worth; or reliving events of his past as if they were happening to him again. While the student is in this state, his teacher performs the opening ritual and calculates his Opening Total. If this is 30 or more, the student gains a Major Virtue associated with the Art of Solomon that is also possessed by the teacher, usually a Solomonic or a summoning art. With a total of 25, he gains the Major Virtue but also receives a Minor Flaw. With only 15, he gains the Major Virtue and a Major Flaw. These Flaws should be tied to the student’s travels in the Magic Realm. Before the process is complete, the teacher spends form-appropriate vis equal to half the necessary Opening Total (7, 12, or 15 pawns of vis), and the spirit’s Might Score is reduced by the same amount. This reduction is not permanent, but it generally takes at least a year for the spirit to recover each point. The student also gains two Warping Points, though no check for Fatra Bayna (see Warping and Corruption, later in this section) is required. To initiate an unGifted student in a summoning art and all five Solomonic arts using this method is time-consuming, visconsuming, and Might-consuming, and tends to produce sahirs with a weak grasp on reality due to accumulated Warping and Flaws. This is why unGifted sahirs tend to group in families, and generally teach their summoning art and Solomonic specialty only.''
''Experimentation''
''While it is nothing so grand as Hermetic arcane experimentation, sahirs have a means of producing unexpected results in their laboratories, and by sharing these discoveries they can improve their tradition’s magic in slow and incremental steps. Because it requires that the sahir have more than one Solomonic art or power, Gifted sahirs tend to be the most inventive. When designing a new effect, either inventing a formula or binding a spirit, the sahir may declare that he is experimenting by incorporating a second art or another power into the effect. His lab total then uses the lower of these two Abilities or Arts, and the player adds a simple die to the sahir’s lab total. The player should give the storyguide some idea of what he is hoping to achieve, based on the two powers. After the project is completed, the sahir makes an experimental stress roll. On a 0, check for botches to see if there is a disaster; otherwise the result is a story event determined by the storyguide. If the die result is 12 or more, the sahir makes a unique discovery related to one or both of the powers included, which replaces the original effect. For all other rolls, the results include a side effect related to the secondary power. For example, a Storytelling/Astrology spell to put people to sleep might also tell the sahir the sleeping characters’ names. Sahirs with Solomonic Astrology may apply one-fifth of their Solomonic Astrology score to these rolls (see The Solomonic Art, Magical Defense Bonuses, later in this chapter). This does not prevent them from botching if they roll a 0, but makes a discovery more likely. Sahirs with the Inventive Genius Virtue may similarly add 3 to these rolls. If multiple sahirs are working together on an experimental project, the players make a die roll for each participant, modified by appropriate Virtues and Solomonic Astrology scores, but also subtracting the number of participants from all of their totals. For example, if there are three sahirs working together, each of them receives a –3 to their result. If no one botches and at least one character achieves a total of 12 or more, they make a unique discovery. Otherwise, there is an appropriate side effect.''
''Unique discoveries from an experiment can be used to improve Solomonic magic in much the same way that magi improve Hermetic theory. If the sahir achieves a discovery and spends a subsequent season duplicating his efforts, and gets no 0s on the experimentation rolls, he stabilizes it and generates a number of Breakthrough Points equal to the effect’s magnitude. (He also gains this many Warping Points minus a simple die.) These Breakthrough Points accumulate to produce Minor, Major, or Solomonic Breakthroughs that can change how sahirs practice magic. (See Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 26-30.)''

==Warping and Corruption==

''When a sahir receives two or more Warping Points as a result of a magical botch, there is the chance that he will lose control. Instead of channeling the spirit’s power as he desires, the spirit’s power overtakes him. He typically blacks out and awakens in another place: lost in an otherworldly desert with nine moons and sand of every color; or perhaps held as a prisoner in the castle of his enemy, locked in a dark dungeon; or perhaps even bound in the position of his summoned spirit, watching as the spirit performs magic while drawing upon the sahir’s own life energy. Sahirs call this place (which many believe is separate from the Magic Realm) Bayna ((BEY-na), “Between”), and the experience Fatra Bayna ((FA-tra BEY-na), “Time Between”). Upon gaining the Warping Points, the sahir’s player may make a Stamina + Concentration roll (Solomonic Travel gives a Magical Defense Bonus to this roll, as described later). The Ease Factor is a stress die (no botch possible), plus the sahir’s Warping Score, plus the number of Warping Points he received, plus his aura modifier. If he rolls a 0, roll a botch die for each Warping Point gained. Success means there is no other effect. If he fails, he experiences Fatra Bayna.''
''Fatra Bayna Avoidance: stress die + Stamina + Concentration + Solomonic Travel bonus vs. stress die (no botch) + Warping Score + Warping Points received + aura''
''During Fatra Bayna, all of the sahir’s summoned spirits are released from his control, dispelled whether they want to depart or not, and all his active ritual effects end. What happens to his body varies; for some, it remains in stasis or transforms into a spirit form, while for others it continues to react and respond as if controlled by one of his summoned spirits. Some sahirs describe the experience as similar to what they imagine it is like for intelligent spirits, like jinn, when they are bound to an object or person against their will. The character continues to age while he is away, though he does not starve, asphyxiate, or suffer from exposure in the meantime. Fatra Bayna lasts approximately two minutes at minimum, to approximately one year maximum. This duration is determined by a secret simple die roll according to the following chart. The sahir’s player does have some influence over the results, even though he does not see the roll; he may add or subtract 3 by spending a Confidence Point, and if the sahir possesses Solomonic Travel, the player may also add or subtract his Magical Defense Bonus. (Players should add to the roll if they want a better chance of positive effects, or subtract from it for fewer Warping Points and less time spent away from the physical world.)''
''Die roll	 Duration	 Effects 1 or less Diameter +3 Corruption Pts 2–4 Sun +2 Corruption Pts 5–7 Moon +1 Corruption Pt 8–9 Season +1 Spirit Pt 10+ Year +3 Spirit Pts''
''When he returns, the sahir receives a number of Warping Points equal to the modified roll, and a number of Spirit or Corruption Points, as indicated on the chart. These are similar to experience points in that they must be spent immediately; Spirit Points provide beneficial effects and Corruption Points negative effects. Sahirs are more likely to gain Corruption Points than Spirit Points, and for this reason Fatra Bayna is generally regarded as a phenomenon that punishes careless sahirs. Those who benefit from it are admired (or envied) for their wisdom and endurance. Also, whenever a sahir’s Warping Score increases, he automatically receives an additional Corruption Point, which must be''
''spent next time he experiences Fatra Bayna. The storyguide may spend Spirit Points as follows:''
''Spirit Points: 1 Effects: Gain (Warping Score x 5) experience points in a summoning or Solomonic art; The sahir invents a new naranj with a level no greater than the sahir’s (Warping Score x 5); The sahir returns with (Warping Score x 5) vis of a type appropriate to the experience, collected within his person or his belongings; Gain 3 Confidence Points.''
''Spirit Points: 3 Effects:  Increase the sahir’s Confidence Score by 1;''
''Gain a +1 cumulative bonus to all social interactions (leading, teaching and bargaining, but not summoning or casting). While the effects of The Gift or similar Flaws are unchanged, the sahir becomes better at talking his way around them. The bonus does offset simple penalties to social rolls imposed by The Gift or Flaws, however. For example, a Gifted sahir with the normal Gift who takes this effect once has a –2 penalty to social rolls, but still suffers from the distrust and dislike inspired by The Gift; Gain a Minor Virtue appropriate to the experience, or remove a Minor Flaw.''
''Corruption Points have the following effects, also chosen by the storyguide:''
''Corruption Points: 1 Effects: Make an immediate Aging roll, adding the sahir’s Warping Score to the total; Suffer a Heavy wound; Gain a bad Reputation among spirits from the appropriate realm at 2, or increase this Reputation by 1 if the sahir already has one.''
''Corruption Points: 3 Effects: Gain a –1 penalty to all social interactions, which is cumulative with the effects of The Gift and similar Flaws; Gain a Minor Flaw appropriate to the experience, or lose a Minor Virtue.''
''Other sahirs and spirits who are familiar with the sahir can usually tell, upon the character’s return, whether the experience was positive or negative, though this otherworldly aspect fades quickly.''

==Integration==

''There is always the possibility that peaceful voices will prevail, and that magi and sahirs will work together to combine their magic into a unified tradition. Or perhaps one of them will learn enough about the other to steal their magical secrets and gain the upper hand. Here are some examples of discoveries that might be achieved in either case.''
''Hermetic True Names''
''Minor Breakthrough Experimenting with True Names and Solomonic summoning spells has led the magus to the discovery of means to incorporate an Arcane Connection into a formulaic spell, making it a permanent component of that spell. From then on, the magus no longer needs the physical object to affect that target or location or to invent new spells that target it through an Arcane Connection, and gains the bonus for a permanent Arcane Connection to his Penetration multiplier whenever he casts it. The new spell and associated Arcane Connection can then''

[|

==New Hermetic Virtues==

''Scientates Suleimanis''
''Major, Hermetic (Hermetic Breakthrough) This breakthrough Virtue allows a magus to invent and cast spells that use any of the non-Ritual Solomonic guidelines, using Rego with a Form appropriate to the target. This is similar to craft magic, where magi produce goods through magic labor. For example, a magus with this Virtue could use ReTe to duplicate the alchemical process by which a gem’s quality is enhanced, or ReCo to encourage the body to recover fatigue more quickly.''
''Hermetic Realm Initiation''
''Major, Hermetic (Hermetic Breakthrough) The magus may initiate students into Virtues in the same way sahirs do, by convincing a spirit to accompany the student into the Magic Realm. This uses the character’s Rego Vim Lab Total instead of Solomonic Travel, and substitutes Magic Theory for Magic Lore, but otherwise works the same way: costing vis, reducing the spirit’s Might Score, and Warping the student.''

==New Solomonic Virtues==

''Spontaneous Solomonic Spells''
''Major, Supernatural (Major Breakthrough) The sahir possessing this Breakthrough Virtue can cast formulaic spells spontaneously, the same way as magi do. To do this he must either lose a Fatigue level and divide his Casting Total by 2, or not roll the stress die and divide his Casting Total by 5.''
''Independent Solomonic Magic''
''Major, Supernatural (Solomonic Breakthrough) The sahir can cast and maintain Solomonic spells without channeling them through a spirit. This does not add his Summoning Strength to his Casting Total, and uses his Penetration Total instead of the spirit’s. If he is unGifted, his independent spells and effects cast this way have no maximum level.''

|]
''be taught or written into a lab text for others to invent.''
''Scientates Suleimanis''
''Hermetic Breakthrough By studying the Solomonic arts and the Abilities associated with them, the magus gains Insight into the way Solomonic magic allows sahirs to duplicate natural effects associated with science, emotions, and the supernatural realms. The magus then invents experimental Rego spells that produce similar effects. Once the breakthrough is achieved and the associated Virtue distributed, magi will be able to duplicate any Solomonic formulaic spell, including those overcoming the Limit of Energy.''
''Hermetic Realm Initiation''
''Hermetic Breakthrough After undergoing the initiation himself, instead of gaining a Solomonic art, the magus gains Insight into the Solomonic initiation process. This might produce a spell to warp another person with magic, or a ritual to open him to a Virtue possessed by the caster. This research eventually leads to a breakthrough with which the magus may initiate others into new Supernatural or Hermetic Virtues without the secrecy and lore of a Mystery Cult. Soon powerful magi may even learn to teach Hermetic magic to the unGifted, by initiating them into each Art.''
''Solomonic Devices''
''Minor Breakthrough The sahir must study enchanted items made with Hermetic magic, which gives him Insight towards bindings made with similar effects. Through experimentation, he learns to build devices that do not require a spirit, but maintain concentration on their own. This discovery likely leads to a great wealth of invested items throughout the Mythic Middle East and beyond, as sahirs would be free to create items with lasting effects without having to bind spirits to them.''
''Spontaneous Solomonic Spells''
''Major Breakthrough Sahirs would greatly benefit from the ability to cast spells they have not memorized. Studying Magic Theory provides Insight into this practice, perhaps yielding formulaic spells for which the sahir can change the parameters as he casts them. The Major Virtue this project produces would allow sahirs to cast spontaneous spells in the same way as magi, dividing their Casting Total by 2 or by 5. Because sahirs would need less time in their laboratories inventing new spells, this discovery could lessen the importance of buyut alhikma throughout the Suhhar, as more sahirs might prefer seeking out more spirits or other adventuring activities during their free seasons to learning new spells.''
''Independent Solomonic Magic''
''Solomonic Breakthrough By studying Hermetic magic, a sahir could remove his need to channel a''
''spirit’s power. This requires him to initiate at least one Hermetic Technique and one Hermetic Form and study Magic Theory, but the Insights produced from these sources lead to spells that could be cast independently of a summoned spirit, with the sahir maintaining the effects and using the sahir’s Penetration Total. This would be especially valuable for unGifted sahirs, as their spirits’ Might Scores would no longer limit their magic with these spells.''

==Solomonic Arts==

''The Art of Solomon, through its component arts, has a wide range of effects described by the guidelines in this section, with sample spells to demonstrate how these effects might be used. Players may safely assume that every listed guideline has been developed into a naranj at one time or another.''
''Most of the guidelines use magic to duplicate the natural results of practicing medieval science, and thus have a momentary and permanent duration. However, some effects require ritual spells because their effects cannot be reproduced with mundane abilities and, like all rituals spells, have temporary effects that last only as long as they are maintained. The sample spells sometimes reference a spirit by name (written as “[Spirit]”), but this is generally not exclusive. Unless the sahir has an appropriate Flaw, any spirit he summons may power any spell he casts.''

==Sihr==

''Sahirs use Sihr to summon jinn, and to provide mystic force behind the bargain that places a jinni into their service. Strictly speaking, Sihr is not a Solomonic art, but is so common among sahirs that many Ashab al-Halqa (“Followers of the Circle,” the sixth sahir “family”) consider it the special power of their lineage. In some texts the Seal of Solomon is drawn with six points — this is seen as an attempt by these sahirs to spread the idea that Sihr is just as integral to Solomonic magic as the other families’ powers. Sihr is said to originate from the legendary Art of Solomon, and is sometimes referred to as Solomonic Sihr, or (Solomonic) Summoning. It is very similar to the Sihr that is still practiced in Iberia, though the two traditions split almost two hundred years ago. Solomonic Sihr is slightly more compatible with Solomonic magic, though sahirs can use either version.''
''Discerning Jinn''
''Before a jinni is summoned, the sahir should study it to determine its strength. If the sahir can see spirits (with Second Sight, for example), then he can directly observe the jinni in its native habitat, and it takes him just a single round to make the necessary assessment. Without magical help, the sahir must use his knowledge of the local area to gather sufficient infor''
''mation about the spirit who dwells there; the player should make an Intelligence + (Area) Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to discover the Form that the jinni takes and its likely powers. It takes about an hour for the sahir to make this assessment. Once this preliminary research has been performed, the sahir can attempt to discern the jinni’s approximate Might, based on its appearance (if seen), its abode, and the sahir’s own knowledge. He must decide whether the jinni is Faerie, Magic or Infernal (based on its behavior and attitude), and make an Intelligence roll modified by the appropriate (Realm) Lore. Success reveals the magnitude of the jinni’s Might. Failure indicates the sahir is unable to guess, making summoning it more dangerous. The decision as to which (Realm) Lore to use is vital; if the player guesses wrongly, then this is a straight Intelligence roll. Since the player has no experience with jinn, the storyguide should make the distinction clear.''
''Discern Might: Intelligence + (Realm) Lore + stress die against Ease Factor of 9''
''Summoning Jinn''
''Once discerned, the sahir may summon the jinni and attempt to bind it into service. This summons requires the jinni to be within range of the sahir’s voice, or else he needs an Arcane Connection. The summons takes at least 15 minutes to perform, during which the sahir chants words of command, makes prescribed gestures, and draws symbols on the ground. The summons generally includes an offering of vis, one pawn of a type appropriate to the jinni’s form for every magnitude of the jinni’s Might Score, but the sahir can offer more (a maximum equal to the character’s Sihr score) or less (none, even). The sahir only has his own rough estimate of the jinni’s Might, so he may unwittingly offer more or less than the standard amount. This offering does not affect the Summoning Total, but it plays an important role in the bargaining which follows.''
''The sahir then generates a Summoning Total based on his Sihr score. A successful summons that also penetrates the jinni’s Magic Resistance forces it to take a physical form before the sahir. Calculate the Summoning Strength, which is the amount by which the sahir’s Casting Total exceeds the Ease Factor. A botched roll results in an infuriated jinni, or perhaps a spirit different than the one intended.''
''Summoning Total: Presence + Sihr + aura + stress die''
''Ease Factor: jinni’s Might Score''
''Summoning Penetration: Summoning Total + sahir’s Penetration''

===Bonus – Jinni’s Might Score===

''Summoning Strength: Summoning Total – jinni’s Might Score''
''A failed summons has no effect, though the sahir can try again at the cost of a Fatigue level. The sahir can spend extra time on a summons; each additional 15 minutes causes him to lose a long-term Fatigue level and adds another botch die to the Summoning roll, but provides a +5 bonus to his Penetration Total. He can also spend vis, each pawn of the appropriate form giving him a +2 bonus to his Summoning Total, or a +1 bonus for each pawn of any other type.''
''Bargaining with the Jinni''
''After the jinni arrives, the sahir must bargain with it to gain its services. The power of Sihr ensures that the jinni cannot depart or attack until a bargain is struck or they have agreed no bargain can be achieved. A sahir who refuses to bargain releases the jinni from making a pact. “Bargain” may be misleading; a skilled sahir can obtain the services of a weak jinni without offering anything in return. The arrangement is magically enforced: the jinni cannot break the terms unless the sahir reneges first, and most jinn will obey the spirit of the agreement if treated well. A sahir can attempt to strike a bargain with''
''any jinn, not just those he has summoned — for example, renegotiation following the lapsing of a previous bargain — and Summoning Strength can give him an oftneeded advantage.''
''Bargaining Total: Communication + Bargain + Summoning Strength + stress die''
''Ease Factor: 18 + bargaining modifiers''
''Situation Modifier Terms are general in scope +3 “Follow me around and do as I say.” Terms are specific in scope +0 “Help me locate the lost city of Babel.” Terms constitute a single task –3 “Escort me safely to Damascus.” Terms reduce Might Score +3/pt''
''Service to last one day –3 Service to last one week 0 Service to last one month +3 Service to last one season +6 Service to last one year +9''
''Sahir accepts a small duty –3/duty Sahir accepts a heavy duty –6/duty''
''Sahir offers less vis than is +2/pawn the standard under Sahir offers more vis than is –2/pawn the standard above Sahir offers different type of vis	 +1/pawn (modifier replaces +2 bonus)''
''Sahir has a bad reputation Special* among the jinn''
''* 	 Add each applicable Reputation score.''
''The Ease Factor has bargaining modifiers, which depend on what the sahir is asking from the jinni and what he offers. Aiding the sahir with his magic for a day is a single task, which reduces the Ease Factor by 6 (–3 for “Service to last one day” and –3 for “Terms constitute a single task”). A failed Bargaining Total results in a failure to make a bargain, and the jinni is not compelled to remain. A botch results in the sahir offending the jinni and temporarily acquiring either Supernatural Nui''
''sance Flaw (for a weak jinni) or Plagued by Jinni (for a moderate or powerful jinni), which lasts for at least a month. A successful bargain binds the jinni to the sahir for the duration. He can ask it to perform any task within its power, though the jinni cannot renege on any solemn oaths it has sworn prior to the summons and, for jinn who have adopted a religion,''
''this includes disobeying the tenets of their faith. The jinni cannot make any new oaths without the sahir’s permission while bound in service. Any vis offered by the sahir during the summoning is part of the terms of the bargain and given to the jinni to use as it sees fit, and thus cannot be included in whatever task the sahir sets the jinni. A sahir''

[|

==Typical Duties for Sahirs==

''The supernatural realm to which the jinni is aligned can greatly influence the duty that it sets the sahir. Infernal jinn typically demand sinful duties, while faerie jinn want human attention, and magic jinn desire power and wealth. (See Chapter 4: Jinn, for more details.)''
''Small Duties''
''These include cleansing or protecting the jinni’s home, guarding a human family to which the jinni has become attached, retrieving stolen wealth, writing''
''a poem in praise of the jinn, providing rare commodities such as frankincense or rubies, or obtaining vis from a particular source.''
''Heavy Duties''
''These include fighting wizards who seek to enslave jinn, freeing slaves from captivity, playing a jest on an important local figure, delivering the heart of an enemy, traveling to a supernatural realm where the jinni cannot go, or procuring a unique item such as a book written in Solomon’s own hand.''

==Non-Magic Sihr==

''The description of Solomonic Sihr assumes that the power is aligned to the Magic realm, which is its most common form. However, versions of Sihr aligned to other realms have the following mechanical changes:''
''Faerie Sihr''
''The sahir adds the value of his highest good Reputation to his Bargaining Total, subtracts his highest bad Reputation, and does not apply any other negative Reputations to his Bargaining modifier. The storyguide rules whether a particular Reputation is good or bad. (Sympathy Traits and Faerie Rank also apply to this roll, if you are using the rules from Realms of Power: Faerie.)''
''Divine Sihr''
''Though the sahir has no foreign aura penalties to his Summoning Total, he cannot offer vis, which always increases the Ease Factor of the Bargaining Total by twice the magnitude of the jinni’s Might Score.''
''Infernal Sihr''
''Failure on the Bargaining Total does not automatically permit the jinni to depart, and the sahir can hold it prisoner and continue to try and coerce it for as long as he likes, though each subsequent attempt costs him a Fatigue level. The storyguide should lower the Bargaining Total Ease Factor the longer the jinni is held captive: –1 after a day, –2 after a season, and –3 after a year.''

|]
''may offer vis of a different type than the jinni’s form, but it is less compelling. For example, when summoning a jinni with 10 Might (Imaginem), a sahir who offers two pawns of vis will have his bargain modifier reduced by 4. If that vis is not Imaginem vis, his bargain modifier is then increased by 2. Note that sahirs with The Gift typically suffer a penalty to all social interactions, which affects this total. (Unlike the Parma Magica, Magic Resistance does not protect supernatural beings against the negative aura of those with The Gift, though some magical beings are immune to the effects.)''
''A sahir can only bind a limited number of jinn in service to him at a time, equal to his Leadership score plus one — even a sahir with no Leadership score can command at least one jinni.''
''Maximum Number of Bound Jinn: Leadership + 1''
''Solomonic Sihr is the most common summoning art in the Mythic Middle East. It is usually aligned with the Magic realm, though there are Divine, Faerie, and Infernal versions, each with slight functional differences (see the Non-Magic Sihr sidebar).''

==Solomonic Alchemy==

''Solomonic Alchemy affects non-living matter, simple (water, air, fire, earth) or complex (i.e., metal, smoke, bone, wood). The sahir or the spirit must touch the target, and can affect up to one cubic pace of simple matter or 50 cubic inches of complex matter. Each additional magnitude added to the spell level multiplies the amount of matter he can target by 10. These effects have one parameter, Alteration, which determines the magnitude of natural change that the sahir can impose upon the matter. Thus, making dirt as sticky as clay is less difficult than making it as sticky as mercury.''
''Slight: The matter undergoes a subtle change in appearance or property, within the common range of examples for that matter. For example, give water the scent of the sea, or change the color of a standard gemstone. (+0 magnitudes) Minor: The matter undergoes a noticeable change in appearance or property. The change must be commonly found in nature, and of a general sort. For example, brighten moonlight to that of a torch, or condense air into a cloud. A Minor change can increase or decrease Size by one category. (+1 magnitude) Substantial: The matter undergoes a significant change in appearance or property, uncommon in nature. For example, make water as caustic as acid, or iron as flexible as copper. A Substantial change can increase or decrease Size by two categories. (+2 magnitudes) Major: The matter undergoes a total change in appearance or property, but no more than the extremes found in nature. For example, call lightning from a clear sky, or make stone as hard as diamond. A Major change can increase or decrease Size by three categories. (+3 magnitudes)''
''When performing Solomonic Alchemy through a mundane activity using Philosophiae, the sahir must apply various reagents, powders, tinctures, or other ingredients to the target. These are typically''

[|

==Magical Defenses==

''In the same way magi receive supernatural bonuses from their Form scores, sahirs have an innate form of “magical defense” from their Solomonic arts. Divide the sahir’s score in each art by 5 to determine his Magical Defense Bonus, and see later for the specific applications of each art.''

==Solomonic Alchemy==

''From regular exposure to magic, the sahir’s body is rarefied, making him stronger, better able to endure hardship, and more resistant to physical dangers. Add his bonus to Soak, subtract it from Aging rolls (this is cumulative with Solomonic Physic), and add it to Strength when calculating what he can carry without penalty.''
''Solomonic Astrology''
''Because of his heightened understanding of the heavenly signs and what they predict about the future, the sahir is more aware of events before they happen, and thus he is less likely to be surprised. Add his bonus to all of his Initiative rolls, and to his Perception rolls associated with alertness or with intuition. This also positively influences his experimentation in the laboratory.''
''Solomonic Physic''
''The sahir with knowledge of Solomonic Physic is generally healthier. Add his bonus to his Recovery rolls and subtract it from Aging rolls (this is cumulative with Solomonic Alchemy). In addition, he becomes less noticeable: add his bonus to rolls that involve being stealthy or unobtrusive, including his Defense when he is not attacking.''
''Solomonic Storytelling''
''The sahir’s presence is enhanced, giving him the bonus to rolls for non-magical social activities (cumulative with the bonus from Fatra Bayna) and increasing his Leadership score when commanding spirits or managing a laboratory. Also, he is more resistant to powers that target emotions; add his bonus to any rolls involving his Personality Traits.''
''Solomonic Travel''
''Exposure to the supernatural allows the sahir to add his bonus to otherworldly navigation rolls, and add or subtract it from his Fatra Bayna Avoidance rolls. He may also add this bonus to Stamina rolls to avoid fatigue, and to his Concentration and Finesse rolls when controlling his magic or resisting supernatural influences.''

|]
''provided by an apothecary, and many sahirs make their living collecting and selling such materials. See Art and Academe for more examples of alchemical effects.''
''Solomonic Alchemy Spell Formulas''
''The spells given here are specially designed for Solomonic Alchemy.''
''Sanctuary in the sand Solomonic Alchemy Level 5 Alteration: Minor This spell instantly purifies the area immediately surrounding the sahir (10 cubic paces), making stale air easier to breathe and removing choking dust or smoke. (Base 3, +1 Minor, +1 size)''
''[Spirit]’s oasis Solomonic Alchemy Level 5 Alteration: Slight, Ritual The sahir mixes a pawn of vis and a cubic pace of sand, and changes it into a pool of clear spring water, enough to fill several large barrels. This transformation only lasts as long as the spirit maintains the effect, though the ritual nature of the spell ensures that the water will still quench thirst if drunk before it changes back. Note, however, that characters with Magic Resistance cannot swallow this water unless the effect penetrates their defenses. (This is a Slight change, because the water produced is perfectly natural, and quite commonly found in this form.) (Base 5)''
''Cracks in the earth, [Spirit] weakens the ground Solomonic Alchemy Level 10 Alteration: Substantial With this spell, the sahir diminishes the cold, cohesive property of earth, causing a single rock or a circle of stone three feet in diameter to crumble into chunks of dirt and dust. (Base 4, +2 Substantial)''
''Summon forth the purest flame, to set alight those who oppose us Solomonic Alchemy Level 15 Alteration: Major The sahir takes a barely inflammable object like a damp cloth or a piece of wood coated with pitch, and lights the end of it. This spell changes the fire into a bright blue flame that burns hotter than even molten iron. This flame lasts until it runs out of fuel, can ignite things like flesh or wet thatch that are otherwise extremely resistant to fire, and causes +20 Damage to anyone that comes into direct contact with it. (Base 4, +3 Major)''
''The wind is my armor, my armor is the wind Solomonic Alchemy Level 15 Alteration: Slight, Ritual When preparing for a long journey,''
''the sahir casts this spell upon his mail hauberk. This costs three pawns of vis and transforms the heavy, worked metal into light, spun threads of cloth for the duration of the effect. The sahir typically instructs his spirit to drop the effect just before he goes into battle, which also frees the spirit to focus on other spells while the sahir is fighting. Since the Alteration parameter is Slight, the cloth that this spell produces is somewhat fragile and looks like woven chain links, but can be worn beneath a traveling cloak or gown. Increasing Alteration to Minor lets the sahir change the cut and look of the armor into something more fashionable, and Substantial allows him to change it into a completely different sort of garment. Another common variation is to add a magnitude of size to affect the barding on his horse. Magos al-Laqis al-Abyad al-Sakhr uses this spell in an interesting way: before he''

[|

==Solomonic Alchemy Guidelines==

''These guidelines distinguish between changes to principle qualities (hot, cold, dry, or moist) and secondary qualities (things like acidity, density, weight, or color) of matter. Ritual alchemy effects can be held dormant until the sahir or the spirit triggers them by concentrating upon them, for as long as the spirit maintains the effect, and may be transferred from one appropriate target to another as long as the effect is still active and the new target is touching the former target, the sahir, or the spirit (Finesse rolls are required if the new target is not clearly part of the original target). Animated objects will move under the sahir’s control if he concentrates upon them, but he must make Finesse rolls for more focused manipulation. Unlike basic Alchemy spells that bring about natural changes to the substance of the target, spells that use ritual guidelines produce a magical substance that for the duration cannot directly affect anyone with Magic Resistance unless the spell Penetrates.''
''Level 3: Enhance or diminish a secondary quality of simple matter.  Purify simple matter. Level 4: Enhance or diminish a principle quality of simple matter. Level 5: Enhance or diminish a secondary quality of complex matter.  Purify complex matter.  Transform simple matter into another kind of simple matter for the duration of the effect. (Ritual)  Increase or decrease the size of matter for the duration of the effect. (Ritual) Level 10: Enhance or diminish a principle quality of complex matter.  Animate simple matter for the duration of the effect. (Ritual)  Transform simple or complex matter into another kind of simple or complex matter for the duration of the effect. (Ritual) Level 15: Animate complex matter for the duration of the effect. (Ritual)  Transform matter for the duration of the effect, adding or removing properties like weight or temperature with the Alteration parameter. (Ritual)''

|]
''enters battle, he sends forth his guardian angel to touch the armor of one of his unsuspecting opponents, and then (with a successful Finesse roll) he transfers the effect to his armor instead, restoring his own protection and leaving his enemy suddenly vulnerable. (Base 10, +1 size)''
''Bear me upon breath of stone Solomonic Alchemy Level 20 Alteration: Minor, Ritual The sahir lights a bonfire that produces a great deal of smoke, and after he sacrifices the necessary pawns of vis, the gray clouds become as solid as stone, able to support the weight of a man. The sahir may then step onto these unnatural floes and rise into the air, or perhaps climb down them if he moves quickly, as long as the spirit maintains the spell and the fire continues to produce smoke. (This is a “noticeable” transformation, altering the ability of the smoke to bear weight to correspond to that of stone. A Substantial alteration might alter several properties of the smoke at once, perhaps making a cloud cohesive and enduring enough to support a structure, or cause the smoke to become cold and slippery as well as solid.) (Base 15, +1 Minor)''
''What Jabir found inside the rock Solomonic Alchemy Level 20 Alteration: Major This spell improves the quality of a precious or semi-precious gem, dramatically increasing its value. In addition, the Shape and Material bonus that the stone imparts when used with Hermetic magic increases by 3. For example, an emerald purified by this spell would give a +10 bonus to magic that affects snakes and dragonkind, instead of a +7 bonus. Any given stone can only be affected once with this effect; it is impossible to naturally purify it further. Sahirs are not supposed to trade “magic things” to people who do not belong to the Suhhar, but the exchange of gemstones that have been enhanced with this spell has so far gone unnoticed at Majlis. Perhaps this is because those of the''
''Ashab al-Qalb who use it do so sparingly enough that it has not come to the attention of the viziers, or perhaps it is because enchantment bonus does not benefit the sahirs’ magic in any way, and thus they do not realize why magi especially value these stones. (Base 5, +3 Major)''
''Rain of heavenly fire Solomonic Alchemy Level 30 Alteration: Substantial, Ritual The sahir casts the spell while his casting spirit is close enough to see and hear him, and since it is a ritual he can then hold it dormant while the spirit flies into a thunderstorm. Then, through the spirit, he transforms the rain into searing bolts of flame that cause +10 Damage to anyone caught beneath them without Magic Resistance. This rain is hot enough to ignite buildings, trees, and other things made of wood, and these new fires are not extinguished when the effect ends. The storm will continue to rain fire for as long as the spirit concentrates, or until the storm naturally abates. Members of the Suhhar can usually recognize this spell by the way it leaves behind soaking wet rubble when the flames transform back into rain. (Base 5, +2 Substantial, +3 size)''
''The vigilant guardian Solomonic Alchemy Level 30 Alteration: Major, Ritual With this spell, the sahir animates a stone statue of up to 10 cubic feet in size (roughly the size of a very large man), which follows his directions whenever he concentrates, for as long as the spirit maintains the effect. The statue can slowly move and bend its limbs as if they were made of clay, though they remain as hard and impenetrable as stone. It can even change its shape, flowing like mud or sand to spread out across a surface, though it will naturally attempt to return to its original form whenever the sahir releases control of it or when the spell ends. (These changes are Major alterations.) (Base 10, +3 Major, +1 size)''
''The wondrous box of Al-Fazari Solomonic Alchemy Level 35 Alteration: Minor, Ritual The sahir touches an object that is about 50,000 cubic inches in size, such as a large chest or basket, and spends seven pawns of vis. The object and everything it contains grows or shrinks by a factor of ten (the equivalent of three Size categories), and remains that size for as long as the spirit maintains the effect. An animal of Size 0 placed inside the box could grow to Size +3 (the size of a very large horse), or shrink to become Size –3 (the size of a cat). (Base 5, +3 Major, +3 size)''

==Solomonic Astrology==

''Astrological effects impart information directly to the sahir through his recognition of signs and portents, and can thus target any individual the sahir can see or to which he has an Arcane Connection. These effects have a single parameter, Detail, which describes the quality of information gleaned from the spell, though questions about the past or the distant future add an additional magnitude, and those about the near future (within a month) add two magnitudes. Some ritual spell effects give the sahir the ability to sense danger, similar to the Premonitions Supernatural Ability. When this effect is active, the storyguide should apply a Premonition bonus to any roll where the outcome would make the prediction false, and reduce the number of botch dice for these rolls by the same amount. The base value of this bonus is noted next to the corresponding guideline, and increases with the Detail parameter, as indicated later.''
''Binary: A one-word answer between two choices. (+0 magnitudes) Basic: The equivalent of a three-word answer. This adds a +1 bonus to premonition effects. (+1 magnitude) Brief: A single sentence of information. This adds a +2 bonus to premonition effects. (+2 magnitudes) Thorough: All relevant information associated with the target. This adds a +3 bonus to premonition effects. (+3 magnitudes)''
''Answers provided by Solomonic Astrology are not absolute, especially when they involve the future, though they do provide indicators that sahirs can interpret to receive clear answers to specific questions. For more guidance on the sorts of results that astrological calculations tend to provide, see Art & Academe, page 74. When used with Artes Liberales to disguise or augment his casting, the sahir must make up an astrological chart for the target. This requires knowledge of the date and place of its birth, and an Intelligence + Artes Liberales roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Art & Academe has more examples of astrological effects that sahirs can duplicate.''
''Solomonic Astrology Spell Formulas''
''The spells given here are specially designed for Solomonic Astrology.''
''The blessed day, the apt day Solomonic Astrology General Detail: Basic, Ritual''
''The sahir consults the heavens regarding a particular course of action taken by his target, and calculates a date and approximate time during the next month in which the endeavor will be most likely to succeed, and the consequences least disastrous should he fail. At Level 30, this translates to a +1 bonus (and one fewer botch die) on any rolls associated with the activity, so long as that activity is performed at''
''the appointed hour and day. This bonus increases with each additional magnitude, so at Level 35 it is a +2 bonus, +3 at Level 40, and so on. Sahirs do not generally rely on this spell for spellcasting, since it is expensive in terms of vis and it is usually more cost-effective to spend the vis on the spell directly. For many non-magical activities or circumstances expected to be particularly danger''

[|

==Solomonic Astrology Guidelines==

''All Solomonic Astrology ritual spells increase the Penetration of the sahir’s magic by the effect level when casting subsequent spells against that same target, as long as the Solomonic Astrology ritual itself Penetrates. This bonus only lasts while the spirit maintains the effect, and requires the sahir to make a Finesse roll if he is casting the second spell through the same spirit.''
''General: Receive a premonition regarding auspicious influences for a particular action. The bonus the target receives is equal to (the magnitude of this effect – 3), and cannot be negative. (Ritual) Level 2: Perceive one obvious property of a person or object (e.g., hair color, current activity). Level 3: Perceive one property of a person or object that can be determined''
''from close examination (e.g., state of consciousness, age). Level 4: Perceive a specific piece of information about a person or object that cannot normally be determined without an appropriate Ability (e.g., emotional state, maker of an object).  Perceive one obvious property of a person’s or object’s surroundings (e.g., time of day, sounds). (Ritual) Level 5: Sense complex information about a person or object that would normally require extended use of an Ability (e.g., the truth of a statement, all mundane properties of an object).  Perceive one property of a person’s or object’s surroundings that can be determined from close examination (e.g., climate, prosperity level). (Ritual)  Receive a premonition regarding mortal peril to a person or object (+2 bonus). (Ritual)''
''Create a temporary Arcane Connection to the target, with connection strength equal to (the magnitude of the Detail parameter + 1). (Ritual) Level 10: Perceive a specific piece of information about a person’s or object’s surroundings that cannot normally be determined without an appropriate Ability (e.g., a companion’s health, a supernatural aura). (Ritual)  Receive a premonition regarding danger to a person or object (+1 bonus). (Ritual) Level 15: Perceive complex information about a person’s or object’s surroundings that would normally require extended use of an Ability (e.g., all nearby animals, what others think of that person) (Ritual)  Receive a premonition regarding an inconvenience to a person or object (+0 bonus). (Ritual)''

|]
''ous, however, the preparation of this spell is considered to be exceptionally wise, and its judicious application is highly favored by the members of the Ashab al-Najm. (Base effect, +1 Basic, +2 immediate future)''
''The picture of [Target] Solomonic Astrology Level 5 Detail: Binary, Ritual This spell creates a temporary Arcane Connection between an object held by the caster and the target, which costs a single pawn of vis and only lasts as long as the spirit maintains the effect. This Arcane Connection is equivalent in strength to one that lasts hours or days (giving a +1 bonus to the Penetration multiplier), and as a side effect of casting a ritual spell, for the duration this naranj also gives the sahir a +5 bonus to his Penetration Total for subsequent spells cast at that target. When the duration of the effect ends, the Arcane Connection immediately fades. Until then, it is a normal and natural Arcane Connection, and thus it can be made permanent in the laboratory with a season of effort and a pawn of vis. (Base 5)''
''What is the state of [Target]’s health? Solomonic Astrology Level 5 Detail: Brief This spell tells the sahir whether the target inclines more towards life or death, and in what way, through a short sentence. For example, “He is alive, very badly burned, disfigured, unconscious, and incapacitated.” If the target has Magic Resistance, this effect must Penetrate to provide an answer. Many sahirs cast low-level Astrology naranjs like this one as ritual spells for the bonus to their Penetration Total. For this spell, this costs the sahir a pawn of vis and gives him a +5 bonus to subsequent spells cast on that target. (Base 3, +2 Brief)''
''Is [Target] a spirit? Solomonic Astrology Level 10 Detail: Brief This spell tells the sahir if his target is''
''a spirit or not, and if so, what type of spirit and approximately how powerful it is (e.g., “a weak faerie spirit, with less than 10 Faerie Might” or “a powerful spirit with Magic Might 30 or more”). Note that if the spirit is Infernal, this spell typically gives a false reading. Since an object with a spirit bound to it is an Arcane Connection to that spirit, this spell can effectively tell the sahir if a given object is a Solomonic device. (Base 4, +2 Brief)''
''Where is [Target] at this moment? Solomonic Astrology Level 10 Detail: Brief The sahir concentrates upon his question (and perhaps draws a horoscope for the target, adding half an hour to the casting time and his Artes Liberales to the Casting Total), and learns the target’s current location, within a describable region and in relation to a particular feature, such as “south of the city of Baghdad, within an ancient stone structure.” This should be information that a person familiar with the surrounding area could recognize based on landmarks, local legends, and the like. (Base 4, +2 Brief)''
''What are the words that surround [Target]? Solomonic Astrology Level 15 Detail: Thorough, Ritual The sahir concentrates upon his target, and for as long as his spirit keeps the effect active, he can hear all sounds in the target’s presence. The sahir is not actually there, of course, so he is not affected by magic that targets those in the area, which makes this effect ideal for intelligence gathering. (Base 4, +3 Thorough)''
''Hearing the heart’s speech Solomonic Astrology Level 20 Detail: Thorough By reading all of the auspices surrounding his target’s circumstances, the sahir can understand fully what his target is expressing, allowing him to make sense of words that are otherwise unfamiliar for a single exchange. If cast as a ritual spell with four''
''pawns of vis, the duration can be extended indefinitely, allowing the sahir to comprehend his target’s speech for as long as the spirit maintains the effect. If the target has Magic Resistance, the spell fails unless the sahir Penetrates it. There is a fairly common version of this spell invented by a sahir named Dawud al-Malik al-Najm that, as a side effect of experimentation, also includes the target’s understanding of any words spoken by the sahir. This variation can be found throughout the Suhhar but requires at least rudimentary knowledge of Solomonic Storytelling to learn. (Base 5, +3 Thorough)''
''What do [Target]’s enemies intend? Solomonic Astrology Level 25 Detail: Brief, Ritual This ritual spell costs five pawns of vis and gives the sahir a premonition about any sort of social danger to his target, related to an immediate situation such as Majlis or a meeting with an important person. The storyguide decides if and how the target will be inconvenienced at the event, and answers with a short sentence to describe the circumstances. For example, “a rival intends to challenge you to a storytelling duel.” This also gives the player a +2 bonus towards all actions that support the accuracy of the premonition; that is, those rolls to affect whether he is inconvenienced or not. In this example, the sahir would likely gain the bonus to rolls during the duel and actions leading up to the duel, but not to rolls where he attempts to avoid the duel or where he tries to deal with his enemy in other ways. (Base 15, +2 Brief)''
''When and where was [Target] born? Solomonic Astrology Level 25 Detail: Thorough When the sahir does not know the date or location of his target’s birth, he may use this spell to divine it — though not, of course, while using Artes Liberales to boost the casting, since this is precisely the information he needs to draw the target’s horoscope. (Base 5, +3 Thorough, +1 past)''
''Will [Target] survive tomorrow’s battle? Solomonic Astrology Level 30 Detail: Thorough, Ritual This spell gives the sahir a premonition concerning his target’s chances against mortal peril in his near future. The storyguide considers the question, and then outlines the conditions for the sahir’s player in general terms. For example, “He is not a skilled warrior but he wears good armor, so he is likely to prevail,” or “He is too reckless, and if he charges into battle as he is usually wont to do, he will surely be killed.” Mechanically, this translates to a +5 bonus (+3 for Thorough, +2 for “mortal peril”) to all rolls that would gainsay this outcome were they to fail (such as the target’s Defense rolls in the first case, or his enemies’ Attack rolls if he charges into battle in the second case). (Base 5, +3 Thorough, +2 near future)''

==Solomonic Physic==

''To affect a target with Solomonic Physic, the sahir or the spirit must touch it during the round he casts the naranj. He can affect animals as easily as humans, though they do require separate spells, and as long as a naranj targets an individual person or creature, its size does not matter; a giant or dwarf can be affected as easily as a normal man. Physic effects have one parameter, Potency, which determines the strength of the effect. Many of these effects can injure as easily as heal.''
''Weak: Affect pain or other symptoms of injury or disease, minor aging crises, Winded Fatigue levels, or Characteristics or Personality Traits with scores of up to +1 or –1. (+0 magnitudes) Mild: Affect Light Wounds, Minor Diseases, serious aging crises, Weary Fatigue levels, or Characteristics or Personality Traits with scores of up to +2 or –2. (+1 magnitude) Moderate: Affect Medium Wounds, Serious Diseases, major aging crises, Tired Fatigue levels, or Characteristics or Personality Traits with scores of up to +3 or –3. (+2 magnitudes)''

[|

==Solomonic Physic Guidelines==

''All active Solomonic Physic ritual spells also either protect the patient against the penalties for that particular type of wound, disease, or level of fatigue; or they prevent that wound, disease or fatigue from healing, for as long as the spirit maintains the effect. Also, for the duration, ritual spells may be delayed like with Solomonic Alchemy: they can be held dormant until the sahir or the spirit releases them by touching the target.''
''General: Modify the target’s next Wound Recovery roll by (3 x (the effect’s magnitude + 2)). Use this general guideline for effects Base Level 5 or greater.  Modify the target’s next Disease Recovery roll by (3 x (the effect’s magnitude + 2)) against diseases of a certain humor. Use this general guideline for effects Base Level 5 or greater.  Cause a wound if the target fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of (3 x (the effect’s magnitude + 2)). Use this general guideline for effects Base Level 5 or greater.  Increase or decrease a Personality Trait associated with one of the four humors by a number of points equal to (the magnitude of this effect + 1), up to the maximum established by the Potency parameter. (Ritual)  Increase one of a person’s Characteristics for the effect’s duration by a number of points equal to (the magnitude of this effect – 3), up to the maximum established by the Potency parameter. (Ritual)  Decrease one of a person’s Characteristics for the effect’s duration by a number of points equal to (the magnitude of this effect – 3), up to the maximum established by the Potency parameter. (Ritual) Level 2: Modify the target’s next Wound Recovery roll by 1.  Modify the target’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor by 1.''
''Cause a wound if the target fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 0. Level 3: Modify the target’s next Wound Recovery roll by 3.  Modify the target’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor by 3.  Cause a wound if the patient fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 3.  Reduce or increase the potency of poison by one step. Level 4: Modify the target’s next Wound Recovery roll by 6.  Modify the target’s next Disease Recovery roll against diseases of a certain humor by 6.  Cause a wound if the patient fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Level 5: Cure a specific disease in the normal recovery interval.  Restore a fatigue level.  Cause the loss of a fatigue level.  Restore a long-term fatigue level. (Ritual)  Cause the loss of a long-term fatigue level. (Ritual)  Instantly cure a specific disease. (Ritual)  Infect the target with a specific disease. (Ritual)  Transform a Personality Trait into a different Trait for the duration. (Ritual) Level 10: Heal a wound from a specific source (poison, crushing damage, piercing damage) over the course of the wound’s normal recovery interval.  Instantly heal a wound from a specific source (piercing damage, crushing damage, poison). (Ritual)  Cause a wound. (Ritual)  Instantly cure any disease. (Ritual) Level 15: Instantly heal a wound from any source. (Ritual) Level 20: Resolve an aging crisis. (Ritual)  Cause an aging crisis. (Ritual)''

|]
''Strong: Affect Heavy Wounds, Major Diseases, critical aging crises, Dazed Fatigue levels, or Characteristics or Personality Traits with scores of up to +4 or –4. (+3 magnitudes) Mighty: Affect Incapacitating Wounds, Critical Diseases, terminal aging crises, Unconscious Fatigue levels, or Characteristics or Personality Traits with scores of up to +5 or –5. (+4 magnitudes)''
''For effects that grant either a bonus or a penalty, the choice is made during casting; the naranj as designed can do both. Since many of these effects involve a bonus or penalty to the target’s next Recovery roll, it may be possible to recognize how the patient is doing before then. When disguising or supplementing his magic with Medicine, the sahir must administer herbs and other ingredients typically supplied by an apothecary, much like sahirs performing Solomonic Alchemy. With no access to these materials, the sahir must always use arcane gestures and words. Additional examples of medicinal effects that sahirs can duplicate with magic may be found in Art and Academe.''
''Solomonic Physic Spell Formulas''
''The spells given here are specially designed for Solomonic Physic.''
''Balm of the barmakids Solomonic Physic General Potency: Mild The target receives a bonus (or penalty) to his next Recovery roll for a Light Wound, which varies depending on the base level of this effect. At Level 5 this modifies the roll by 6, at Level 10 the modifier is 9, and at Level 15 the bonus or penalty is 12. (Base effect, +1 Mild)''
''Strings of the sanguine heart Solomonic Physic General Potency: Moderate, Ritual This ritual affects the blood of the target, altering the sanguine humors and influencing the target’s behavior. For the''
''duration of the effect, the target has his Sanguine Personality Trait increased or decreased by the magnitude of this spell – 1, to a maximum value of +3 or –3. At Level 20, this is a change of three points. If the target does not have a Sanguine Trait or a similar Trait such as Carefree or Optimistic, he gains one for the duration of the effect. When casting this spell while incorporating principles of Medicine, the sahir typically feeds the target red meat or strong wine fortified with animal blood before performing the ritual. (Base effect, +2 Moderate)''
''Rend his flesh and tear his organs Solomonic Physic General Potency: Moderate The target is poisoned internally and suffers a medium wound unless he makes a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 0 for a Level 4 spell, or three times the magnitude of the spell for Level 5 or more. For example, at Level 20, the Ease Factor is 12. If cast as a ritual spell, the effect can be held dormant by the spirit and released at an ideal time, and unless the target resists it, he cannot heal this wound naturally for as long as the spirit maintains concentration. (Base effect, +2 Moderate)''
''[Spirit] sits on the fever’s edge Solomonic Physic General Potency: Strong This spell helps or hinders the target’s recovery from a major disease or lesser severity that affects the blood. It modifies his Recovery roll by 1 for a Level 5 spell, 3 for a Level 10 spell, or (3 x (the magnitude of the spell – 1)) for a spell Level 15 or more. For example, a Level 15 spell would add or subtract 6. Magos al-Laqis al-Abyad al-Sakhr causes his patient to briefly feel completely at peace whenever he casts this spell through his guardian angel. (Base effect, +3 Strong)''
''Insight of the ancient jinn Solomonic Physic, General Potency: Weak, Ritual The target’s Perception temporar''
''ily increases by a number of points equal to (the magnitude of this effect – 3), up to a maximum score of +1, and he cannot have his Perception reduced by other spells. This effect only lasts as long as the spirit maintains it. At Level 20, this increases Perception 0 to Perception +1, and at Level 35 this increases Perception –3 to +1. (Base effect)''
''The hollowing curse Solomonic Physic, General Potency: Mighty, Ritual The target of this devastating spell has his Stamina reduced by (its magnitude – 7), to a minimum of –5, for the duration of the effect. For example, at Level 60, a target with Stamina +1 will be temporarily reduced five points to Stamina –4. Furthermore, the target cannot increase his Stamina through any means during this time, even through Al-Iksir potions or other Solomonic Physic rituals, and gains a Warping Point every season it is active plus an additional Warping Point when it is cast. It is said that the Ashab al-Yad prefer not to murder their enemies (all sahirs are still answerable to their earthly authorities, after all), but instead punish them in other ways, such as with this spell, which makes the target especially vulnerable to accidents and illnesses. Also, unlike death, this effect can be undone, if necessary. (Base effect, +4 Mighty)''
''Siphoning the warrior’s bile Solomonic Physic Level 15 Potency: Moderate, Ritual By touching his target and spending three pawns of vis, the sahir casts a spell that transforms the target’s Brave Trait into a different Trait for the spell’s duration, chosen when this spell is cast. The spell can affect similar Traits like Courageous, or opposing Traits like Cowardly, but only Traits with scores of up to +3 or –3 may be affected. The new Trait should be similarly positive or negative, e.g., Brave to Loyal or Kind, Cowardly to Prideful or Envious. (Base 5, +2 Moderate)''
''[Spirit], let me lean upon you Solomonic Physic Level 25 Potency: Mighty The sahir restores a Fatigue Level to his target, even when unconscious. If cast as a ritual spell, the target suffers no penalty for lost fatigue for as long as the spirit maintains the effect, though the target can still fall unconscious from exhaustion. Many sahirs cast this on themselves as a ritual spell, instructing the spirit to hold the effect dormant until they pass out, to revive themselves as quickly as possible. (Base 5, +4 Mighty)''
''Close the red wounds of war Solomonic Physic Level 30 Potency: Mighty, Ritual This spell immediately heals any one Incapacitating, Heavy, Medium, or Light Wound caused by damage that cuts or pierces the body. The spell takes about an hour and a half to cast, and requires six pawns of vis. It also gives the target a Warping Point for a powerful mystical effect unless it has been specifically designed for him. Because it is a ritual spell, for as long as the spirit maintains the effect, the penalty from all other wounds the patient sustains is reduced by 7. (Base 10, +4 Mighty)''
''Jabril’s blessing Solomonic Physic Level 40 Potency: Mighty, Ritual This spell immediately resolves any illness caused by an aging crisis. The patient will fully recover after about a season, though for as long as the spirit maintains the effect, the patient suffers no ill effects from the crisis and may continue as normal. (Base 20, +4 Mighty)''

==Solomonic Storytelling==

''Solomonic Storytelling spells affect “an audience,” which is essentially any and all targets within range of the sahir’s voice. As with Hermetic magic, the sahir must be able to perceive everyone targeted by the naranj at the time of casting in order to affect them, though some''
''ritual spells create illusions that can affect anyone who comes upon them after they have been cast. Those who are targeted by Storytelling effects have a chance to see through them, and so they have an Allure parameter that determines how difficult they are to resist. Also, Solomonic Storytelling does not circumvent Magic Resistance, so when characters with Magic Resistance are targeted, the storyguide should check for Penetration first.''
''Simple: The target sees through the effect with a Perception + Awareness against an Ease Factor of 6, made when the subject first encounters the effect. (+0 magnitudes) Emotional: The target resists the effect with a Perception die roll plus or minus a Personality Trait that suggests whether or not he would question the effect, against an Ease Factor of 6. For example, Brave and Loyal would probably subtract from the die roll. (+1 magnitudes) Unsuspecting: An intelligent target may see through the effect if his suspicions are raised. Once the target is skeptical, this is a Perception + Guile roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to resist. (+2 magnitudes)''
''Supernatural: Only targets with supernatural perception, such as Second Sight or Solomonic Travel ritual spells, may see through the effect. The Perception + (Ability) roll has an Ease Factor of 6. (+3 magnitudes)''
''Storytelling effects are always susceptible to the parameters with higher magnitude as well as the value they are designed to use, so that a suspicious person with Second Sight would have three chances to see through an effect with Emotional Allure. While designing the spell, the sahir may also add a magnitude to the spell level to increase the Ease Factor for any of these Perception checks by 3. For example, three additional magnitudes would increase all four Ease Factors from 6 to 15. When disguising or augmenting a Storytelling spell using (Area) Lore, the sahir must have an audience, and must hold this audience’s attention, making a Communication + (Area) Lore roll. Here, (Area) Lore represents the sahir’s ability to recall and relate an appropriate story. It also represents his ability to conjure images and emotions that match the local culture and his surroundings. The difficulty of this roll varies depending upon the audience and''
''the circumstances; Ease Factor 3 might be appropriate for a group relaxing around a fire, 15 for a hostile group blocking his way. At the players’ discretion, Free Expression or similar Virtues give the character a +3 bonus on this roll. Some Storytelling ritual spells produce what might be called “mental species.” These affect the mind directly, creating illusions of perception that are solid and in all senses real for anyone who does not resist them. An illusion of flames is not actually hot, and an illusory ceiling does not actually keep out the weather, but the illusion masks outward signs so that those affected simply do not perceive them. A guest in an illusory house might become suspicious when he still has a chill after sitting by the fire, or when he feels rain falling despite the thick roof above him.''

==Solomonic Storytelling Spell Formulas==

''The spells given here are specially designed for Solomonic Storytelling.''
''The tongue has no bone, yet it crushes Solomonic Storytelling Level 5 Allure: Emotional The sahir casts this naranj at his audience, causing those affected to feel profound embarrassment, as if they had just done something terribly improper. A humble person has a greater chance of seeing through this illusion, adding his Personality Trait score to the roll. (Base 4, +1 Emotional)''
''Wrathful breath of the desert wind Solomonic Storytelling Level 5 Allure: Simple, Ritual The target’s image is changed to appear as a skeleton, with all of his flesh removed, for as long as the spirit maintains the effect. This illusion may be pierced with a Perception roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Some members of the Suhhar this spell to punish sahirs who offend them in some way, making it even more difficult for their victims to interact with mundane society. It is common for the effect to manifest as a''
''fierce wind blowing from the mouth of the sahir pronouncing the curse, stripping the meat from the target’s frame. (Base 5)''
''Move along, move along Solomonic Storytelling Level 10 Allure: Simple With this naranj, the sahir convinces a weak-minded audience to obey an innocuous suggestion, such as to allow him to pass by unmolested or to accept an unusual form of coin. The Perception + Awareness roll to see through the command is Ease Factor 15. (Base 3, +3 Ease Factor)''
''[Spirit], his arms wide Solomonic Storytelling Level 10 Allure: Simple The sahir speaks, and those who listen understand a short message woven into his voice, even if they do not speak the same language. This message should be conveyed in a few words that describe a general concept, such as “a dragon''

[|

==Solomonic Storytelling Guidelines==

''All active Solomonic Storytelling ritual spells allow the sahir to provide additional direction by concentrating on the target, and selectively suppress or restore the effects on anyone affected by them, for as long as the spirit maintains the spell.''
''Level 3: Change an audience’s dominant emotion into a similar emotion.  Convince an audience to follow an innocuous course of action (“drink and carouse”). Level 4: Inspire a specific emotion in an audience.  Convey a short message to an audience, no matter what language they speak.  Change an audience’s current mental state (sleepy, confused, or awake).  Convince an audience to follow a questionable course of action (“give me your money”).''
''Level 5: Alter an audience’s memories of an event.  Convince an audience to follow a dangerous course of action (“wander into the desert”).  Conjure an illusion of an individual (with additional size magnitudes for very large individuals). (Ritual)  Change an individual’s image (with additional magnitudes added for very large individuals, or for increasing the target’s size). (Ritual) Level 10: Place false memories of an event in an audience’s minds.  Convince an audience to follow a heinous course of action (“attack each other”).  Conjure an illusion of a group of individuals (with additional magnitudes added for larger groups). (Ritual)  Change the images of a group of individuals (with additional magnitudes added for larger groups). (Ritual)''
''Level 15: Convince an audience to follow a suicidal course of action (“fall upon your swords”).  Conjure an illusion of a room and its contents, or another image up to about ten paces across. (Ritual)  Change the images in a room, or another location up to about ten paces across. (Ritual) Level 20: Conjure an illusion of a structure and its contents, or another image up to about a hundred paces across. (Ritual)  Change the images in a structure, or another location up to about a hundred paces across. (Ritual) Level 25: Conjure an illusion of a boundary and its contents, or another image up to about a thousand paces across. (Ritual)  Change the images in a boundary, or another location up to about a thousand paces across. (Ritual)''

|]
''is coming from the north” or “help, my daughter is lost” or “that man is an imposter.” Anyone affected may make a Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 12 to resist the effect, but success means they do not understand the underlying message. If cast as a ritual spell, the sahir may continue to communicate short phrases in this way each subsequent round, for as long as the spirit maintains the spell, and may include newcomers into the effect by concentrating upon them for a round. Some of the Nizari Isma’ili are rumored to plot assassinations using this spell, discussing their intended crimes in this way so that they cannot possibly be overheard by others. (Base 4, +2 Ease Factor)''
''Make their eyelids heavy and their heads to fall Solomonic Storytelling Level 15 Allure: Supernatural All those within range of the sahir’s voice are lulled to sleep unless they have supernatural perception, in which case they may shake off the effect with a Perception + (Ability) roll against an Ease Factor of 6. They may easily wake again if they are disturbed; they will sleep as long as they would if they had fallen asleep naturally. To add his Area Lore to his total, the sahir usually tells a familiar story in a soothing voice. It takes 45 minutes to cast in this way, but does not seem like magic to his audience. (Base 4, +3 Supernatural)''
''Peal of familiar voices Solomonic Storytelling Level 15 Allure: Emotional The sahir’s audience is inspired with a feeling of loyalty and cooperative enthusiasm, a strong desire to work together with others in their community. In effect, everyone who listens to the performance receives a +3 bonus to Personality rolls associated with working together, as if the caster had the Inspirational Virtue. The Ease Factor to see through this illusion is 12. (Base 4, +1 Emotional, +2 Ease Factor)''
''A light distraction Solomonic Storytelling Level 20 Allure: Supernatural, Ritual This spell causes the sahir’s image to explode in a blinding flash of flame and then cease to be visible for the duration of the effect. Only those with some form of supernatural perception can see through this illusion at Ease Factor 6, though anyone in the sahir’s audience with Magic Resistance is unaffected unless the spell penetrates. (Base 5, +3 Supernatural)''
''You will not remember me when I am gone Solomonic Storytelling Level 20 Allure: Unsuspecting Through his performance, the sahir causes his audience to remember a completely different event happening instead, the details of which are woven into the naranj. For example, he might have them recall that they watched the sun set, or listened to an imam give a moving speech about the merits of children obeying their parents. Once the spell is cast, the sahir’s audience might be briefly disoriented, as they try to remember what it is that they are doing. If the facts of this story are called into question, a successful Perception + Guile roll against an Ease Factor of 6 allows them to remember the truth. (Base 10, +2 Unsuspecting)''
''Sow the seeds for a crop of betrayers Solomonic Storytelling Level 25 Allure: Unsuspecting The sahir convinces his audience to perform a heinous act, specified at the time of casting, such as attacking each other, assaulting their leader, or burning down a mosque. Those who suspect they have been enchanted may make a Perception + Guile roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to resist, otherwise they act as if they had decided on the action themselves, and proceed to carry out the command to the best of their abilities. If they are prevented from fulfilling their orders, the desire to comply will fade over time, more or less quickly depending''
''upon the mental state of the targets. Generally, the targets recover from the effect at about the same time they would wake if they fell asleep. If cast as a Ritual spell and maintained by a spirit, however, the effects endure and the sahir can suppress, restore, or even change the command by concentrating on the target. (Base 10, +2 Unsuspecting, +1 Ease Factor)''
''[Spirit]’s cave Solomonic Storytelling Level 30 Allure: Unsuspecting, Ritual This ritual spell creates the illusion of a tall, hollow hill or dune, large enough to contain about a hundred people, their animals, and tents. This takes approximately an hour and a half, and costs the sahir six pawns of vis. Once the naranj is cast, the sahir and the people inside can see through the image if they make a Perception + Guile roll against an Ease Factor of 6, or the sahir can selectively drop the illusion for any of them by concentrating on the effect. This allows the people inside to watch others who approach with ease, most of whom will have no reason to doubt the image and almost certainly will travel around it, creating a perfect ambush site or hiding place. The illusion lasts for as long as the spirit maintains the effect, or until the sahir cancels it. (Base 20, +2 Unsuspecting)''

==Solomonic Travel==

''Solomonic Travel involves manipulating the power of the four supernatural realms. These spells open a passage through an individual target, which the sahir must draw upon or mark in some way; or else through a circle that he draws upon the ground or on a solid surface such as a wall or floor. To allow others to travel through this passage, the marked target or circle must be large enough for each individual to pass through it. These effects have one parameter, Delay, which determines how long the sahir must wait for the effect to manifest. The markings or circle that he draws on the target must remain undisturbed until this time.''
''Season: The effect manifests at the next solstice or equinox. (+0 magnitudes) Moon: The effect manifests during the next full or new moon. (+1 magnitude) Sun: The effect manifests at the next dawn or dusk. (+2 magnitudes) Immediate: The effect manifests immediately. (+3 magnitudes)''
''The sahir can perform a mystic ceremony to augment his Casting Total, or to disguise his casting. This requires him to have a (Realm) Lore score of at least 3 (of the realm appropriate to the effect), consume special materials appropriate to the realm (e.g., candles, incense, offerings, sacrifices, etc.), and he must describe the effect upon the target with pictures or words. For example, a divine ceremony''
''might require the burning of white candles and sweet incense while chanting appropriate passages of the Qur’an and inscribing them on the target.''
''Solomonic Travel Spell Formulas''
''The spells given here are specially designed for Solomonic Travel.''
''[Spirit] brings the curse of Bayna Solomonic Travel General Delay: Immediate This effect causes an individual target that the sahir touches to immediately gain two Warping Points, unless the target''
''makes a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor equal to three times (the magnitude of the spell – 3). For example, a Level 25 version has an Ease Factor of 6. (Base effect, +3 Immediate, +1 additional Warping Point)''
''The hush of solitude Solomonic Travel General Delay: Immediate This effect closes a passage that has been opened with Solomonic Travel or a similar power, even one that is being maintained by a spirit or which has been created but has not yet manifested. At Level 20, it can cancel another effect of up to Level 20. At Level 35, it can cancel another effect of up to Level 50. At''

[|

==Solomonic Travel Guidelines==

''Active Solomonic Travel ritual spells grant the sahir supernatural senses, allowing him to see through illusions and perceive things that are imbued with supernatural power. Treat this as scores in both Magic Sensitivity and Second Sight equal to the magnitude of the spell for as long as the spirit maintains it. This supernatural sense is also affected by the Delay parameter, however, and does not actually manifest until the spell comes into effect, though the spirit must still maintain it until then. A window or passage allows the sahir and anyone nearby to perceive species through it from another location, and allows those on the other side to perceive the sahir’s location as well. These portals remain open as long as the spirit maintains the effect, and travel through a passage can be selectively granted or revoked to others by the spirit or as the sahir directs.''
''General: Give the target a Warping Point if it fails a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of (3 x (the spell’s base magnitude + 1)). Additional magnitudes can also increase the number of Warping Points gained.  Restore a number of Might Points to a target equal to (the base level of the effect – 5).''
''Open a passage through a supernatural regio boundary of level no greater than (the base magnitude of this effect + 5).  Open a passage through the Twilight Void to a vestige or boundary in the Magic Realm of level no greater than the base magnitude of this effect (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 21–26).  Open a passage into the Faerie Realm through a supernatural aura of level no less than (10 – (the base magnitude of this effect + 1)) (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 20–23).  Close a window or passage opened with Solomonic Travel or a similar power if the magnitude of the canceled effect is less than ((this spell’s base magnitude + 1) x 2).  Open a passage from the Faerie Realm to a supernatural aura with an aura bonus or penalty no less than (10 – (the base magnitude of this spell + 5)) (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 29-30). (Ritual)  Open a passage through a supernatural aura to another aura of the same realm, both auras of level no less than (10 – the base magnitude of this spell). (Ritual) Level 10: Force the target to make an Aging roll.''
''Level 15: Open a passage into the Twilight Void (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 23–26). (Ritual)  Open a window through an Arcane Connection. (Ritual)  Open a window through which ghosts and other insubstantial beings can be seen. (Ritual)  Open a window into a sleeping person’s dreams (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 102–111). (Ritual) Level 20: Open a window to or from the physical world through a Magic Realm vestige or boundary (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 21-23). (Ritual) Level 25: Open a passage that transforms the sahir and his companions into spirits for the duration. (Ritual)  Open a passage into a sleeping person’s dreams (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 102–111). (Ritual)  Open a passage through an Arcane Connection. (Ritual) Level 30: Open a direct passage to or from the Magic Realm through a vestige or boundary, bypassing the Twilight Void (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 21–23). (Ritual)  Open a direct passage to or from the Faerie Realm (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 29–30). (Ritual)''

|]
''Level 50, it can cancel another effect of up to Level 80. The sahir must mark the passageway he is closing in some way, usually by drawing the sign of the Ashab al-Nahr upon it with a piece of charred wood or ash. (Base effect, +3 Immediate)''
''Through the gray haze Solomonic Travel General Delay: Sun At sunset or sunrise, the sahir opens passage through a regio boundary of level no greater than (the magnitude of this effect + 3). For example, a Level 10 spell would open passage through a boundary of 5 or less. While this naranj works on boundaries aligned with any realm, the sahir may only incorporate his (Realm) Lore score if he correctly identifies the type of aura for the regio. If he guesses wrong, he receives no bonus. (Base effect, +2 Sun)''
''To the highest mountains of Qaf Solomonic Travel General Delay: Season When cast from within a supernatural aura, this spell opens a passage into the Faerie Realm (See Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 20–23). As a Level 5 spell, the origin aura strength must be 10, with each additional magnitude lowering the minimum aura strength by 1. (Base effect)''
''Warm as the life of day Solomonic Travel General Delay: Immediate The sahir marks and concentrates upon a spirit or other supernatural being and restores a number of lost Might Points to its Might Pool. The number of Might Points it regains is equal to (the spell level – 20), so at Level 25 the target would recover 5 Might Points. Note that the naranj must also penetrate the being’s Magic Resistance to have its effect. This naranj may be used to restore Might Points to the spirit through which it is cast. This is because the sahir is actually drawing upon the concentrated power of one of the four realms to replenish his''
''target’s Might, not the spirit’s own power. (Base effect, +3 Immediate)''
''We will meet again as the seasons turn Solomonic Travel General Delay: Season, Ritual From within a supernatural aura, the sahir draws the outline of a portal that will lead to a different aura of the same realm that he has visited before. The levels of both auras can be no less than (10 – the magnitude of this spell), which means that a Level 45 spell is needed to enable travel to or from a Level 1 aura. If both auras are at least Level 5, a Level 25 spell is sufficient. Most commonly, sahirs use this naranj to enable travel to the yearly Majlis, and cast it at the very end of spring so that they can use it during summer. (Base effect)''
''Sight of many lifetimes Solomonic Travel Level 25 Delay: Immediate''
''The target touched by the sahir is briefly exposed to the harsh, timeless powers of one of the four supernatural realms, and must make an immediate Aging roll, even if the target is too young to require such rolls naturally. If the target is not living or is immortal, this naranj has no effect. (Base 10, +3 Immediate)''
''The magical minaret Solomonic Travel Level 30 Delay: Immediate, Ritual The sahir draws upon the surface of a pool, the face of a rock, or a circle of sand, and once the ritual spell is complete he and any others he designates can perceive what is happening in a place to which he has an Arcane Connection. This supernatural perception goes both ways, so that others near the target can also see and hear the sahir and his companions, though it is clear who is actually there and who is on the other side. Those on either side of the magical window can even cast spells and use their powers through it. The window only remains open as long as the sahir’s''
''spirit maintains the effect, however. As this is a ritual spell, the sahir can open and close the window by concentrating, even selectively allowing or denying access to several at once. In addition, after the window opens the sahir gains supernatural senses equivalent to scores of 6 in Second Sight and Magic Sensitivity for as long as the effect lasts. (Base 15, +3 Immediate)''
''By the light of the ominous moon Solomonic Travel Level 30 Delay: Moon, Ritual Like other Solomonic Travel spells, the sahir draws the doorway through which he will gain passage, and once the moon changes he and his companions step''
''through this doorway into what sahirs call “the spirit realm.” They pass through the doorway, yet once they reach the other side they are now insubstantial and invisible to other mortals, like a spirit, and mostly unable to affect them, physically or with their magic. They are also tangible to other spirits: they are able to see and interact with each other as if they were corporeal. Spirits who travel through the doorway experience just the opposite; they become physical and unable to interact with the spirit world without appropriate powers. (See Realms of Power: Magic, page 100, for more on how spirits interact with the physical world.) Sahirs generally circumvent the delay by casting the spell during a full moon. (Base 25, +1 Moon)''
''The oubliette al-wazir Solomonic Travel Level 45 Delay: Immediate, Ritual This ritual spell opens passage to a particular location in the Magic Realm, without requiring travel through the Twilight Void (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 21–23). It is said that the current grand vizier possesses an Arcane Connection to a pit in the middle of a great stone fortress located in that realm, built on an island in the middle of a cold and lonely sea. Traitors to the Suhhar can be quietly exiled to this prison through the use this spell. (Base 30, +3 Immediate)''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
