''Persia stretches from the Tigris River in the west to the Oxus River in the north and east. It is ethnically and culturally diverse; a consequence of both its vast size and its central position. However, over seven-tenths of its land area is desert and waste. Much of the country is high plateau, four to five thousand feet above sea level. Exceptions include the lands around the Persian Gulf south of the Zagros mountains, which are just above sea level, and the narrow coastal strip to the south of the Caspian Sea, which is just below sea level. The plateau is bounded by the Alborz mountains to the north and the''
''Zagros mountains to the south and west. The plateau lacks major rivers since they find no outlet; many rivers on the plateau are simply lost in sands and swamps, rather than reaching the sea. Persians are linguistically and ethnically different from the Arabs to the west. The majority of the population is found outside the great cities. Most are tenants, sharing their crops with their landlords, who tend to live in the towns. The low rainfall for most of the region results in a reliance on irrigation, through the use of underground water channels called qanats, which require constant and skilled mainte''
''nance. A significant minority of the population is nomadic or semi-nomadic; principally the Lurs of the Zagros mountains and the Ghuzz of Khurasan. Most of the provinces are ruled by a dynasty of Seljuk Turks who have sworn loyalty to the current shah; these rulers are either atabegs or mamluks. The atabegs were originally provincial governors who were tutors of Seljuk princes, but by the 13th century are semi-autonomous princes in their own right. The mamluks are raised as slave-soldiers to be utterly loyal to their masters, and placed in territories as direct subordinates of the sultan.''
''The language of Persia is Parsi, or Persian, a tongue unrelated to other Middle Eastern languages. Arabic is the language of Islam, and retains its pre-eminence when discussing religion; it used also to be the language of all scholarship, but in the 13th century most Persian secular books are written in Parsi. Turkish became well-established during the period of Seljuk dominance, and various dialects are found among the Ghuzz and the Lurs.''

==Recent History==

''The Seljuk Turks ruled Persia for nearly two centuries. It was always an empire made of two halves, with a sultan appointed in Khurasan to rule the east, while the Seljuk overlord ruled from the west. The sultanate of Khurasan came to an abrupt end in 1149 when the Shansabani family destroyed Seljuk rule there using infernal powers. To add to the troubles in Persia, the Ghuzz — who had been invited to settle in Persia and join the armies — rebelled in Khurasan in 1151, and invaded the neighboring provinces. Despite holding Sultan Ahmed Sanjar captive for over three years, the Ghuzz rebellion was short-lived, but the Seljuks never reclaimed Khurasan from the Shansabanis. Ala ad-Din Tekish, the Mamluk ruler of Khwarazm, expanded his territory fol''
''lowing the gradual collapse of the Seljuk empire after the death of Sultan Ahmed Sanjar, and eventually defeated his successor Togril III in 1194. Tekish’s son Ala ad-Din Mohammed continued his father’s work to conquer the remaining parts of the Seljuk empire, and proclaimed himself its shah in 1205, although the Caliph has yet to recognize this title. Since then he has crushed the Shansabanis in Khurasan, and extended his reign to Transoxiana, and is now the ruler of a vast empire that stretches from the River Jaxartes to the Persian Gulf. Two years ago the shah met with emissaries from Genghis Khan in Samarkand. The shah''
''had them killed and shaved — a grave insult — and sent back to the Khan. It remains to be seen what the Great Khan’s response will be.''

==Persian Supernatural Factions==

''In addition to the Suhhar Sulayman — who are ubiquitous in Persia’s cities — there are five key supernatural factions who are active throughout Mythic Persia.''

==The Yatus==

''In ancient times, the kings of Persia received assistance from sorcerers who went by the name of yatus. Unlike the mobeds who served Persia in a sacred fashion, the yatus were wholly secular, and had practices that were deplored by the Mazdean priests. Several of the ancient Persian kings used cadres of these sorcerers attached to their armies; the initial successes of Darius and Xerxes against''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Shahnameh==

''The “Epic of Kings” is the national saga of the Persian people, composed by Ferdowsi in the tenth century. It is a record of the pre-Muslim history and legends of Persia. It begins with the creation of the world and of man, and then the introduction of fire, metal-working, agriculture, and other technologies. The early kings and their accomplishments are followed by the deeds of the great heroes: Saum, his son Zal, and grandson Rostam. The age of heroes ends with the conquest of Alexander''
''the Great; Ferdowsi then gives the history of the Sasanids, and ends with the conquest by the Arabs (whom he calls “the Army of Darkness”). The Shahnameh is written in Parsi, and copies are often beautifully illustrated and decorated with gold leaf, and run to seven volumes in length. A good quality copy such as this is a summa on Persian Lore, Level 4, Quality 12. It can also be studied as a series of tractatus on Magic Lore, Faerie Lore, Divine Lore, and Infernal Lore, each Quality 10.''

==Peri Faeries==

''The peris are the courtly faeries of Persia. Peris are almost exclusively female, and are extraordinarily beautiful — a pretty maiden in Persia is occasionally referred to as “peri-faced.” Their game statistics are the same as for lesser nymphs (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 73), and they fulfill the same''
''role as entrapping lovers. However, peris rarely have powers over plant life. Peris are occasionally accompanied by diminutive male assistants who cater to their every whim; these are effectively sprites (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 85) except that they have brightly-colored birds’ wings.''

==Pairika Demons==

''A pairika is the Persian term for the Aerial Powers (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 42). These demons are treated as corrupt jinn by sahirs (see Chapter 4: The''
''Jinn). They are cncountered throughout Persia and most commonly embody the crushing heat of the desert or the dreadful power of the earthquake.''

|}
''the Greek city states can be attributed to the lack of preparedness among the Greeks for such magical assaults. In the main, yatus of old were faerie wizards; legends hold them as the inventors of the Ars Fabulosa (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 131), which encompasses Faerie Summoning and related practices. Oral history recounts that these Arts were adapted directly from Canaanite Necromancy, which is held to be the origin of all summoning powers. Some yatus followed darker Arts and it was these Goetic yatus who prompted the persecutions by the mobeds that eventually lead to the decline of Persian magical warfare. When the Suhhar Sulayman was formed, Persia contributed several lineages of yatus who had survived the''
''Mazdean purges and the Muslim invasions, and they brought with them the knowledge of True Names and the Invocation of Names of Power Virtue (see Chapter 3: Order of Suleiman). The yatus today can be found in western Persia, Iraq, and the Northwest provinces. Most are members of the Suhhar Sulayman, combining Faerie Summoning with the Solomonic Arts, principally Solomonic Storytelling. Non-Solomonic yatus are faerie wizards specializing in the Ars Fabulosa. Faerie blood is quite common among the yatus. They are often pagan, which causes them to clash with many sahirs, so they tend to found closed communities of solely yatu buyut al-hikma.''

==The Mobeds==

''The glory days of Zoroastrianism are long gone, but the faith is by no means extinct. Enclaves of mobeds can be found in Yazd, Daylam, and Kirman. For more information on the mobeds, see Chapter 5: Mythic Zoroastrianism.''

==The Nizari Isma’ilis==

''The original assassins, Nizari Isma’ilis are a fanatical sect who use murder to further their religious and political agenda. They are a renegade faction of sahirs, and are detailed in Nizari Isma’ili State, later.''

==Nasu Spirit==

''Magic Might: 5 (Animal) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str –20, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +10 Size: –12 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Magic Sensitivity; Gluttonous Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Donning the Corporeal Veil), Greater Power (Swarm Form), Ritual Power (Corpse-Feeding); Improved Damage x10, Improved Powers; Miniature x5 Personality Traits: Hungry +6* * Essential Trait Combat: Swarm bite: Init +10, Attack +7*, Defense n/a, Damage +10 * A nasu swarm cannot be parried, only dodged. Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 3 (corpses), Brawl 3 (biting), Magic Sensitivity 3 (wizards) Powers: Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init +9, Animal: Allows the nasu to take material form, which it can dismiss at any time. Nasu usually only leave''
''the material world when there are no more corpses on which to feed. Cr(Re)An 25 (base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite) Greater Power (25 levels, –3 Might cost, +2 Init) Corpse-Feeding, 3 points, Init +8, Animal: When a nasu enters an orifice on a corpse, it can emerge three rounds later as ten individuals. Each of these individuals is identical in every way to the original nasu, including having this power, except that each swarm, no matter how large, has a single pawn of vis. Every three rounds, a nasu swarm can gain three points of size, and its ability to grow is limited only by the number of corpses it has available; of course, as it grows, it attacks living things and creates more bodies. CrAn(Vi) 25 (base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 requisite) Ritual Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost, +3 Init, including Improved Powers) Swarm Form 0 points, Init 0, Animal: A nasu does not attack as an individual, but rather as a swarm. The combat statistics are for an entire swarm, which must be the same Size or larger than its opponent. Thus a swarm of 100,000 nasus (Size +3) can attack a standard group of humans. A nasu swarm cannot be killed by normal''
''weapons, only by area effects such as fire or smoke. The storyguide should consider how much of the swarm is affected by the area effect and assign damage in terms of Might points: if one-fifth of the swarm is affected then it loses one Might point; if twofifths is affected it loses two Might points, and so forth. Greater Power — no Hermetic equivalent. Vis: 1 pawn of Animal, in body. Appearance: A three-inch-long fly, with a red and yellow striped abdomen. They make a fearful buzzing sound when they fly.''
''The nasu is a Persian magical nonjinni spirit which is attracted to the bodies of the recently dead, especially the corpses of magical creatures or sorcerers. They rarely take material form unless summoned; they are minor spirits, and any apprentice summoner can call one, which is why many masters are very careful to indicate why they should never be summoned — one nasu can become millions in a matter of minutes if sufficient fresh meat is around. Although a magical spirit, nasu are not jinn and cannot be called by sahirs using Solomonic Sihr, although they can be summoned by wizards using (Spirit) Summoning.''

==The Cradle & The Crescent Zahhak==

''Zahhak was a demonic ruler of Persia in its heroic age, holding the nation in his evil thrall. He ruled from Ctesiphon in the days of Jamshid (see Istakhr, later), and conquered Persia after sawing Jamshid in two. Under his reign, virtue was despised and wickedness lauded. His thousand-year reign was eventually ended by the hero Feridun. Since that time, a Zahhak has periodically appeared and been battled by Persian sahirs, but he has never achieved the same level of power that he did in Jamshid’s day. Zahhak is not a demon in the tradi''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Zahhak==

''The last Zahhak was the Shansabani Sultan Mohammed al-Ghuri, defeated 14 years ago (see Ghur, later). It would be unusual for another to be formed so quickly, but some Persian sahirs believe that Genghis Khan is, or is advised by, a Zahhak. The predatory way in which he is turned towards Persia is typical behavior of possession by Azi Dahak. If, in your saga, Zahhak is behind the Mongol invasion, then a whole campaign could revolve around ridding the Horde of the''
''demonic influence. The first Zahhak was not killed by Feridun; rather, he was chained and buried under Mount Damavand (see Mazandaran, later) with the assistance of an angel. He is no longer possessed by the demon, but dwells there still, protected from death by the divine bindings about him. This ancient individual from Persia’s heroic age might be able to give an insight to characters facing a reborn Zahhak.''

|}

==The Demon Azi Dahak==

''Order: Duke of the Spirits of Deceit Infernal Might: 40 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str +12, Sta +4, Dex +5, Qik –1 Size: +4 Confidence Score: 3 (9) Virtues and Flaws: Ablating, Binding, Commanding, Summoning; Inspirational Personality Traits: Deceitful +6, Hatred of Persia +5, Trustworthy –5 Reputations: Legendary Tyrant King 7 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 7 Combat: Bite*: Init +1, Attack +15, Defense +10, Damage +20 * Azi Dahak can bite three targets in each round; he acts like a Trained Group with three members. Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (flying), Brawl 8 (bite), Guile 8 (promises of power), Intrigue 5 (nobles), Leadership 4 (own heads), Organization Lore: Suhhar Sulayman 4 (viziers), Penetration 4 (Possession), Teaching 5 (Goetic Arts) Arts: Ablating 12, Binding 8, Command''
''ing 8, Summoning 10 Powers: Coagulation, 4 points, Init –1, Animal: Azi Dahak can form a physical body, and dismiss it at will. Obsession, 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim: Azi Dahak can invoke the Personality Trait of Power Hungry. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31, for more details. Envisioning, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: The demon can appear in the dreams of a person. Possession, variable points, Init +2, Mentem: Azi Dahak usually places all of his Might Pool into possession and can control the actions of his victim. He cannot regenerate Might points until the possession ends, so he has to leave periodically. During this time, his victim suffers terrible dreams of his death and torment in hell, and may act to prevent the demon returning. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 32, for more details. Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init –1, Mentem: The target of this effect loses all judgment and believes a specific lie (as long as it is passable) until presented with evidence to the contrary. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is allowed to resist the effect. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem: The target believes any lie, no matter how preposterous, un''
''til he relates that lie to someone else. At this point he realizes how ridiculous the falsehood sounds, and the demonic power is broken. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 also reveals the lie to be false, with the first roll allowed an hour after the effect was used, and further rolls permitted once every subsequent hour. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim: The demon can duplicate the effects of any Intellego spell for the cost of 2 Might points. It may also gain a morsel of future knowledge, understanding the most immediate consequences of any one specific action. Empower the Possessed, 0 points, Init 0, Vim: Whenever a possessed victim is willfully using the Goetic Arts, Azi Dahak grants a bonus equal to his own score in that Art. Furthermore, the demon’s Hierarchy score can be used in place of the possessed character’s score. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (flame from a Mazdean temple) Vis: 8 pawns of Mentem vis prava, in eyes. Appearance: On the rare occasions it takes material form, Azi Dahak is an immense winged serpent with three heads, bearing six eyes and three pairs of fangs on each head. When wounded, snakes and scorpions spew from its wounds.''
''tional sense. Rather, when Azi Dahak the demon possesses an individual, that person becomes Zahhak. Possession is indicated by the growth of a black snake from each of the victim’s shoulders. When cut off they simply regrow; only removal of''
''the possession can cure them. The snakes crave human brains, and the victim is driven to satisfy this need by the demon inside him. In the first instance, the possessing demon forces the new Zahhak to do evil''
''deeds, but over time the victim is corrupted by the whispers and promises of power of the demon, and so far none have resisted his lure. Once the victim embraces evil, he is taught the Goetic Arts (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 114), and can use Ablating to extend his life, gain magic resistance, and call upon all manner of evil powers by stealing them from other demons and supernatural creatures.''

==The Ghuzz==

''The Ghuzz are a race of magicblooded humans who originate from the steppes to the north of Persia and east of the Caspian Sea. Legend tells that they are the scions of the biblical giants Gog and Magog, and there is no denying the giant blood that runs strong in these fearsome tribesmen. In addition to their size and their warrior reputations, the Ghuzz are also infamous for their uncontrollable nature. They would be all the more terrible if they could remain organized or loyal enough for long enough to make an effective force. The Ghuzz can be found in many of the southern provinces of Persia, particularly Kirman, Makran, and Seistan. Ghuzz breed and ride huge horses; those of the magic kin are the size of elephants.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ghuzz Characters==

''All Ghuzz tribesmen have the Large Virtue, except for those in whom the blood of Gog and Magog runs strong. These, typically the leaders of the Ghuzz, are magic kin, and they have the Giant Blood Virtue, and a Greater Immunity to mental manipulation. These Ghuzz cannot be swayed through mundane or magical means, and thus cannot be controlled through Leadership, Charm, or Folk Ken, through Virtues such as Inspirational, or even through the Command the Masses Greater Power Virtue common among the Ghuzz leaders. The Ghuzz — magical kin or otherwise — often have the Rebellious Personality Flaw.''
''New Virtue: Greater Power (Command The Masses)''
''Major, Supernatural This new Virtue grants the Command the Masses power that is described later. The Greater Power Virtue is further described in Realms of Power: Magic, page 44. Command the Masses, no cost, Init Qik – 2, Mentem: The Ghuzz can issue an order, and a standard Group of men are strongly inclined to obey this order. In battle, this secures total leadership, and the Ghuzz need not spend his turn forming a trained group or chang''
''ing their actions. ReMe 30 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Diam, +2 Group) Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might/Fatigue cost, +1 Init)''
''New Flaw: Rebellious''
''Major or Minor, Personality The character reacts adversely to any attempt to impose authority over him, and actively works against those who are in command. He does not necessarily have any desire to be a leader himself, but he does not easily submit to another’s leadership.''

|}

==The Cradle & The Crescent Fars==

''This province was the birthplace of two of the greatest Persian dynasties, the Achaemenians (6th–4th centuries BC) and Sassanian (3rd–7th centuries AD). It thus gave its name to the whole region, for the original name Parsa became Hellenized to Persis. Fars is currently an atabegate ruled from Shiraz by the Salghurid dynasty. Climatically, the province is divided into two parts: the Hot Lands (Garmsir), the lowlands near the coast; and the Cold Lands (Sardsir) to the north, in the highlands. In its southwest corner is the desert of Mandistan.''

==Arranjan==

''The westernmost of Fars’ five great cities, Arranjan lies on the south bank of the Tab River, which forms the border with Khuzistan. It is surrounded by date gardens and olive groves, and is known for both soap and bitumen. There have long been Isma’ili strongholds on the many hilltops around Arranjan, and the city itself has recently been captured by the Isma’ilis.''

==Darabgerd==

''The circular city of Darabgerd was founded by a family of Daylamite origin, and has always held Isma’ili sympathies even if this has not been openly declared. Near Darabgerd is the Kubbat-al-Mumiya, the “Bitumen Dome,” which is locked by an iron door and opened once a year when an officer of the sultan arrives and gathers in a box the twelve months’ accumulation of bitumen for royal use.''

==Kajaran==

''This is a small but prosperous town near the Persian Gulf. Endemic to the region is a type of magical worm that grants skill and luck to those that possess it. The''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Well of Hindijan==

''Hindijan is the port of Arranjan on the lower reaches of the Tab River. Many fruitless nights have been spent by treasure hunters in Hindijan, searching for a cache of treasure rumored to be hidden there. A certain''
''well has drawn much interest from the treasure hunters; it emits poisonous vapors, such that any bird flying over it fall dead into the well. However, because of its poison, the well remains as yet unexplored.''

==Salt of Seven Colors==

''Near to Darabgerd is a hill where rock salt of seven colors is occasionally dug out. This salt is of interest to sahirs for it is Dedicated Vis (Realms of Power: Magic, page 122), exceptionally suited to the summoning of jinn, who find it particularly pleasing. Each pawn of this vis gives the same bonus as two pawns of normal vis when summoning jinn (but not other types of spirit). Princes like to keep control of the salt mines and use the salt of seven colors to court sahirs, or reward them.''
''Story Seed: Summoner’s Salts''
''A sahir is gifted with a princely sum of salt of seven colors, either as''
''an inducement or a reward for a trivial task. This allows him to summon and bargain with much more powerful jinn than he ever could before, and his benefactor hints that he can get much more. Unfortunately, the salt provided to the sahir is tainted to be highly addictive, and the jinni summoned keeps demanding more and more. This is fine while the benefactor keeps supplying the salt, but he eventually starts to ask for bigger and bigger favors. The sahir comes to the characters (or perhaps is one of the characters) in need of solutions: how to escape from the powerful jinni he has summoned, and how to uncover the nefarious plot of his “benefactor.”''

==The Kajarani Worms==

''The worms are an unusual Beast of Virtue, in that they can be Enriched (Realms of Power: Magic, page 124) while they are still alive. A worm must be kept on its own in a box for a season, and not be exposed to any light during this period. Every day the worm must be fed twelve mulberry leaves, each one precisely folded into a pellet. At the end of the season, the worm grants the Luck Virtue to the person who fed it. If it was fed by more than one person, it dies. A Kajarani worm eats any other worms it comes across. After a year, the Enrichment process must be repeated, or else the worm dies. If repeated, the worm grows bigger — to the size of a mouse — and grants Puissant (Abil''
''ity) Virtue to its owner in addition to Luck. To prevent the worm from dying it can be Enriched in the third and fourth years; the worm grows to the size of a cat and a dog respectively, and grants the Venus’ Blessing Virtue in the third year and the Wealthy Virtue in the fourth. All Virtues are cumulative, but if the worm dies, they are lost. However, in the third year the possessor of a worm cannot refuse to pander to the worm’s comfort (the Compulsion Flaw); and in the fourth year it begins to repulse him, eventually developing into the Fear Flaw. No one in Kajaran permits their worms to live for a fifth year, in fear of becoming another Haftvad.''

|}
''fortune it grants is proportional to its size, but the Kajarani are careful not to allow the worm to grow too big. In the past, Haftvad allowed his worm to grow for seven years, into a glossy black dragon with a splendid saffron-colored pattern on it. Once a simple peasant, Haftvad used his good luck to became a tyrant who controlled all the land from Basra to Kirman. His armies defeated King Ardeshir (founder of the Sasanid dynasty), and it was not until Ardeshir killed the elephant-sized dragon with boiling lead that Haftvad’s luck ran out and he was slain. Haftvad’s mighty fortress still exists, hidden high in the mountains.''

==Istakhr==

''The governance of the north district of Fars is administered from Istakhr, which was known to the Greeks as Persepolis. Around and inside the city are several buildings that date to the time of Jamshid and King Solomon. The shores of nearby Lake Bakhtigan are crowded with villages''
''growing rice and pomegranates. On the hills to the northwest of the city are the Sih Gundaban, the “Three Domes,” three great fortresses, behind which has been built a great dam in a deep gorge. The dam provides sufficient water for a thousand men during a year long siege. There is also a training ground on a flat hilltop. Between Shiraz and Istakhr is the Forest of Kamfiruz, an oak forest surrounded by pasture land, and the town of Bayda. The forest is home to fierce lions, which are the terror of the cattle on its pasture.''

==Kish==

''The island of Kish is the principal port of the Persian Gulf. A great walled city dominates Kish, which lies about 12 miles from the coast. Famous in its own right for the pearls fished here, Kish throngs with trade from Arabia, Africa, and Al-Sindh; products are transported to Huzu on the mainland and taken north to Shiraz. Kish has risen in prominence over the last hundred years or''
''so, since the previous port of Siraf further west around the coast was destroyed by an earthquake that lasted seven days.''
''Abarkavan''
''The Long Island is home to pirates and raiders, and is the bane of the emir of Kish who prefers that the traders coming to his port are unmolested. Kish’s lucrative pearl fishery banks are also close to Abarkavan, and divers risk encounters with the pirates whenever they collect their harvest. The pirates have among their number an elementalist (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 2) who plays havoc with the wind and waves.''

==Mount Kavarvand==

''This mountain is home to Adur Farnbag, one of the three Royal Fires of Zoroastrianism (for the others, see Mihr and Takht-i-Suleiman, later). The Royal Fires were believed to have been ignited before creation, and brought forth on the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==King Jamshid==

''The fourth king to rule the world, according to the Shahnameh, Jamshid made his capital at Istakhr, which then was called Takht-e Jamshed. He was a mighty sorcerer who had control over all the jinn of the world, and invented armor and weapons, weaving and dyeing, masonry, making wine, and navigation and ship-building. He was endowed with the royal farr, a shining light that indicated the blessing of Ahura Mazda. However, he grew to boast of his accomplishments, and the farr abandoned him. Without the farr, Zahhak (see later) was able to make war on him, and Jamshid was brutally murdered by the demonic tyrant.''
''The Jaam-e Jam''
''The Cup of Jamshid is a silver cup ringed seven times with gold and gems. For it to work, it must be filled with an''
''elixir of immortality. This can be any liquid that grants long life, such as al-Iksir (see Chapter 3: Order of Suleiman) or a Hermetic Longevity Ritual in an appropriate form. This liquid must be invented afresh each time it is made, and brewed specifically for the user of the cup; this permits use of the device for one season. Once used in the cup, the elixir loses its magical properties. When activated, the cup allows the bearer to see any place in the world, similar to Summoning the Distant Image, but without the need for an Arcane Connection to the place scried. The user needs to merely mention the name of the place to be viewed, and an image appears in the cup. The Jaam-e Jam can also give visions of the heavens, which doubles the wielder’s Artes Liberales for astrological calculations, and doubles Solomonic Astrology for magical workings. The Cup of Jamshid was used by the ancient Persian dynasties right up to the''
''Muslim invasion. It was never taken by the Arab rulers and remained hidden in Istakhr until rediscovered by a sahir several years ago.''
''Story Seed: The Spying Sahir''
''The sahir in possession of the Cup of Jamshid has been using it for petty purposes — spying on his neighbors and rivals, which may include the characters. In the midst of his nosy scrying, he stumbles upon a noted member of the community doing something unconscionable, such as binding a sentient being, sacrificing to the devil, or something similar. There is no way he can reveal what he has seen without revealing how, and so he must manipulate the characters through his secret knowledge of them, making them uncover the nefarious deeds of the eminent citizen.''

|}
''back of the ox Srishok to propagate faith and protect mankind. Adur Farnbag is to be found within a terrestrial Divine regio (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 13) with an aura of 8. The entrance to the regio opens on the west side of the mountain every dawn and the east side of the mountain every dusk; the pure holy fire pours forth from the regio entrance, earning Kavarvand the epithet of “the shining mountain.” Adur Farnbag is housed within a Zoroastrian fire temple. It is accounted the most holy of the three Royal Fires because it is seen as the earthly representation of the yazata Atar, who burns in the presence of Ahura Mazda. It was originally located in Khwarazm, but later brought here by mobeds who still dwell on Kavarvand, thanks to the Gifts of Gayomart (see Chapter 5: Mythic Zoroastrianism). Adur Farnbag represents the priests of Ahura Mazda, and anyone who is an ervad or higher initiate receives a bonus to all Ability and magic rolls equal to their Theology: Mazdean Ability while within the regio. Mount Kavarvand is a place of pilgrimage for Zoroastrians. Any temple fire which is lit from a flame deriving from Adur Farnbag has its Divine aura increased by an additional +1.''

==Shiraz==

''Shiraz was made the capital of the Persian empire by the Buyid dynasty (945–1055), who decorated it with palaces, with mosques, and with the great''
''wall that surrounds it. Today, Shiraz is famed as a place of learning, home to several academies and schools of famous poets, and it has been granted the epithet of Dar al-Elm, the House of Knowledge. Its central position in Fars makes it a thoroughfare for most of the province’s business and trade. It is packed with narrow, crowded markets, and boasts three great mosques. Perhaps the most famous structures of Shiraz are its many shrines to the imamzadihs — the relatives or descendents of the twelve Shi’i imams. Each imamzadih can grant a different miraculous power (mostly regarding healing specific ailments, finding a spouse, or easing childbirth), and the shrines vie for the attention of pilgrims and visitors.''

==Shapur==

''The City of Flowers, as it is sometimes known, Shapur’s exports are irises, violets, jasmine, narcissuses, and, most notably, the red rose of Shapur. Ten different kinds of perfumed oil are made in Shapur, made from the various flowers of the city. Of these, attar of roses is perhaps the most famous; this expensive perfume makes it all the way to the courts of England and France.''

==Yazd==

''The mountainous region around Yazd became the stronghold of Zoroastrianism after the coming of Islam to Persia, and remains one of the few regions where the Mazdean faith is still practiced openly. The mountains around Yazd contain six holy shrines, or pirs, which form the destinations for yearly communal pilgrimages for the Zoroastrian villages, and an excuse for feasting and dancing. The city of Yazd is well-fortified, and has two iron gates on the Istakhr road. The city is very fertile, thanks to the streams that flow from the nearby mountains, and it seems like paradise to have such a fertile land so close to the Great Deserts. The mobeds are held responsible for this minor miracle.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Black Man==

''In a cave near Shapur is a 40-foottall statue of a man carved in black stone. At the base of the statue are three carved leaves. Some say that the statue is carved to represent King Shapur; others believe it to have been a real man turned to stone by God. The kings of Persia’s ancient dynasties used to anoint the statue in oils, but none have given it homage for many centuries. The cave behind the statue has a waterfall, and a wind always seems to be blowing from its mouth. The statue is actually a mighty div (demon), bound into this statue by a mobed many centuries ago. It is believed''
''to be one of the 45 named demons (Chapter 5: Mythic Zoroastrianism), but which one is unknown. Knowing he was not powerful enough to bind the demon in perpetuity, he fashioned the three leaves — originally colored green — as a warning of when to repeat the binding; as it eroded the color would fade from the leaves. In the days of the Zoroastrians, the anointment of the statue was accompanied by a blessing by the mobeds to renew the binding. Since the days of Muslim rule this practice was abolished as idolatry, and the demon is close to being free. Only one tenth of one of the leaves remains green.''

==The Imamzadihs of Shiraz==

''The shrine of the brother of the fourth imam and the shrine to the daughter of the sixth imam have a long and bitter rivalry. The former is found on the Street of Butchers, and is known for baraka to cure injuries to the limbs. The latter has a much more prominent position just off the main square, and grants baraka to cure all problems with the feet. When a powerful emir is inflicted with a painful abscess on his foot,''
''devotees of each shrine clamor for his attention, knowing the prestige (and riches) they will earn from his healing. Characters who have been healed at one of the shrines might be asked to provide testimony, and get caught up in the riots when the other shrine tries to disrupt the proceedings. The emir might ask the characters to determine which of the two shrines is the most worthy — or the most likely — to cure his complaint.''

|}

==Jibal==

''Named “the mountains” (al-jibal) by the Arabs, this province is dominated by the Zagros mountains which run northwest to southeast along its southern quarter. Its four great cities (Hamadan, Isfahan, Kirmanshah, and Qazvin) have all at one time been home to one or more of Persia’s dynasties or conquerors, and their fortunes have waxed and waned; but at all times the largest city Isfahan has flourished. South of Hamadan is the emirate of Luristan, the home of the Lurs, a semi-nomadic people who herd goats in the foothills of the Zagros mountains. The chief road through Jibal — called the Khurasan Road — passes from Baghdad to Kirmanshah, then Hamadan, and Rayy before heading into Qumis through the Caspian Gates. Jibal is one of the most densely populated of Persia’s provinces, and has a correspondingly high number of sahirs. It is common to see a sahir carried aloft on a jinni-made whirl''
''wind, or riding one of Isfahan’s famous flying carpets, speeding to some important engagement.''

==Isfahan==

''Arising in the Zagros Mountains to the west of Isfahan, the Zayandah River passes through the city and flows into the swamp of Gav-Khanah on the borders of the Dashti Kavir. Here the river sinks underground and emerges 90 leagues away in Kirman, where it eventually reaches the sea. This, the biggest of Jibal’s cities, lies on the northern bank of the Zayandah River. It is actually a twinned city: to the east is Jay, surrounded by a wall with a hundred towers, and to the west is Al-Yahudiyah, the “town of the Jews,” who have dwelt here since the time of Nebuchadnezzar. The noted physician Ibn Sina (known as Avicenna in the West) lived and taught here. Isfahan exports silk and cotton, as well as saffron and all kinds of fruit, but it''
''is for its carpets — the famed Persian rug — that Isfahan is best known.''

==Kargas Kuh and Siyah Kuh==

''The “Vulture Hills” and “Black Hills” are the highest points on the plain of Persia: black, evil-looking mountains, and famous hiding-places for robbers. Between the two mountain ranges is the caravanserai of Dayr al-Jiss, where, by order of the Sultan, four great tanks are kept full of water to supply travelers crossing the Dasht-i Kavir.''

==Kirmanshah==

''This is the seat of the semi-independent province of Kurdistan, which was created in about 1150 by Sultan San''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Persian Rugs==

''A famed export from all over Persia is the intricately woven carpet or rug, and the center of excellence in Persia is Isfahan. A traditional Isfahan rug has an ivory-colored field bearing a single central medallion surrounded by leaves and vines. Vibrant hues of blue, rose, and indigo are employed using dyeing techniques that are a closely guarded secret of the Isfahani weavers. There are several weavers of magical carpets in Isfahan; these craftsmen mostly have the Touched by Magic Major Virtue (City & Guild, page 72). This Virtue allows a weaver to make a magical carpet by adding the magnitude of the magical effect and the Uses per Day modifier to the basic Craft Total of 12. Each weaver can only instill magical effects which cover two Hermetic Forms. A magical carpet only ever operates for the person for whom it was made. The two most famous weavers are Dadvand and Yarankush. Dadvand is a''
''manufacturer of the famed flying carpet. Dadvand’s family have been making these carpets since the time of the Sasanids, and they have patrons among the Suhhar Sulayman. These are exceptionally expensive due to the skill required to make them. Dadvand makes other magical rugs as well, such as ones that promote an aura of health which speeds recovery from wounds. Yarankush is known for making carpets which protect their owner. He specializes in rugs that let out a loud noise when they are stepped on by anyone other than their owner, and in these days of secret murder such carpets are a boon to any powerful man. Unknown to all, Yarankush is a member of the Isma’ili assassin sect (see later), and in the design of the carpet he hides a secret warning so that they know not to step on it. Since advertising that one has a Yarankush rug defeats the point of having one, this has not affected Yarankush’s sales.''
''Dadvand’s Steed of the Air''
''Twice per day, this heavy woolen carpet can lift off the ground and transport its owner, and everything he is carrying, through the air as fast as a horse can run. ReAn 15 (Base 1, +1 Conc, +2 very unnatural motion, +1 carry person on carpet, +1 speed; +5 maintains concentration). Ease Factor to make: 16''
''Yarankush’s Murderers’ Chagrin''
''Twice per day, the owner can activate the warning function of this carpet. As long as he remains in contact with the carpet (sleeping or sitting on it, for example), any other individual touching the carpet causes it to emit a loud sound for a round; each carpet produces a different noise. CrIm 3 (Base 1, +1 Touch, +1 Size). Ease Factor to make: 14''

|}
''jar for his nephew. Kirmanshah boasts a great mosque and a sumptuous palace. About a day’s march east of Kirmanshah are the sculptures of Bustam, carved into the black rock of the mountainside. These depict King Darius receiving tribute from his subject kings, and the much later sculptures of King Khursaw Parviz and Queen Shirin, whose story is well known — Shirin was loved by the sculptor Farhad, who killed himself in despair for his love of her.''
''Kanguvar''
''Kanguvar, called Kasr-al Lusus, the Robber’s Castle, by the Arabs, lies near to the road heading east from Kirmanshah; it is so named because of the larcenous activities of its inhabitants. Travelers are well-advised to count their fingers and toes after passing through Kanguvar.''

==Qum==

''Perhaps the second most holy place to Islam in Persia after Mashhad, Qum bears a shrine to the Fatima, sister of Imam Reza (see Mashhad, later). Buried with her are the three daughters of the ninth imam. Reza once told the faithful that a pilgrimage to his sister’s tomb would assure entrance to Paradise.''
''A few miles east of Qum is the mosque of Jam Karan. In 986 Hassan ibn Muthih was visited by the Imam of the Ages and the prophet al-Khidr, and told to build a mosque on the sacred ground of Jam Karan. The mosque built at his direction is virtually unequaled in Persia in terms of architecture and embellishment. The mosque has a Dominion aura of 7.''

==Rayy==

''The city of Rayy is strongly fortified, and has five gates over the five roads that radiate from here — to Hamadan, Qazvin, Mazandaran, Khurasan, and Qum. The inner city, containing the mosque and the houses of the bureaucrats, is surrounded by a ditch. The outer city surrounds and overlooks the inner city, and has a prominent fruit market selling melons, peaches, apricots, and so forth. It also exports bluedyed cotton, particularly as striped cloth, and hardwood taken from the Mazandaran forests. On a nearby mountain there is a shrine dedicated to Shahr Banu, a Sasanid princess and mother of the fourth Shi’i imam. Legend has it that the princess was swallowed by the mountain rather than allowing her enemies to kill her. For centuries before there had been a shrine here dedicated to Anahita, the Mazdean yazata of water and fertility. The spring at the shrine''
''is a source of Aquam vis, if the water is collected when Venus is in the sky.''

==Savah==

''The people of Savah are camel-drivers and herders, but the great mosque of Savah contains a magical library unequaled in Persia. Attached to the town’s mosque is a hospital and a tall domed tower, which houses the library on its lower floors and an observatory at its top. The tower is staffed by Savah’s House of Wisdom, all of whom are members of the Ashab al-Najm (see Chapter 3: Order of Suleiman). The observatory of Savah is world-renowned, containing innumerable star maps ranging from ancient Babylonia to the current day, and the state-of-the-art in astronomical instruments. In addition to having a Magic aura of 5, the observatory grants a +3 bonus to any astrology rolls, including use of Solomonic Astrology. The current Asala of the Ashab alNajm hails from Savah, a wizened old man named Meriq al-Asala al-Qalani al-Safar al-Najm. He is mostly known for wearing a strange hat that looks like it is inside-out, and joking that his hat does not sit on his head, but rather that his head sits on his hat. After the previous Asala left in 1186 (see Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia, Nasibin), Meriq stepped forward to represent the family, to general acceptance by the''
''other astrologer-viziers at the Majlis, who consulted the heavens. Many of them now think he does not take the responsibility seriously enough, but do not feel they should ask him to step down. He does not have The Gift, but is nonetheless a gifted communicator and has written many excellent books on Artes Liberales and Solomonic Astrology, among other subjects.''

==Takht-i-Suleiman==

''The “Throne of Solomon” is located in a semi-circular valley in the mountains of Jibal. At the summit of a small, flat-topped hill is a small but deep lake fed by an underwater spring. On its shores is a remarkably well-preserved Mazdean fire temple, whose walls are co-terminal with a terrestrial Divine regio of aura 8. The regio is the resting place of Adur Gushnasp, one of the three Royal Fires of Zoroastrian belief (see Mount Kavarvand earlier for more details of the Royal Fires). Adur Gushnasp is particularly attuned to warriors and nobles, and a weapon made in a forge lit from Adur Gushnap and quenched in the waters of the lake receives a +4 bonus to invoking God’s aid in battle (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 41) whenever the warrior for whom it was made uses that weapon. This bonus lasts for a number of years equal to the wielder’s Theology: Mazdean Ability. The weapon loses all power permanently if used by another.''

==Khuzistan==

''Khuzistan is the most ancient inhabited area in Persia, once known as Elam''
''in the days of old Babylon. Khuzistan occupies the watershed of the great Karun River, which starts in the Zagros mountains, and Khuzistan’s well-watered plains are used to grow sugar cane. Its many rivers have been canalized to serve the fields and the towns, and all are navigable by boat. The northern reaches of the province are home to the semi-nomadic Lurs (who also occupy southern Jibal). Khuzistan is ruled by a Ghuzz atabeg of the Hazarasp family who has sworn loyalty to the Khwarazm-shah.''

==Ahwaz==

''The capital of the province of Khuzistan, Ahwaz is plagued by jinn who cause it to be unbearably hot during the day, and swarming with biting flies at night. The crashing of the waterbound jinn over Ahwaz’s weir keeps those not used to it up at night, and the fields around the city are plagued with all manner of snakes and scorpions.''

==Gundeshapur==

''The city of Gundeshapur is home to the great medical school and hospital known as the House of Healing. It was founded by the sahir Bakhtyshu, a Nestorian Christian and one of members of the wise council of Harun that reformed the Suhhar Sulayman. His descendents still run the school, which was funded by the Seljuk Sultans and has remained in high regard with the Khwarazm-shah. Unsurprisingly, the House of Healing is also Gundeshapur’s largest bayt al-hikma. It is a palatial building near the center of town, with doors open to every direction''
''and covered porches of canvas held up by wooden columns on all four sides. It has many windows depicting the stories of the members of the First Council, though many locals mistakenly believe them to depict Christian legends, and a great hall surrounded by an outer corridor (much like a cloister). The whole house is inside a Divine aura, which the sahirs must work around by digging out laboratories deep beneath the ground where there are many buried pockets of Magic power, and these rooms are connected with the common area by long, narrow ladders. The vizier currently representing the bayt at Gundeshapur is Nil al-Wazir alSalih al-Yad, a sahir of Christian descent who converted to Islam after joining the Suhhar. Many believe that he maintains a dangerously close association with the sahir sect called the Nizaris (see The Nizari Isma’ili State, later), members of which have occasionally visited him at the famous House of Healing. The Ashab al-Yad have always had a poor reputation in the Suhhar, however, and Nil has never seemed particularly troubled by these accusations at Majlis. He is said to be a great historian, very knowledgeable about past events of the Middle East, and also wellversed in European history. He is not especially skilled at Solomonic Medicine, as others of his family might expect him to be, but instead seems to prefer the art of Solomonic Storytelling, and is said to have an enchanting singing voice.''

==Ramhurmuz==

''A rich town that makes its living from silk and perfume, Ramhurmuz also boasts a modest library. The sahirs of Ramhurmuz in the past made contact with one of the fabled sorcerers of Soqotra (see Rival Magic). For several years the exotic wizard studied with them and they exchanged ideas; but in his naivety he gave away many of the secrets of his island, including the recipes for many perfumes which the sahirs made into a commercial success. When he realized that he had been duped, the sorcerer left, but not before laying a fearful curse on the district, which every year is inundated with gnats and biting midges.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Alchemist of Ahwaz==

''There is an alchemist who claims to be able to turn base metals into gold who lives in Ahwaz. He needs a few magical ingredients to effect this change, and promises to share his yield with characters if they help him get the supplies he''
''needs. Key among these ingredients is the wood collected by the gryphons that live in the Zagros mountains for their nests. However, he intends to abandon his helpers to the mercy of the gryphons, so as to safeguard his secret recipe.''

|}
''District of the Zutt''
''The Zutt are a tribe that dwells to the southeast of Ramhurmuz, close to the border with Fars. They are a seminomadic people who claim to originate from beyond Al-Sind, and they travel in wagons richly painted with vibrant designs. The Zutt themselves favor flamboyant colors in their dress, utilizing delicate silks and heavily-dyed linen. The Zutt have a reputation for larceny, and the Khuzistani are usually hostile to them when they arrive in town to trade. Zutt women are known for being powerful Folk Witches (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 3). Occasionally the Zutt wander further afield, and have been encountered Egypt and in Samarkand. Furthermore, some of the covenfolk of Atsingani (see The Lion and the Lily, page 76) bear a close resemblance to the Zutt.''

==Kirman==

''Kirman, although technically part of Persia, has a history of remaining virtually independent. The Ghuzz had ruled the region since invading across the desert fifty years ago, but their authority has disintegrated under their notorious inability to be ruled themselves, and the Ghuzz have entered into the ranks of the Khwarazm-shah’s army, which now occupies Kirman. Kirman is mostly steppe and semi-desert, and is famous for its oranges, dates, and pistachios. It is the home to several secretive communities of Mazdeans, who try to not draw attention to themselves, for they have been heavily persecuted in the past. A quarter of the province is taken up by the Jabal Kufs, mountains found to the south of the Dasht-i Lut.''

==Bardasir==

''The city of Bardasir is an important trading center, set between the west of Persia and Khurasan. Outside the town''
''on a very tall hill is the provincial governor’s palace, set amid lush gardens. The city is guarded by a second fortress at the gate, and a third castle overlooks the houses from the center of the city. Despite all this military might, Bardasir was still sacked during the Ghuzz invasion, and it has been overtaken by Sirjan in importance.''

==Jiruft==

''This city lies on the Div Rud — the “Demon River” — that thunders with such force that waterwheels throughout the city supply power to the processing of indigo, cotton, and grain. The forests around Jiruft are home to lions, and the city is under siege from the fierce creatures. Anyone approaching the city must brave the deepshadowed forests, and trade with the outside has dried to a trickle in recent years. The lions of Jiruft are ruled by a jinni, who took over the pride about a decade ago. Since he extended his glamour over the forest of Jiruft it has acquired a Faerie aura, and the lions have become mildly Warped in the process.''

==Mazandaran==

''This is the collective name given to the provinces between the Caspian Sea and the Alborz mountains. Gilan is the easternmost province (see Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia), with Daylam to its south, then Tabaristan further west (whose chief city is Amul), then Gurgan in the far west (whose capital is also called Gurgan). During the Muslim conquest of Persia, Mazandaran was never taken, partly due to its protection by the Alborz mountains to the south and partly due to the strong resistance put forth by its aristocratic Mazdean families. The Bavand family remained in control of Mazandaran for 200 years, before they were eventually brought down by the Nizari Isma’ilis (see later) in 1125, who are now dominant in the region. Mazandaran was known to the ancient world as Hyrcania, a land famous for its tigers (see insert). The region is exceptionally fertile with a tropical climate, and the Zoroastrians believe that it was especially blessed by Ahura Mazda. Unlike most of Persia, houses in Mazandaran are usually built of wood rather than brick, and it is''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Balu Tribesmen==

''The Jabal Kufs are occupied by Balu tribesmen who are greatly feared by the Persians. Travelers’ tales recount that they use rocks to stone their victims to death in order not to needlessly blunt their swords. They are rumored to need neither food nor drink, and to have the tireless nature of their war-camels. The Balu detest the Ghuzz, but consider them worthy enemies to use their swords upon.''
''The Balu have a strong dose of Jinni Blood (Chapter 3: The Jinn), and very often have the Greater Immunity to Thirst Virtue. They are usually accompanied by their jinn kinsmen on their raids, and they have wise men who possess Faerie Summoning and Bonding (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 131–133). Their war leaders are occasionally bonded to desert or mountain jinni, allowing them access to their faerie powers.''

==Story Seed: The Lion-Shah==

''When the lion-shah hears that the lions of Kamfiruz in Fars (see Istakhr, earlier) are being persecuted by the local emir, he asks the characters to protect them, and if possible, bring them''
''to Jiruft so that they may be safe. In return, he offers his gratitude and that of the lions; this could prove a valuable commodity to a sahir or to an animal trainer.''

|}
''particularly famed for an exotic hardwood called khalanj. Mazandaran is a magical battleground between three factions of magicians. First, in the southwest is Daylam, which is one of the few strongholds of Zoroastrianism remaining in Persia. Second are the Nizari Isma’ilis, who have strongholds in the Alborz mountains and dominate the political scene in Mazandaran. Finally, there are the yatus of Mount Damavand. The members of these three groups clash regularly. All three groups have deep religious convictions that they will never agree upon, and Isma’ilism in particular is a proselytizing faith which seeks to unite all men under its banner, and remove those who refuse to convert. Furthermore, the yatus and the Nizaris fight over vis sources, the mobeds and Nizari fight to influence or control the local rulers, and the mobeds''
''detest the yatus for their paganism and presumed diabolism.''

==Daylam==

''This highland region resides in Gilan and Mazandaran, but may as well be a country in its own right. At the height of its power in the tenth century, Daylam encompassed all of Gilan, Tabaristan, Gurgan, and Qumis; now all of these provinces are under separate rule, and Daylam is identified culturally rather than geographically or politically. The Alborz mountains isolate Daylam from the Persian plateau, and it is inhabited by a fiercely independent people who resisted the rule of the Sasanids and the Arabs. The Daylami were one of the last peoples in Persia to''
''accept Islam, and Zoroastrianism is still relatively strong here, existing uncomfortably alongside Isma’ili Islam. The Nizari Isma’ilis hold fifty castles in Daylam, of which the chief is Alamut (see later), the strongest is Maimun-Diz, and the most remote is Lamasar.''

==Qumis==

''The province of Qumis lies at the eastern Alborz mountains south of Tabaristan. Its chief settlement is the city of Damghan, which is virtually the only non-Isma’ili settlement in the province. The emir of Qumis is under siege in his own land, and he treads very carefully so as to not upset his subjects, never knowing which of them is a Nizari. Isma’ili efforts in Qumis''

==Hyrcanian Vis==

''Vis is plentiful in the lush and fertile lands of Mazandaran. The yatus attribute this to Mount Damavand, believing it to be the source of all vis in the world, whereas the Daylami mobeds consider it part of Ahura Mazda’s bounty. Vis commonly accumulates in the unique or unusual in Mazandaran: for example, if a chicken lays three brown eggs and one white, the white one contains vis. In a field of wheat, it is the ear that has thirteen grains that has the vis. The furthest piece of driftwood on the Caspian shore might also contain vis. Characters can spend time searching for vis by following up on rumors gleaned from locals, and the hunter can expect to follow blind alleys or find that the vis has already gone. Searching for vis takes a base time of one season, and the character must travel through an area the size of a small county. Make a Perception + Area Lore: Mazandaran roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Success indicates a pawn of vis. For every point in excess of the Ease Factor, either another pawn of vis is found, or the time taken is halved. These can be combined in the case of a good roll; for example,''
''a character who makes the roll by 8 may take 11 days (halving four times) to find five pawns of vis. Renewable sources of vis cannot be found using this method; those should result from stories instead.''
''Search for Vis: Per + Mazandaran Lore + Modifiers +''

===Simple Die Against an Ease Factor of 9===

''Condition: Spell that detects vis* Modifier: + magnitude of spell with highest Target parameter''
''Condition: Magic Sensitivity* Modifier: + Ability''
''Condition: (Realm) Lore** Modifier: +Ability''
''Condition: Entire region searched within a Magic aura Modifier: +aura''
''Condition: Searched this area in the last season Modifier: –15''
''Condition: Searched this area in the last six months Modifier: –9''
''Condition: Searched this area in the last year Modifier: –3''
''* Only one of these bonuses can be used ** 	 Cannot grant a bonus greater than the character’s Mazandaran Lore. Further, if Magic Lore is not used, half of the vis found (rounded up) is tainted by the Realm applicable to the Lore used.''
''The storyguide can adjust the Ease Factor according to the density of local magicians or magical creatures. For example, if another sahir has searched in the region in the previous year, then the –3 penalty from the table is appropriate, even if the character has not searched here recently. At the storyguide’s option, this mechanic can be used to find vis in other regions (with the appropriate Area Lore), although the yield is typically lower. The Ease Factor would be 12 for a typical wilderness region, 15 in a settled area, and 18 in a city. Most sahirs living in the region — whether of yatu or Nizari training — discover or are granted a Personal Vis Source (as per the Virtue) early in their career.''
''are coordinated from the great mountain stronghold of Girdkuh. Girdkuh charges a toll on all travelers through Qumis, since it is on the only route between western Persia and Khurasan that does not cross the Great Desert.''

==The Great Wall of Gurgan==

''This immense fortification stretches from the eastern shore of the Caspian Sea eastwards and north to end in the Pishkamar Mountains. The wall is over 120 miles in length, with 35 forts placed approximately every 30 miles. The wall is 25 feet wide, about 20 feet tall, and has a central canal carrying water throughout its entire length. It is made of red bricks, reinforced by steel and adamantine — an unbreakable metal''
''made from diamonds by certain magicians. There is a Magic aura of 5 along the length of the wall. Legend holds that the wall was built on the order of Alexander the Great (and thus is sometimes called Sadd-i-Iksandar, the dam of Alexander) to keep the descendents of Gog and Magog from entering Persia. In this purpose it seems to have failed, for the Ghuzz (see earlier) entered Persia a century ago, and were invited to stay.''
''One of the reasons it might have failed to repel the Ghuzz is a breach in the wall, at the closest fort to the Gates of Alexander, which mark the western terminus of the wall close to the Caspian shore. No one knows how recent the breach is, but since its discovery the local sahirs have noted the lack of the aura alignment (Realms of Power: Magic, page 16) that used to mark the Wall of Gurgan, in that spells''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Caspian Gates==

''Through the province of Qumis runs the road from Rayy to Nishapur. This road passes through the Caspian Gates, or Sirdara to the Persians. The “gates” are an interminable narrow gorge cutting through the mountains; carts can only advance in single file''
''between the vertical cliff faces, and progress is hindered further by the water pouring down the rocks and the swarms of serpents that haunt the area. Merchants still risk the road in preference to taking the route across the Great Desert.''

==Hyrcanian Tiger==

''Magic Might: 10 (Animal) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun +1, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +5 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Affinity with Athletics, Improved Characteristics, Puissant Athletics; Proud Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: No Fatigue; Improved Abilities (x3), Improved Attack (trip), Minor Virtue (Great Quickness) (x2), Personal Power Qualities: Crafty, Fast Runner, Pursuit Predator, Tireless* * A magical Hyrcanian tiger suffers no fatigue, but a mundane tiger has this Quality. Personality Traits: Vain +5, Swift* +3, Brave +1 * This is an Essential Trait; see Realms of Power: Magic, page 54. Combat: Bite: Init +5, Attack +11, Defense +12, Damage +1 Trip: Init +4, Attack +11, Defense +13, Damage n/a*''
''* 	 If the tiger exceeds its opponent’s Defense Total by 3; it is knocked prone. Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 6+2 (running), Awareness 3 (gazelle), Brawl 5 (bite), Dasht-i Kavir Lore 2 (oases), Hunt 4 (gazelle), Survival 3 (semi-desert) Powers: Swiftness of Thought, 1 point, Init +4, Animal: A Hyrcanian tiger can naturally move at incredible speeds, but by spending a Might point it moves an extra 500 paces for a single round. ReAn 20 (Base 20, by analogy with ReCo) Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost) Vis: 2 pawns Animal, in feet. Appearance: The Hyrcanian tiger is a long-legged tawny cat, about 7 feet long (including a 3 foot tail), and weighing about 150 pounds. Tigers in Mythic Europe have spots rather than stripes, although naturally you can have striped tigers in your saga if you prefer.''
''Hyrcanian Tigers are found in Mazandaran and Persia’s northern desert. The tiger is named after its swift flight (coming from a word meaning “arrow”), and gives its name to the Tigris River. The ancient Persian kings loved keeping Hyrcanian tigers as pets, and even today the nobility set hunters to steal cubs to be trained for the hunt. The pursuing mother can be distracted by glass spheres; on seeing her own reflection she thinks it is her cub and is cheated from her revenge. The tiger receives a +3 to all rolls involving running. For a mundane version of this creature, remove the Might score, Magical Qualities, Powers, and vis from the earlier description. A Hyrcanian tiger is more than twice as swift than the fastest horse, even without magical powers, but can normally only sustain such speeds for one or two rounds. Its prey’s only hope of escape is to dodge and weave, since the Hyrcanian tiger cannot make sharp turns when traveling at full speed. It is in the magical tiger’s nature to hunt, and it consumes its prey — principally gazelles — even though, as a magic animal, it doesn’t need this to survive.''

|}
''directed against giants used to receive twice the normal aura bonus. It is obvious to anyone who inspects it that the breach was intentional, and there is evidence of non-Solomonic magic used to enforce the gap in the wall’s protection. The sahirs of Mazandaran have showed little interest in repairing the breach since the Ghuzz are of no current threat to them.''

==Mount Damavand==

''This distinctive mountain dominates the whole of Tabaristan, and its snowcapped summit is visible for hundreds of miles across the plains of Persia. Damavand is the home of the Simurgh, and the evil tyrant Zahhak is believed to be imprisoned below the mountain. There are''
''seven settlements on the lower slopes of the mountain, each one with its own bayt al-hikma composed of mostly yatu-descended sahirs (see insert).''

==The Great Desert==

''Although referred to as a single desert — the Great Desert, or Al-Mafazah (“The Wilderness”) — Persia’s central dry lands are composed of two distinct regions, called Dasht-i Kavir in the north and Dasht-i Lut in the south. The Great Desert belongs to no province; it is a no''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Sealing the Breach==

''The characters are aware of a threat to Persia’s security, whether from the Mongols, from a Zahhak, or from an enemy yet to reveal itself. They learn the yatus of Damavand are the guardians of an initiation script that grants the Major Magical''
''Focus of “Enemies of Persia,” but it can only be performed in the aligned aura of the Wall of Gurgan. The characters must try to repair the breach in the wall, which might involve going head-to-head with whatever supernatural foe caused it.''

|}

==The Simurgh==

''The Simurgh is an immense bird that lives on Mount Damavand, although she makes expeditions to all corners of Persia and most of its inhabitants have seen her at some point. The people of Persia are oddly comforted by her presence, as she is a bringer of fertility as well as a symbol of national pride. The Simurgh is so old that she claims to have seen the destruction of the world three times over. During her exceptionally long life she has accumulated wisdom, and she is an authority on many subjects. In her most famous legend, the simurgh adopted the albino Zal (the father of Rostam), when he was abandoned by his father in the Alborz mountains. Zal learnt much from the Simurgh, and when he left her she gave him three of her feathers, with which he could summon her in need. The Simurgh is so large that normal weapons are as nothing to her. It requires magical weapons or spells to cause wounds. She may grant a worthy character one of her breast feathers using her External Vis Virtue; each one contains five pawns of vis. These feathers are Arcane Connections to the Simurgh, and can be used to summon her in times of great need by casting them into a fire. The Simurgh is not designed to be a player character.''

==The Simurgh==

''Faerie Might: 50 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str +15, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: +9 Virtues and Flaws: External Vis, Huge x8; Faerie Beast, Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Focus Power (Heart of the Whirlwind), Greater Immunity (Bludgeoning Weapons), Greater Immunity (Slashing Weapons), Greater Immunity (Piercing Weapons), Improved Characteristics x9, Improved Powers x6, Positive Folk Tales, Reputation as Confidence, Ritual Power (Grant Fertility) x3; Compassionate; Incognizant, Traditional Ward Personality Traits: Kind +6, Curious +3 Reputations: Bird of God 5 (Local) Combat: Claws: Init 0, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +19 Soak: +12 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–14), –3 (15–28), –5 (29–42), Incapacitated (43–56), Dead (57+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Arabia 5 (wars), Area Lore: Persia 8 (legendary figures), Area Lore: Transoxiana 5 (peoples), Artes Liberales 8 (Per''
''sian literature), Athletics 5 (flying), Awareness 4 (wrongdoers), Brawl 5 (claws), Philosophiae 8 (natural sciences), Survival 6 (mountains), Teaching 5 (Area Lore) Powers: Heart of the Whirlwind, 1–10 points, Init –(Might cost), Auram: This Focus Power allows the Simurgh to duplicate any non-ritual wind-related spell up to 50th level, at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the spell. Grant Fertility, 2 points, Init –22, Herbam: As the Simurgh flies over fields, she can use this power to create an effect similar to The Bountiful Feast, except that it affects an area ten times greater, and grants fertility to animals as well as plants. CrHe(An) 55 (Base 1, +3 Sight, +4 Year, +4 Bound, +2 Size, +1 Animal requisite) Ritual Power (55 levels, –9 Might cost, including 5 points from Improved Powers) Vis: 15 pawns of Animal, in breast feathers Appearance: The Simurgh is an enormous creature, large enough to carry off an elephant. She appears as an eagle with the head of a dog and claws of a lion. Her feathers are the color of highly polished copper, although her peacock-like tail is patterned with thirty different colors.''
''man’s-land where outlaws find shelter and there are no permanent villages except for the three oases. The roads that join towns on opposite sides of the Great Desert have water tanks and domes built every three to four leagues, and it is in the best interests of merchants to keep these tanks full. Both deserts are the haunt of jinn.''

==Dasht-i Kavir==

''This salt desert is found to the north of Persia’s central plateau. It is about 500 miles west to east, and about 200 miles north to south. Although the center of the desert receives virtually no rainfall, there are marshes, wadis, and steppe-like regions within the Dasht-i Kavir, and in the west a great salt lake. Unlike the Dasht-i Lut (see later), the Dasht-i Kavir is home to many birds, such as the ubiquitous sand grouse and the impressively large bustard, as well as the fabled Persian gazelle and the Hyrcanian tigers who hunt it.''
''Garmah''
''In the center of the Dasht-i Kavir, halfway between Isfahan and Tabas, is one of the three oases of the Great Des''
''ert. It consists of three hamlets camped around a small fort, some palm trees, and pasture where cattle can forage. The emir of the fort is charged with keeping the desert routes clear for merchants and other travelers.''
''Naband''
''The middle of the three oases of the Dasht-i Kavir, Naband sits between Kirman and Quhistan. Despite possessing a guard house, the domed water tanks of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Gazelle, Persian==

''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per +1, Pre –4, Com –4, Str –2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: –1 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Abilities, Long Winded, Well-Traveled; Compassionate Qualities: Defensive Fighter, Fast Runner, Herd Leader*, Keen Eyesight, Large Horns*, Herd Animal, Tireless * 	 Males only. Personality Traits: Gentle +3 Combat: Horns: Init +5, Attack +8, Defense +9, Damage +1''
''Dodge: Init +3, Attack n/a, Defense +10, Damage n/a Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3/–3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Area Lore: Dasht-i Kavir 4 (finding water), Athletics 4 (running), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 4 (dodging), Leadership 5 (gazelles)*, Survival 3 (semi-desert) * 	 Males only. Appearance: A small, delicate ante''
''lope with fawn hide; its flanks are marked with a dark stripe. The male has horns that it uses to defend itself.''
''The gazelle (Arabic ghazal), is called “dorcas” in the Western bestiaries. It has exceptionally sharp sight (+3 to visionrelated rolls) and is swift (+3 to running-related rolls). Only the male gazelle engages in combat; when forced to do so, he temporarily gains the Ferocity Virtue (grants 3 temporary Confidence Points). It is common in the Dasht-i Kavir of Persia.''

|}
''Naband are notorious hiding places for desert raiders.''

==Dasht-i Lut==

''The “emptiness desert” is approximately 300 miles along its northwest-to-southeast axis and 200 miles wide. The eastern part of the Dasht-i Lut is a low plateau of salt flats. The southeast is principally sandy. Unlike the Dasht-i Kavir, animal and plant life is much more scarce in the southern desert.''
''Gandom Beriyan''
''The central portion of the Dasht-i Lut is called Gandom Beriyan (“the toasted wheat”). It is a volcanic wasteland covered in black lava. It is the most treacherous of terrains, riddled with ravines and sinkholes, and blasted by a terrifically strong wind. The Gandom Beriyan is the hottest''
''place in Persia, and is completely devoid of animal or plant life. The Gandom Beriyan is, however, the home of the most malicious and evil of the jinn tribes, since an Infernal aura of 4 covers this area. The aura is corrupted with a Debauched aura of exhaustion (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 14) that prevents anyone from spending Confidence points while here. At the heart of the Gandom Beriyan is the entrance to a Tartaran regio with an Aura of 7 where the air itself burns, and the rock is molten. One of the most powerful corrupt jinn in Persia lurks in this regio.''
''Sanij''
''The southernmost oasis of the Great Desert, Sanij links Kirman with Seistan. The Balu tribesmen (see Kirman, earlier) know this valley oasis well, and are a constant threat to the sizable population that lives here.''

==Makran==

''This coastal province gets its name from mahi khoran, meaning “eaters of fish” in Parsi. It is sparsely populated, with most of the population concentrated in small fishing villages. The capital of the province is Fannazbur, but it is a poor town compared to the mighty cities of other provinces. The port of Tiz is a stopping point between Al-Sind in the east and Fars in the west. In the past, Makran was the battleground between the Arab caliphs and the kings of Al-Sind, and war elephants captured from the latter in battle were integrated into the Persian army. Bands of Ghuzz roam through Makran, having once been part of the invasion force that occupied Kirman.''

==The Gedrosian Desert==

''O Commander of the faithful! It’s a land where the plains are stony; Where water is scanty; Where the fruits are unsavory; Where men are known for treachery; Where plenty is unknown; Where virtue is held of little account; And where evil is dominant; A large army is small for there; And a small army is useless there; The land beyond it, is even worse…''
''— Messenger to Caliph Umar,  644 AD''
''Famous for its impassibility, the desert of Makran has fought at least three great ancient armies in the past: that of Cyrus the Great, the legions of Queen Semiramis, and finally the previously unconquered veterans of Alexander the Great. Known as Gedrosia to the ancients, the arid coastal region is inhabited by scattered fisherfolk. The region contains an incredibly large number of pagan ghosts, soldiers from the armies that have died since antiquity attempting to cross its arid expanse. As restless dead, these spirits are readily susceptible to the summons of necromancers and other summoners, although most are overwhelmed with the emotions of despair and memories of deprivation and are unable to provide much useful information about their past.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Why Go to Hell?==

''It is difficult to imagine why characters would ever come to Gandom Beriyan. However, there are a few reasons why they might. It is a place of Infernal pilgrimage, and a group of characters might chase a villain here before he can dedicate himself more fully to the path of Hell. Characters might accidentally stumble upon it''
''while fleeing from the Balu tribesman; if this occurs, they may find themselves being rescued by their pursuers, who are loathe to allow the land more victims than is necessary. Alternatively, as the hottest place on earth, the Gandom Beriyan might be important in a mystery initiation, or as a place to forge or destroy an item of power.''

|}

==The Rig-i Jinn==

''An area of sand dunes in the central Dasht-i Kavir is home to a tribe of jinn. The Rig-i Jinn is avoided by the traders who cross the desert, but the jinn, while mischievous, are not malicious. The Rig-i Jinn is found within a Faerie Aura of 3, but it is an extension of the glamour of the tribe, and moves when they do. Travelers encountering the jinn spy''
''a lush oasis where there should be none. They may encounter either hospitality or hostility depending on the mood of the jinn, but whether they are given food and drink or wounds, the oasis will have moved during the encounter, and when the faeries retreat, the characters could be tens of leagues away from where they started.''

==The Cradle & The Crescent Seistan==

''Seistan is a lowland country around and east of Lake Zarah, into which several major rivers drain. Like Quhistan and Ghur, Seistan is a dependency of Khurasan. In the Shahnameh, Seistan is called Zabulistan, famous as the home of Zal and his son Rostam, a man of both heroic proportions and heroic reputation. Seistan is home to many Ghuzz.''

==Dartal==

''The city of Dartal is located in the Zamin-Dawar, the “Land of Gates,” referring''
''to the passes into the mountains of Ghur. Dartal is heavily garrisoned with horse guards as protection against the warlike''
''Ghurs on the other side of the mountains. Flocks in the Zamin-Dawar is the source of much of Persia’s wool.''

==Rostam==

''Rostam is the legendary hero of the Persian race. He was a giant so big his mother struggled to give birth, and his father had to be taught to perform a caesarian section by the Simurgh. His constant companion was Rakhsh, a stallion big enough to bear his weight, fierce enough to kill a lion, and twice as swift as any other horse. The best-known tales of Rostam are Haft Khan-e Rostam and Rostam and Sohrab. In Haft Khan-e Rostam (Rostam’s Seven Quests), he journeys to rescue his king from the clutches of the demons of Mazandaran. The story ends with an epic battle between Rostam and the Div-e Sepid (“White Demon”). In Rostam and Sohrab, Rostam mistakenly kills his own son Sohrab in battle. Rostam was eventually killed through the treachery of the king he served. The legend of Rostam can be integrated into a saga in a number of ways, and some ideas are given later. So famous is it that any Persian character is likely to know the story of Rostam without an appropriate Ability roll, but precise details should be left to those with an appropriate Area Lore.''
''Mythic Blood: Rostam''
''A magus who hails from the line of Rostam has great physical prowess. He''
''can grant himself a +3 bonus to any one type of physical action that is a specialty of the Athletics, Ride, or Swim Abilities (e.g., climbing, running, riding at speed, diving, swimming long distances, etc.). Each time this power is used, a different physical action can be selected; the bonus lasts for two minutes, and the power cannot be used again until the previous bonus’s duration has expired (ReCo 25: base 10, +1 Diam, +2 flexibility). The Minor Magical Focus that accompanies this bloodline is Damaging Supernatural Creatures, and the Personality Flaw is Reckless (born mostly from stubbornness rather than heroism). It is likely that the character has either the Large or the Giant Blood Virtue.''
''Rostam’s Tiger Skin and Mace''
''Rostam’s Tiger Skin was worn over his armor, and he used it as a blanket when adventuring. It grants a Soak bonus of +5 that is cumulative with any other armor, and it has a Load of 1. It makes its possessor a very deep sleeper; the character can always recover Long Term Fatigue levels from a night’s sleep, even if it is on hard ground or unpleasantly cold. However, a Stamina roll''
''against an Ease Factor of 9 is required to rouse the character from sleep at all, and when woken the character has a –1 penalty to all actions until the sun rises. These effects can be thrown off by spending a Confidence point. The tiger skin is currently in the possession of the emir of Ghur. Rostam’s Mace is a two-handed mace (treat as a warhammer, ArM5, page 176) of superlative craftsmanship, and grants +3 to both Attack and Defense Totals. While held, the mace grants the wielder the effects of the Inspirational Virtue. It was taken to Turan (Transoxiana) by Rostam’s enemies after his death, and is currently in Samarkand, lying forgotten in one of the tombs in the Shahr-i-Zindah. It is said that reuniting the mace and the tiger skin with the body of Rostam will rouse the hero from his deathlike sleep — albeit temporarily — and cause him to stride afresh to Persia’s defense. Once the threat from the east becomes apparent (see Chapter 9: The Silk Road, Genghis Khan), Persian sahirs may well consider that the resurrection of their greatest hero is worth the trouble. A quest in the story of Rostam in Elysium (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 34) may grant clues to the location of the two items.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Idol of Zur==

''At the time of the Muslim conquest, a fabulous idol was taken as booty from the Zur Mountain near Dartal. It was made of solid gold, and had rubies for eyes. For the last few hundred years it has been owned by a succession of notables, but is now in the possession of a Zutt family (see Khuzistan, earlier). Whether through its own power or that''
''of the Zutt matriarch, the idol has the ability to move, and has been walking in the direction of Zur for the last few years. The characters encounter the Zutt family following the two-foot idol as it slowly makes its way to Zur. What will happen if it is permitted to return to its shrine is unknown, but could either be very good, or very, very bad.''

|}

==The Cradle & The Crescent Zaranj==

''The capital of Seistan is Zaranj, built on a branch of the great Helmund River; during flood time the city is perilously close to the shores of Lake Zarah as it swells dramatically in size. The city has an inner town surrounded by a wall, beyond which are the suburbs of the outer town. All the houses have running water thanks to above-ground channels, and they nearly all have cellars in which the inhabitants live in the oppressive heat of the summer. Within Zaranj is a fluted tower with no doors, stairs, or visible means of approach. On top of the tower are believed to be the bones of Rostam and his horse Rakhsh; their bodies were exposed to the sun and the vultures in the Zoroastrian manner, but their bones were never retrieved. Instead, the tower was sealed to serve as a monument. Around the city are salt marshes; these are inundated when the level of the lake rises every year. Beyond the marshes are''
''the desert sands. The Zaranj area is famous for its baad sad va bist rooz, the “120day wind” which blows north to south from the beginning of summer until the autumn. As it blows, it whips up a cloud of dust that clothes the whole region in dirt. Some believe the wind to be the home of jinn, but in fact it is a host of migrating air elementals (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 138) who cavort through the area once a year.''

==Khurasan==

''The largest province of Persia, Khurasan is named after khor, the sun, indicating that for many Persians, the sun rises over Khurasan. The region has long operated as an independent sultanate, but is now firmly part of the Empire of the Khwarazm-shah. Seistan, Quhistan, and Ghur are all districts of Khurasan rather than provinces in their own right.''

==Herat==

''Known as the Pearl of Khurasan, Herat is dominated by the remains of a citadel built by Alexander the Great. Like many of the cities in this area, Herat has changed hands many times in the last century, but it has nevertheless managed to develop a reputation for brassworking, which remains its chief export. Herat boasts a Zoroastrian fire temple called Sirishk just two leagues to the north atop a hill; unusually, this temple is still inhabited by a mobed and attracts worshipers from the nearby hills. The presence of Shamiran castle directly behind the temple may have contributed to its longevity. There is also a Nestorian church between Sirishk and Herat. To the south of the city is a lush land like a garden, profusely irrigated by numerous canals.''

==Karakum Desert==

''This “black sand” desert, also called the Desert of the Ghuzz, lies between the Caspian Sea to the west and the Aral Sea to the north. It is bounded on its northeastern border by the Oxus River which flows into the Aral Sea in Khwarazm.''

==Merv==

''An important oasis-city on the Silk Road, Merv has been named “the rendezvous of the great and the small” as a testament to its immense market, where, if accounts are true, it is possible to buy anything. Merv once claimed to be the largest city in the world, but in 1153 it was pillaged by the Ghuzz nomads, and since then has changed hands between the Khwarazmians, the Ghuzz, and the Ghurids, and has lost importance in Khurasan in favor of Nishapur. The last of the great Seljuks, Sultan Sanjar, is buried in Merv, under a great dome covered in blue tiles which is so high that it can be seen from a day’s march away. The libraries of Merv are greatly celebrated. The Great Mosque has two: the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Lake Zarah and Mount Khajeh==

''According to Nestorian Christianity, the three magi started their trip to Bethlehem from Lake Zarah. According to Mazdean legend, the lake is the keeper of Zoroaster’s seed; when the final renovation of the world is near three virgins will enter the lake and thence give birth to the saviors of man''
''kind. The waters of the lake have a Divine aura of 2. A flat-topped black hill called Mount Khajeh emerges from the waters of Lake Zarah. It bears an ancient fire temple and two abandoned forts collectively called Qal’a-e Sam — the “fort of Saum” — named after Rostam’s grandfather.''

==Story Seed: The Riddles==

''The Emir of Herat has made a strange announcement: “One must come to me, neither clothed nor naked, neither afoot nor on horse, and speak to me neither indoors nor out. If this person does not come, then Herat shall be destroyed!” The emir is under the control of a horrible ghoul, and the only way to free him is to answer its three riddles, and the emir reckons anyone clever enough to answer his own riddle is also smart''
''enough to answer those of the ghoul. Unfortunately, the ghoul also has a powerful Death Prophecy: it can only be killed by someone who is neither man nor beast; by someone who does it neither by day or by night; someone who offers it a present that is not a gift; neither by metal, nor rope, nor poison, nor stone, nor fire, nor water; and by someone who is neither fasting nor eating at the time.''

|}
''‘Aziziyah, with over 12,000 books; and the Kamaliyah library, with slightly fewer. Also stored here are the libraries of the colleges of Samanidiyah, ‘Umaydiyah, and Khatuniya. The Dumayriyah library is perhaps one of the smallest, but many of its 200 books are unique, and all are priceless. Of most interest to the Suhhar Sulayman, the library of the grand vizier''
''Nizam al-Mulk is part of the greater collection of Merv, and its House of Wisdom is the keeper of these great tomes of magic. Merv is home to a group of faeries who dwell in the market, running stalls next to the locals. These faeries help fulfill Merv’s reputation as a place where anything can be purchased. They gain vitality from''
''making exchanges with mortals, although they themselves do not supply any goods; they simply arrange a deal with a different mortal who can provide the desired goods. The result is an intricate web of favors and exchanges that might involve several tiers of mortal involvement. If the characters need a particularly exotic ingredient or item, then Merv is a''

==Rishtah==

''A disease that is particularly common in Khurasan thanks to the malign influence of Mars is rishtah, known as dracunculus (“little dragon”) in Latin. Worms form in the flesh of the limbs of the victim, and their hot venom causes severe inflammation and paralysis of the infected limb. Most often the legs are affected (causing the Lame Flaw until cured), but rishtah occasionally afflicts the arms or eyes (simulated with the Missing Hand or Missing Eye Flaws, respectively). Rishtah is difficult to contract, but also difficult to eliminate without medical assistance. It is a Serious Choleric disease of Severity 12; with a Stable Ease Factor of 4 and a Recovery Ease Factor of 18. The interval time is one month (for more details of diseases, see Art & Academe, page 45). A cure used by the Ghuzz is to bury the afflicted limb in hot sand from dawn until dusk. The worm then migrates from the limb and into the sand. The problem with this cure is that sometimes the rishtah survives in the sand and can grow to be five feet long (and some report even bigger ones). The Ghuzz call such a worm the olghoi khorkhoi, and report that it has been known to attack travelers and livestock with its fiery venom.''
''Olghoi Khorkhoi''
''Magic Might: 14 (Animal) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun –1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com –5, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Ways of the Desert; Improved Character''
''istics, Puissant Stealth, Tough; Gluttonous; Offensive to Animals, Poor Communication x2 Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Spit Fire), Major Virtue (Greater Immunity to Fire); Improved Abilities, Improved Might x 4, Improved Powers, Personal Power x2 (Fiery Touch); Monstrous Appearance; Minor Flaw (Restricted Power) Personality Traits: Hungry +6 Reputations: Death Worm 2 (Local) Combat: Fiery venom: Init +6*, Attack +11*, Defense +9*, Damage +30 (see Spit Fire power, later) Bludgeon: Init +5*, Attack +15*, Defense +10*, Damage +9 (and +10 fire damage, see Fiery Touch power, later) * Includes +3 for Ways of the Desert Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 4 (bludgeon), Desert Lore 2 (trails), Stealth 4+2 (under sand), Thrown Weapon 4 (fiery venom) Powers: Spit Fire, 1 point, Init +3, Ignem: The olghoi khorkhoi can spit fiery venom up to 15 paces. It must succeed in a Thrown Weapons Attack to do so, receiving a –2 penalty if the target is 6–10 paces away, and a –4 penalty if it is greater than 10 paces away. The fiery venom can only be parried if the target has a shield; otherwise it must be dodged with a Brawl Defense Total. If it hits, the venom in''
''flicts +30 damage. The creature cannot use this power between June and November (Restricted Power Flaw). CrIg 35 (Base 25, +2 Voice) Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost, +6 Init (from Fiery Touch power and Improved Powers)) Fiery Touch, 0 points, constant effect, Ignem: The fiery slime of the olghoi khorkhoi’s body burns those it touches and corrodes even metal armor. It inflicts +10 damage in addition to its bludgeoning attack, and any armor worn by its opponent loses one point of Protection even if the opponent soaked all damage. CrIg 30 (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 corrosive effect, +1 constant effect) Personal Power x2 (30 levels, –3 Might cost) Vis: 3 pawns of Ignem, in body Appearance: A worm, five feet long and one foot in diameter; the olghoi khorkhoi has no discernable head or tail. It is blood-red in color, with black mottling.''
''Found in the northern deserts of Persia and Transoxiana, the olghoi khorkhoi (“intestine worm”) is the mature form of the worms that cause the disease called rishtah. It can move about freely beneath the soil, and, while blind, is very sensitive to vibrations. If it succeeds in a Dexterity + Stealth roll greater than its victim’s Perception + Awareness roll, it can burst out of the ground next to him, gaining a +3 bonus to Attack on the first round of combat only. Initiative is rolled after this initial attack. Animals instinctively shy from the olghoi khorkhoi, and the reaction of horses is often the first sign that one is in the area.''
''good place to find it, but the price might be equally difficult to obtain. The answer is to visit a different faerie merchant to obtain that thing, hoping he will ask in return for something easier to get. The trick is knowing when to stop; you might end up needing to find a pebble with a white spot on it, but you are equally likely to be asked for the crown of the Sasanid king!''

==Mashhad==

''The city of Mashhad is perhaps best known for its luxurious shrine to Imam Reza, the eighth Shi’i imam. Reza was unexpectedly appointed by the Sunni Caliph Mamun to be his successor to the Abbasid caliphate. Following violent uprisings from the Sunni Muslims after hearing this announcement, Reza suddenly died before he could take his post, leading the Shi’a to''
''accuse Mamun of regretting his decision and solving the tense political situation with murder. Mashhad ar-Rizawi (“the place of the martyrdom of Reza”) was built on the site of his death, a tradition arose that a pilgrimage to Mashhad was worth 70,000 pilgrimages to Mecca, and the tomb of the imam became a holy place to which people flocked from all over Persia. The shrine has a Divine aura of 6.''

==Nishapur==

''On a strategic site controlling access to the east, Nishapur is named after the first Sassanian King, Shapur I, who made it his capitol for a brief time. Like most of Khurasan’s cities, Nishapur is dominated by its market. Its market streets have many hostels for the merchants, and almost every trade is represented here. Virtually all''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Save the Books==

''The invasion of the Ghuzz have taught the sahirs of Merv a lesson. An even bigger threat, in the shape of Genghis Khan, looms to the east, and Merv is home to thousands of books that can never be replaced. Unable to impress on the colleges and madrasas the importance of moving their books to a safer location, the sahirs are doing their best to copy as many as they can. This frantic attempt to preserve these irreplaceable texts can lead to any number of stories:''
''• A forgotten secret is uncovered''
''when a book is copied. Example: the location of Solomon’s Seal. • Theft of books to which clerics''
''deny access. Example: A daring raid into the Dumayriyah to liberate a tome of Isma’ili theology. • Transport of books to a safe place. Example: Some of Nizam al-Mulk’s most prominent tomes are moved further west, but a group of hostile magicians are aware of the opportunity to steal magical power for themselves.''

==The Footsteps of Imam Reza==

''All along the road between Nishapur and Mashhad are imprints on the rocky road which are locally believed to be the footprints of Imam Reza left as he made his fateful journey towards his death in Mashhad. It is said that a person who retraces every footstep and matches his own to them will be especially blessed in the next venture he undertakes. Howev''
''er, several of the footsteps are difficult to locate thanks to erosion and the actions of malicious jinn, who sometimes create false trails to lead petitioners astray. Completing the pilgrimage should involve a short story where the character’s faith is tested, but if completed successfully, the character gains the Intuition Virtue for the duration of his next venture.''

|}
''the turquoise and malachite that makes its way into the Middle East and Europe originates from mines near Nishapur.''
''Mihr''
''This unprepossessing village on the road to Nishapur is the home to one of the three Royal Fires of Zoroastrianism (see Mount Kavarvand, earlier, for more information on the Royal Fires). The ruins of a fire temple hide the entrance to a terrestrial Divine regio of aura 8. Within, the fire temple is intact, and inside it burns Adur Burzen-Mihr, the holy flame. This fire is specifically tied to farmers and craftsmen, just as the other two fires are tied to royalty and the priesthood. A tool left in the regio for a year will be purified by the holy flame, and henceforth grant a +4 bonus to any Craft or Profession Ability rolls made using it. This bonus lasts for a number of years equal to the Theology: Mazdean Ability of its owner. Only the owner of the tool can benefit from this bonus; should another even touch the tool, it loses its purity forever.''

==Quhistan==

''This “land of the mountains” is on the east of the Great Desert, bounded by Khurasan and Seistan. It is mostly a highland district with a corresponding cool climate, unlike the surrounding lands. While technically a dependency of Khurasan, Quhistan is part of the shadow Isma’ili state (see later), and they control the mountain fortresses of Turshiz, Qa’in, Birjand, Muminabad, Dara, Tabas and Nih.''

==Ghur==

''The people of Ghur are more closely related to the Baluchi and the people of Bactria and Badakhshan than they are to Persians. When the Shansabani (see insert) were driven from Ghur by the Khwarazm-shah, they unfortunately left their familiar demons and evil spirits behind. As''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==‘Umar Khayyam==

''This famous astronomer, poet, and sahir lived and taught in Nishapur until his death in 1123. He was trained in the Solomonic Arts at Nishapur’s House of Wisdom — a House he later went on to lead — and was an apprentice with both Hasan-i Sabbah and Nizam al-Mulk (see The Nizari Isma’ilis State, later). Nizam al-Mulk later provided him with a yearly pension to continue his studies. ‘Umar Khayyam wrote several influential books on mathematics, astronomy, and philosophy, but he is best known for his poetry.''
''Treatise on Demonstration of Problems of Algebra; written in Arabic; Summa on Artes Liberales (Level 5, Quality 9) Explanations of the Difficulties in the Postulates of Euclid; written in Arabic; Tractatus on Artes Liberales (Quality 10) Map of the Stars; written in Arabic; a Tractatus on Artes Liberales and a Tractatus on Solomonic Astrology (both Quality 11; includes a +1 from the beautiful illustrations of the original) Rubaiyat (collection of poems); written in Parsi; Summa on Philosophiae (Level 4, Quality 9)''

==The Cypress of Kishmar==

''In Kishmar near Turshiz, Zoroaster planted a cypress tree that had sprung from a branch he had brought from Paradise. It grew taller than any cypress ever had, a monument to the conversion of King Goshtasp to Zoroastrianism. It was uprooted in 861 by Caliph Mutawakkil and transported across Persia to be used for beams in his new palace, although the caliph was killed on the very day it reached its destination. There are several cypresses in''
''Quhistan that people claim have grown from seeds of the Kishmar tree, and in some cases, this is even true. The trees themselves radiate a Divine aura of 1 within five paces, and this aura is automatically tempered with the Calm virtue (see Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 38–39). Wood from the fallen branches of these trees fed into the sacred fire of a Zoroastrian temple increases the Divine aura of the temple by 1 point until the wood has been burnt. Wood chopped from the trees lack this property.''

==The Shansabani==

''The ruling family of Ghur have long been the Shansabani family, who claim Zahhak (see earlier) as their first ancestor. Sultan Ala’uddin Hussain, known as Jahansoz (“World Burner”), took Ghur from the Ghaznavids with the help of his demonic patrons, and he and his kin ruled over Ghur (and later Khurasan) with an iron fist. The Shansabani brooked no dissent or disaffection, and any political troublemakers simply disappeared mysteriously. The sultans of Ghur pursued an aggressive policy with their neighbors, but fortunately for Persia, their attentions were drawn to the fabled east rather than''
''west or south. They were divided into three branches: one ruled Bactria and Badakhshan from Bamiyan, another ruled Khurasan from Ghazni, and the main branch ruled Ghur from Firuzkuh. The last Shansabani sultan was Mohammed al-Ghuri, and he was a host to Zahhak. The Shansabani never conceded the province and have not been officially replaced, but they have all vanished. Some claim they have left Persia for Mythic Hind; others claim they have gone into hiding. One persistent rumor places the Shansabani heir at the court of Genghis Khan.''

|}
''a consequence, Ghur is a dangerous land, and many of its roads are haunted by malicious jinn. The towns are home to demons that walk in human form, and the Ghurs live in permanent suspicion of their neighbors, and even members of their own family should they start to act in an unusual manner. In some towns, the demons have taken over and rule openly, and the humans are powerless to stop them.''

==Bamiyan==

''A rich yet unfortified city in the east of the Ghur district, Bamiyan was recently one of the three capitals of the Shansabani. Its people are infidels and pay respect to two great idols high up on the mountainside. In a chamber supported on columns are two statues cut into the living rock; the locals call these Surkh and Khing (“Red” and “Gray,” respectively) and in the convoluted religion of Bamiyan they are twin aspects of a single god. The chamber in which these idols are found is richly decorated with carvings of birds, which have been covered in beaten gold. The two idols wander occasionally from their mountainside nook, bringing a Faerie aura with them as they come. When Khing walks, the people of Bamiyan hold feasts in its honor and bedeck it with flowers, but when Surkh fares abroad they hide within their houses and tremble.''

==Firuzkuh==

''The summer capital of the Ghurids, Firuzkuh means “turquoise mountain” in the local dialect due to the preponderance of that mineral, along with silver, in the surrounding hills. Firuzkuh was a retreat used by the Shansabani to keep their wicked activities hidden. Many of their political enemies were brought in secret to Firuzkuh, and drowned in the Hari river. Some claim that Firuzkuh was the center of devil-worship by the Shansabani. The palace is now empty, although the ghosts of the family’s victims still stalk its halls.''
''The Minaret''
''Located on a bend in the Hari River, the Minaret of Firuzkuh stands over 200 feet high, and is made of baked bricks. It is intricately decorated with glazed tiles bearing alternating bands of Qur’anic verses, geometric patterns, and calligraphy in multiple scripts. The verses from the Qur’an are taken from the surat Maryam, which relate to Mary, the mother of Jesus. The minaret has been under assault from the jinn of the Hari, and just recently the mosque to which the minaret was attached was destroyed in a flash flood. The minaret stands firm against their attacks, for it is powerfully warded against supernatural creatures. Sahirs have spend long years trying to figure out the means by which it is protected, but the minaret’s secrets have so far eluded them, other than to determine it is of Divine origin.''

==Ghazni==

''Formerly the capital of the mamluk of Ghur, but now abandoned by the Shansabani, Ghazni is famous for the Bahramshah mosque, which has minarets with a star-shaped cross-section, covered in geometric patterns. It is also well-known as a fabulously rich city, with ornate decorations on the lowliest of buildings, and ostentatious displays of gold and jewels from its inhabitants. Even the lowliest peasant has a gold necklace or bracelet, and higher status individuals drip with precious gems. These riches derive from the Wealth of Nations power of a False God (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 37) worshiped in secret by the Ghaznians.''

==Kabul==

''A city greatly frequented by merchants, who travel up the single fortified road to the market to trade with the exotic merchants who also come here from Mythic Hind. Of most interest to the Persians is indigo, which can command a rich price further west. However, a more sinister substance is also sought out: a sub''
''stance called myrobalan, a greasy speckled powder with a spicy nature akin to pepper or cardamom. Myrobalan is of great interest to physicians, since when properly prepared it can have potent curative properties. However, it can induce hallucinations that can be pleasurable (if the myrobalan is prepared with wine) or horrific (if prepared with water). Either sensation proves devastatingly addictive, and the markets of Kabul are littered by myrobalan addicts with their distinctive vacant expressions and dark-stained teeth. Kabul is ruled by a demon known only as “The Shadowed One,” who is somehow connected to the trade in myrobalan. None have seen him in person; his four lieutenants control the people on his behalf with their demongranted powers.''

==The Nizari Isma’ili State==

''The Isma’ili state is unlike others in the Mythic Middle East, in that it does not exist on maps, or in terms of military might, but rather lies in the hearts of men. It is a small state and widely scattered, nevertheless it is united under a strong devotion to its beliefs and goals, and has successfully resisted all threats aimed against it since its foundation over a hundred years ago. The Nizaris exercise political dominance in Persia, not through their meager territorial successes but through the point of a knife and through magical murder. Rather than meeting their enemies in battle they use subterfuge and deception to eliminate the leaders.''

==History==

''In the middle of the 11th century, three apprentice sahirs at the same House of Wisdom in Nishapur — Abu ‘Ali al-Tusi, Hasan-i Sabbah, and ‘Umar Khayyam — became the closest of friends. They swore a pact of brotherhood that if any one of them achieved fame and greatness, he''
''would share it with his friends. Abu ‘Ali alTusi was the rising star of the trio, and became vizier to the Seljuk Sultanate (where he gained the laqab of Nizam al-Mulk), and also grand vizier of the Suhhar Sulayman. As agreed, he offered positions to his friends; ‘Umar refused, asking instead for the means to continue his studies. Hasan accepted, but only to get close to the vizier. He had secretly become a member of the Isma’ili sect of Islam, and at their instigation, murdered his childhood friend. The Suhhar Sulayman was outraged, but true to the dying wishes of their grand vizier they held fire on their vengeance. Reconciliation between Hasan and the Suhhar Sulayman soon became impossible, and a schism within the Isma’ilis caused Prince Nizar — Hasan’s superior — to flee to the mountain fortress of Alamut in Persia. Hasan-i Sabbah continued to train his devoted followers in the arts of Solomonic magic, and, it is rumored, to command sentient spirits. The Nizari Isma’ilis became feared for their single-minded devotion, using magic to walk in secret, ensorcel minds, kill through poison, and travel vast distances in the blink of an eye. These tactics proved to be shockingly effective, and the Seljuk governor of Persia — despite help from the Suhhar Sulayman — proved incapable of mounting an effective response. The Nizaris were successful in taking key towns, but their strategy merely caused the populace to fear Isma’ilism, rather than embrace it. The Nizaris and the Suhhar Sulayman settled into a pattern of attempting to wipe each other out, but losses on both sides have been roughly equal. The Isma’ili sect have also established a branch in Syria, also based in mountain castles. The most famous member of this branch was Rashid al-Din Sinan (who died in 1193), who became well-known to the crusaders as “the Old Man of the Mountains.”''

==A Sect of Assassins==

''The sect is divided into seven ranks. The lowest ranks are those of the fida’i (devoted one) and lasiq (adherent), neither of which are properly initiated into the cult. These ranks perform the assassinations''
''that give the sect its notoriety and political pressure. The first initiated rank is the mustajib (respondent), who know some of the mysteries of the cult, but have none of the authority of the next three grades, da’i (“missionary”), hujja (“proof”) and dai’d-duat (“chief missionary”). The seventh and final rank is that of the imam-qa’im, the mystical teacher and spiritual leader of the sect. The Nizaris are organized into jaziras (“islands”), each representing a geographical territory, and under the control of a hujja. The da’is within each jazira are responsible for preaching the doctrines of the sect and spreading the Isma’ili faith. Each hujja reports directly to the dai’d-duat, who is the head of the sect and grand master of Alamut. Members of the sect commonly refer to each other as rafiq, “comrade.”''
''The Da’wa''
''The da’wa (mission) is the philosophy and organization of the Nizaris. A core doctrine is that of taqiyya, the concealment of one’s beliefs in the face of danger. Islam stresses the importance of truth and honesty, and yet taqiyya allows the Isma’ilis to deny their adherence to its precepts and live in secret among others. It permits them to use subterfuges and disguises without betraying their faith in God. Nizaris believe in the inner meaning, or batin, of the Qur’an, holding that it contains the very secrets of the universe if the layers of symbolism and numerical correspondence can be understood. They live an ascetic life according to the 51 epistles of Isma’ilism, called the Rasa’il. They be''
''lieve that shari’a law no longer applies to those who embrace the batin, and consequently, they reject the five Pillars of Islam (and hence receive no benefit from them; see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 106), dietary restrictions, the authority of the caliph, and so forth. According to the da’wa, ever since the creation of the world, human history has been characterized by alternating cycles, each begun by a “speaking” imam or prophet (the imam-qa’im), followed by a succession of “silent” imams. They hold that the imam represents God’s will in the world at all times, that he is constantly under divine guidance since the batin flows through him, and that his commands demand absolute obedience. Nizar was a member of the true line of silent imams, followed by Hasan-i Sabbah and the other dai’d-duats of Alamut. The imam-qai’m is an immortal being of unlimited wisdom, who has been, in the past, Elijah, Enoch, Khidr, and ‘Ali (the first Shi’i imam). It is believed that the current cycle is the qiyama (“resurrection”), and that the souls of those who follow the da’wa are already in heaven, whereas the souls of all other Muslims — plus those of a non-Muslim faith — have already been judged and suffer in hell.''

==The Nizaris Today==

''The current dai’d-duat of the Nizari Isma’ilis is Jalal al-Din Hasan, who succeeded in 1210. During his rule, Jalal al-Din has done the unthinkable — publicly con''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==An Assassin by Another Name==

''In Syria, the Nizari Isma’ilis have been slandered with the name of “hashishiyyin” (smokers of hashish); this sobriquet was adopted by the Crusaders as “assassin,” and is the origin of the modern term. The rigidly ascetic Nizaris do not use drugs of any kind, and in any case they would likely interfere with the concentration and planning required for executing their public murders. The name stems instead from the contempt''
''felt for the wild beliefs and extravagant behavior displayed by the Isma’ilis, and in any case is not used to describe the main Persian sect. In Persia, the Isma’ilis are principally known as the Batiniyya (men of the batin), suggesting that they place too much emphasis on the inner meaning of the Qur’an; or the Malahida (heretics), referring to their rejection of shari’a law.''

==New Nizari Virtues==

''New Virtue: Fida’i''
''Social Status, Minor The character is an assassin of the Nizari Isma’ilis. A fida’i is a devout member of the sect who is prepared to die on its orders, and as such he should consider taking either the Oath of Fealty or Dutybound Flaw. When not on a mission, a fida’i wears white, with a red girdle, cap, or boots. He has been trained in precise placement of daggers and blades, as well as disguise. Fida’i may take Martial Abilities at character creation. He can expect to become a lasiq if he proves his loyalty to the sect.''
''New Virtue: Lasiq''
''Social Status, Major The character is an experienced assassin of the Nizari Isma’ilis, having suc''
''cessfully completed seven murders at the orders of his grand master, and commands a small band of up to six fida’is. Lasiq may take Martial Abilities at character creation.''
''New Virtue: Mustajib''
''Social Status, Free This Virtue is the Nizari equivalent of the Sahir Virtue. The character has been initiated into the magical traditions of the Nizaris, and must take Solomonic Sihr as his Summoning Power. If a mustajib has The Gift, he has been Opened to all of the Solomonic Arts; if he is unGifted, then the Solomonic Arts must be bought as Virtues or else be Initiated after character creation. UnGifted characters should also take the Necessary Condition and Prohibition Flaws to represent Initiation by the Niz''
''aris. Mustajib may take Academic and Arcane Abilities at character creation. Most mustajibs started their careers as fida’is, and typically have this Virtue (or the Lasiq Virtue) to represent their social status among non-magical folk. However, if he joined the sect later in life he may choose different Social Status Virtue.''
''New Virtue: Trained Assassin''
''General, Minor This Virtue is only available to characters with one of the three Social Status Virtues of the Nizaris. He has completed several missions on behalf of his masters, giving him 50 additional experience points that may be spent on any Martial Abilities as well as Athletics, Guile, or Stealth.''

==Initiation Scripts of the Nizaris==

''Two example Initiation Scripts are given here. Nizaris are almost always Initiated into Solomonic Storytelling in preference to other Solomonic Arts.''
''Initiation of Solomonic Sihr and the Rank of Mustajib''
''Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +18 Details: This rite takes place at Alamut during Ramadan (+3). The Initiate is taken to the garden and magically transported to the Magic Realm by his mystagogue (using Solomonic Travel). He finds himself in an insula (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 19) of intense paradise, populated with beautiful maidens to cater to his every need. He must quest to find himself a companion spirit through which he will work his magic (+3), and in the process of this quest his magic is bound very closely to a weapon that represents that spirit, imposing the Neces''
''sary Condition (brandishing a weapon) onto all of the character’s magic (+9). When he returns to the mundane world with the vision of paradise still filling his head, he is told that the master of Alamut can return him to paradise at any time, and he is promised a place in paradise permanently if he dies in his service. In return he swears a magically-enforced oath to never betray the secrets of the sect, lest he be damned to eternal fire (the Prohibition Flaw, +3). The ritual that Opens the Arts of a Gifted Nizari has similar elements to this Initiation, although it does not impose any Flaws.''
''Initiation of Solomonic Storytelling''
''Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +15 Details: The initiate is asked to surrender all contact with the outside world''
''and devote himself to the sect. He must donate all his possessions and land to the Nizaris, and cut off all ties with family and friends. Even his name is changed to a cultic name (+2). The initiatory rite takes place at Alamut when Sirius rises (+3); the initiate is taken once more to the paradise insula within the Magic Realm. He must quest on at least three different insulae (thus navigating the Void that separates them), and obtain three objects that resonate with three different emotions (+6). Upon returning to the mundane world, he must spend a season composing an encoded poem which tells of his journey while appearing to be about an entirely different subject, demonstrating his mastery of the batin (+1). After this second visit to paradise, the mustajib discovers that any use of his magic briefly transports him mentally back there (simulated by the Disorientating Magic Flaw, +3).''

|}
''verted the sect to Sunni Islam. The Nizaris recognize this as an exercise in taqiyya and have obeyed without question. Jalal al-Din expects to garner support from the enemies of the Khwarazm-shah, namely the Caliph of Baghdad in the west and Genghis Khan in the east. He has already made alliances with the rulers of Arran and Azerbaijan, and married the four daughters of the emir of Gilan. Since he has ushered in a new era of outward law, many of Isma’ilis believe Jalal al-Din to be the imam-qa’im. Relations with the Suhhar Sulayman are hostile; the Suhhar still holds the Nizaris as traitors and refuses to treat with them. Many sahirs attempt to slay or drive off known Nizaris, most often using the fear and hatred of the populace against them. The Nizaris, on the other hand, have no specific enmity towards the Suhhar Sulayman, but treat them like any other powerful individual — if they stand in the way of the imam’s coming, then they die. In addition to Daylam, Quhistan, and Qumis (mentioned earlier), the Nizaris have significant hidden communities in the south of the Zagros Mountains in Fars (including the fortress of Shardiz), and scattered cells in most of the important''
''cities in the Mythic Middle East. The Syrian Assassins have their base at Masyaf in the Holy Land, with a further stronghold near Aleppo.''
''Alamut''
''Alamut was built by one of the kings of Daylam; he was out hunting one day and his eagle alighted on a rock. He immediately saw the strategic potential of the site, and built a castle there that he called aluh-amut, which in the Daylami language means “the eagle’s lesson.” Since then, Alamut has become more than just a castle; it is a fortified village in Rudbar, the valley of the Shahrud. Alamut is physically an immense, towering rock, with unapproachable slopes on all sides, and yet a flat top on which extensive buildings have been constructed. It has vast storerooms hollowed out from the very bedrock, and possesses its own spring. A notable feature amid the dust and rock is a luxurious garden; this is the source of the fortress’s Magic aura of 3, and it contains a link to the Magic Realm important in the initiatory rituals of the Nizaris (see later).''

==Nizari Characters==

''The rank of fida’i is suitable for grog and companion characters, who should take the Dutybound Flaw (or, for companion characters, the Oath of Fealty Flaw) to represent the vows of obedience taken to the grand master of the sect. If a fida’i proves himself to be capable, he can expect to be elevated to the rank of lasiq, and command a squad of men. Only a fraction of the Nizaris become Initiated into the magical traditions of the sect, and become mustajibs. The rank of da’i (which is not represented by a Social Status Virtue) is awarded to mustajibs who have Initiated at least two Solomonic Arts other than Solomonic Sihr; all Gifted mustajibs are automatically da’is. A da’i is expected to lead a community of Isma’ilis and to convert others to the cause. The ranks of hujja and dai’d-duat are both available to player characters through roleplaying. Apart from those things noted in the inserts nearby, mustajibs (and da’is) should be created using the rules for sahirs (see Chapter 3: Order of Suleiman).''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
