''The fabled route to distant Serica, the land of silk, is beginning to coalesce again at the beginning of the 13th century, as the Mongol invasion paradoxically creates a degree of safety for traveling merchants and missionaries by controlling the almost incessant brigandage of the area. Later to become known as the Silk Road, the route has existed throughout antiquity in various states of accessibility. It consists of not one road but many — a network of caravan stages, marked by resting places known as caravanserais, that branches and reforms through the deserts, steppes and mountains as the caravans travel''
''northeastward from Baghdad. Through Khurasan and into the Eastern Provinces of Transoxiana, Badakhshan, and Wakhan, the trade routes delve past the borders of Mythic Middle East and even into the supernatural Realms beyond.''

==Transoxiana==

''Beyond the great river known to the ancients as the Oxus lay the borderlands of Mawara’n-nahr, “the Lands Beyond the''
''River.” Known first as Turan to the Persians, then later as Transoxiana to the Greeks and Romans, these lands have always been at the edge of civilization. Nominally ruled by the Khwarazmshah, the region includes the ancient oases of Farghana, Sogdia and Bactria, the estuarine province of Khwarazm, and the jinn-infested desert of Kyzylkum (“red desert”) — all bordered by the endless northeastern steppes and the harsh eastern mountain arc of the Pamir and Paromisidae. Invaded by the triumphant Arabs under Qutayba in the seventh century, Transoxiana was washed over by the Islamic empire until its wave of conquest broke on the shores of the vast inland steppe. Islam itself changed and adapted as it flowed into the steppe — orthodox Sunni practices found little hold, but the ecstatic brand of Sufi mysticism, with similarities to the shamanism of the Turkish nomads and a focus on highly charismatic holy men, was more successful. Many of the inhabitants profess Islam but cling to many pagan beliefs and folk traditions linked to the local Faerie and Magic spirits. The region has a history of loose pastoralist domination and local dynasties centered on riverine oases. No single authority has ruled the borderlands between the pastoralist nomads and the urban settlers since the ancient Turk Empire, although this is about to change as a new nomad empire descends from the east.''

==The Great Rivers==

''Transoxiana is bordered and defined by the two great rivers that flow through it — a liminal zone of cultural transition and trade, bordering the deserts''
''south of the Aral Sea and forming a barrier between wild nomad steppes to the north beyond the Jaxartes and the urban settlements of the south across the Oxus. A third lesser river, the Zeravshan (“the golden”), courses past the great cities of Samarkand and Bukhara only to choke into dust in the deserts before reaching one of the inland seas.''
''The Oxus''
''Mistakenly associated with the Hebrew Gihon, one of the four rivers that flows into Eden, the great waterway known as the Jahyun to the Arabs, the Amu Darya to the Turks, and the Oxus to the classical Greeks has always been considered one of the frontiers of the classical world. Locals of the high Pamir village of Qarabolaq claim it is birthed from the eerie Lake Zorkul nearby, but the classic geographers claim it begins its journey as it melts from a great ice cave beneath a glacier high up in the fabled Wakhan corridor. The original bed of the Oxus runs westward across the desert for six days march before reaching the shores of the distant Bahr Khazar (Caspian Sea) near the fishing town of Khalkhal. This former stretch of the river is devoid of magical spirits as they have all been bound into the structures and canals near Gurganj, but nevertheless retains a fading Magic aura of 2 along its dusty length. On cool nights, when the constellation of Aquarius is ascending, small clear pools of water can be found along the dry bed and can be harvested for Aquam vis.''
''The Jaxartes''
''Also known as the Sayhun or the Nahr-ash-Shash (“the river of Shash”), the Jaxartes forms from numerous mountain streams in the valley of Farghana, flowing through this province past the homeland deserts of the Ghuzz Turks via many channels into the northeastern part of the Buhayrah Khwarazm (Aral Sea). More so than its greater sibling to the south, the Jaxartes forms the true border between Iran and Turan, Persian and Turk, civilized agrarian and barbaric nomad.''
''The Sea of Khazar''
''The Bahr Khazar (Khazar or Caspian Sea) forms the northwestern boundary of Transoxiana. Beyond its expanse to the northwest once ruled the mythical Khazars, a powerful kingdom of nomads that converted to Judaism in the ninth and tenth centuries. This lost kingdom held back the Islamic expansion in the ninth century, only to fade back into the steppes from where it arose. Stories about their far realm continue filter all the way back into Mythic Europe, even to the''
''court of the popes. Although the Khazars have long since dispersed, the stories they engendered have spawned Faerie jinn that imitate their culture and kingdom. Those seeking the far northwestern shores of the sea past the Caucasus range, either by land or by water may encounter the secret isle of the Amazons (see Rival Magic for details). Brave travelers that push further find themselves in the magical lands of the jinn and beyond, having delved into those outer parts of Jinnistan that lie in either the Faerie or Magic Realms.''

==Story Seeds for The Great Rivers==

''A River Runs Through It''
''In winter, both the lower Oxus and the Jaxartes freeze over, allowing merchant caravans (and lately nomad armies) to cross with ease. The cause of this phenomenon is an ongoing struggle between the Faerie and Magic jinn that claim dominance of the lands on either side of the great rivers. In winter, the local Faerie spirits hold sway and the rivers freeze over, allowing nomads and their stories to cross between the steppe and settled lands, engendering conflict and vitality for the faeries to feed off. In summer, the ancient Magic spirits resume their dominance, allowing the waters to flow in their natural course and providing irrigation to the towns of their lower reaches.''
''Spirits of the Oxus Delta''
''Once a single mighty Magic Spirit, the clash of cultures along its lower banks has split the great spirit into a multitude of lesser entities as the river splits into numerous waterways and canals as it approaches the Aral Sea. Just short of this lake, the river is prevented from following its natural course by the great dykes of Gurganj, solid structures magically reinforced with captive jinn enslaved by the ancient sahirs of pre-Islamic times. The sequence of dams that disrupt the natural course of the river''
''allow irrigation of the rich province via many canals. Faerie, Infernal, and Magic (perhaps even Divine) lesser river spirits can be found along the river’s fragmented lower course, bound to its network of canals. Each spirit has its own unique name and cultural allegiance, although shifting alliances and swirling courts appear to collect from time to time. One such lesser captive Magic spirit, Ahurani or Anahit, represents the vestige of a pre-Zoroastrian fertility spirit, or yazata, adopted by the Sogdians, now yoked to supply the harvests of the Khwarazmshah. The greater Faerie nobles known locally as Old Jahyun and the Son of the Oxus are known to be the most capricious and most powerful, although a clever magus or sahir may be able to bargain with one at the expense of the other.''
''The Jaxartes River Spirit''
''Unlike the Oxus, the Jaxartes is dominated by a single Faerie entity that involves itself in stories of nomad incursions. The ancient Jaxartes spirit feeds on the fear of the urban oasis dwellers of the rapacious barbarians of the steppes, orchestrating an invasion every few centuries by summoning a Faerie host with a new name through the gateway to Arcadia that lies just outside of Talas. See “The Endless Nomad Cycle” Story Seed later.''
''The Aral Sea''
''Also known as the Lake of Khwarazm, this shallow and reedy lake is known for its excellent fishing in the southern part, although it is not considered navigable. In the southeastern corner of the sea lies a small island, called Jabal Jaghra''
''haz, that has a Magic Aura of 4. The water surrounding the island is perpetually frozen — local folk swear it must be the dwelling of powerful water jinn, the marid Jaghrahaz, but none are brave enough to venture across the frozen water to investigate the small hill that the island contains.''
''Kyzylkum Desert''
''The “red sands” lie between the two great rivers, forming the southeastern border of the estuarine province of Khwarazm and the northwestern border of Sogdiana. Despite tracts of crescent-shaped dunes, much wildlife can be found at its less arid''

==Genghis Khan and the Fall of Transoxiana==

''“O people, know that you have committed great sins, and that the great ones among you have committed these sins. If you ask me what proof I have of these words, I say it is because I am the punishment of God. If you had not committed great sins, God would not have sent a punishment like me upon you.”''
''— Temujin (Genghis Khan), as reported by Juvaini in History of the World Conqueror''
''At the beginning of a canonical Ars Magica saga set at the start of 1220, Genghis Khan and a large detachment of his horde are encamped outside the besieged town of Bukhara. If history follows its course, the town will have fallen within two weeks, the surviving defenders put to death without exception. All the civilians are ordered from the town; artisans are sent as slaves to Mongolia, young men forced to follow the army, and the women suffered far worse fates. A great fire breaks out and almost entirely destroys the mostly wooden buildings and by the end of winter, there is little but smoking ruins left standing. Due to the atrocities committed in Bukhara, the whole area becomes overlaid by a Malevolent Infernal aura of strength 3 (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 15) apart from the small area surrounding the Kalyan minaret. Many of the slain are not given proper burial, allowing their anguished ghosts to roam free throughout the ruins or vulnerable to summoning by necromantic magic. Throughout 1220, the Mongol armies, reinforced by Turkish recruits and deserters, ravage along the Jaxartes all the way to Khojend in Farghana, destroying the oasis towns of Signak,''
''Jand, Yanikent and Banakat. By the end of autumn 1220, when the horde settles down along the Vaksh River, the Khan’s armies have captured the twin capitals of the shah’s realm, Samarkand and Gurganj, and chased the Sultan himself across Khurasan to his death on the shore of the Caspian Sea. Within another year, the Mongol juggernaut has penetrated into Persia, sacked Balkh, Merv, Nishapur, and Herat, and routed the Sultan’s son Jalal al-Din across the Indus, while the two great generals, Jebe and Subadei, have commenced their great raid into Russia. Abandoned and never resettled, the original sites of the sacked cities may become home to similar Infernal auras, tarnished with the Personality Trait of Wrath. Such places attract lesser demons of destruction, dark faeries, ghul, and malevolent jinn to the Mongol wake and add to the human misery.''
''Saga Seeds: Of Mongols and Magi ...''
''Exactly how these events affect your Saga depends on the role the main characters intend to play within the region. For natives of Transoxiana, the Mongol invasion is devastating, resulting in a large loss of life and culture, but it can be used as a stimulus for introducing existing Hermetic characters to the Mythic Middle East. The massive tumult in the area may provide rich backgrounds for the introduction of wandering Mythic Middle Eastern companion characters into Western-based Sagas, similar to the diaspora following the fall of Constantinople to the Latins in 1204. Con''
''ventional Hermetic characters or their companions traveling in the area may become caught up in one of the sieges or escape from the sacking of a town and be forced to cooperate with native characters in order to escape back to Christendom, bearing news of the “hurricane from the east” to the disbelieving Order. Trianoma magi seeking to assess the Order of Suleiman may become embroiled in the fight against the Mongol juggernaut. Tytalan magi may be attracted to the conflict engendered, whereas House Tremere’s reconnaissance may lead them to become involved in assessing the degree of threat posed by the invaders. Both Jerbiton magi and Redcaps may have links through trade or travel and be drawn into stories involving their mundane connections or family. Necromancers within the Order may be attracted to the sites of the massacres at Otrar, Bukhara, and other Transoxanian cities and be willing to risk their souls amidst the Infernal ruins. A saga set primarily in the Mythic Middle East could be focused on rebuilding amidst the ruins of Khwarazmshah’s state under the foreign yoke of the Mongol Empire. The breakdown of mundane power structures and the scattering of local wizards could tempt Seekers and young Hermetic magi to mount expeditions to explore and perhaps settle in covenants within the fractured polities of the former lands of Alexander’s great empire. Stories may run with the usual Spring covenant founding aim but could involve the complexities of dealing with both the foreign mundane civilians and unusual magical natives of the area while interacting with the Mongol aristocracy and the accompanying bureaucracy.''
''eastern edge: gazelles, golden eagles, deer and koulan (onagers or wild asses). The northern reaches are the domain of giant lizards known as waral or the varanus —remarkably intelligent, their leaders are able to walk on their hind legs and converse in the local language but appear to have only rudimentary magic.''

==Bactria==

''Once known as Bactriana and more recently referred to as Tokharistan, the lands cradled by the Oxus and the Caucasus Indicus have long been a melting pot of culture and a cauldron of rebellion. Although annexed as a satrapy by Cyrus the Great, the region resisted the attempts of Alexander to incorporate it into his empire, only to form the center of first the Seleucid Empire and then an independent Greco-Bactrian kingdom. Despite being conquered by successive waves of nomads — the Sakas, the Kushans, the Sassanids, the Hepthaelites, and most recently the Arab forces — the hinterland of the region retains many of its classical monuments and links to the Faerie powers of Greek myth. Outside of the Theban Tribunal, it contains more classical Greek structures than anywhere else in the Mythic Middle East.''
''Balkh''
''For a long time, the large and ancient city of Balkh was the home of Zoroastrianism, since Zoroaster was born here and is buried within its walls. At the time of the Islamic invasion of Persia, Balkh provided a refuge to the Persian emperor Yezdgird, but in the current era it has thoroughly embraced Islam. The Greek name for Balkh was Bactra, and gave its name to the whole region of Bactria.''
''The Ruins at Ai Khanoum''
''Once an important center for Hellenism in the centuries before Christ, these eastern ruins lie at the confluence of the Jahyun and its tributary, the Nahr Dir''
''gham. Originally founded by Alexander the Great as Alexandria on the Oxus, it was later developed into the important Seleucid city of Eucratidia. Partial remains of several structures, including a gymnasium, a theater almost the size of the great structure at Epidauros, and several temples to pagan Greek gods, most notably Zeus and Dionysius, give the area an overall Magic aura of 4. The gymnasium is the best preserved building and lies within a level 7 Magic aura, centered upon a pillar engraved with a dedication to both Hermes and Hercules.''
''Sogdian Rock''
''This landmark marks the site of an ancient battle between the forces of Alex''
''ander and the rebellious satrap of Sogdia, Oxyartes of Balkh, father of the legendary beauty Roxane. It can only be accessed by little-known mountain paths and its exact location is known to only a handful of local tribesmen. The ancient spirits of the 30 men who fell during the ascent continue to haunt the site but bear no love for the successors of their Persian adversaries.''

==Sogdiana==

''Since ancient times a land of merchants and middlemen, Sogdiana remains a place of crossroads and caravans. The major trails from Baghdad cut through the province, passing through Samarkand and on to the Turkish lands beyond. Once''

==Bactria Story Seeds==

''Naw Bahar''
''A fire temple by the name of Naw Bahar in one of Balkh’s suburbs was built in the Sassanian days as a rival to the Ka’ba of Mecca. Its walls are adorned with precious stones, and brocaded curtains are hung everywhere. The walls and floor emit a sweet smell of perfume from centuries of application of unguents. The main building is surmounted by a great cupola 375 feet high, and around this central building there are 360 chambers to host the mobeds. Although no longer active as a temple it retains a Divine aura of 5. Naw Bahar remains unmolested by time or treasure seekers, and its floors are clean of detritus and vermin. Those intrepid enough to go inside — and few are — report that a fire burns at the center of the temple, although no one is ever seen within. The inside of the temple leads to a Terrestrial Divine regio that shelters a small Zoroastrian community within the higher levels.''
''Altars of Alexander''
''Of further interest to Hermetic Seekers, an altar of Alexander is hid''
''den within one of the temples at the outskirts of the city. As detailed in Ancient Magic, page 125, the altars of Alexander have powerful mystical connections to each other, and link to over 70 different sites. A magus, casting a spell using the Arcane Connection Range while touching such an altar, is considered to have an Arcane Connection with a +4 Penetration multiplier to the other shrines, cities, or temples so connected. This site may either provide an entry point into the Mythic Middle East for Seekers investigating other sites or a potential lifeline back to Europe for Hermetic colonists deep within enemy territory.''
''A Covenant on the Rock?''
''Sogdian Rock is a superb natural fortress, riddled with natural caves and carved cisterns capable of holding large reserves of food and water in case of siege. The site is enveloped by a Magic aura of strength 3, although higher auras may exist within the deeper caves. Although isolated, it is a potential base for Hermetic magi wishing to explore the mysteries of the Mythic Middle East.''
''the heartland of the Manichean heresy, it remains a mixture of mercantile religious communities, counting Sunni Muslims, Nestorian Christians, and Jews among its transient population.''
''Samarkand''
''“Everything I have heard about Marakanda is true, except that it is more beautiful than I ever imagined.”''
''— Alexander the Great''
''Known as Marakanda to the Greeks, the ancient capital of Sogdia on the upper Zeravshan River has been conquered by various conquerors throughout histo''
''ry but remains one of the most populous and cosmopolitan cities of the region. It is the eastern capital of the Khwarazmshah’s empire. To the east of the old city of Marakanda lies Shahr-i-Zindah (“tomb of the living king”), a street of tombs named after the central shrine, the grave of Qusam ibn-Abbas. The remainder of the tombs are entrances to a city of dark Faerie jinn and ghul, giving the street a malevolent Faerie aura of 5 during the day alternating with an equivalent Infernal aura during the night. The shrine forms a forlorn sanctuary amid the darkness, retaining a small Divine aura of strength 2. If your Saga follows history, in spring of 1220 the armies of Genghis Khan be''
''siege the town. Despite recent fortification, the city falls to the nomad hordes after only five days. The surrendering garrison is executed in batches with ruthless efficiency. The population are moved out of the city to facilitate the sacking and divided up like the unfortunates of Bukhara (see the insert “Genghis Khan and the Fall of Transoxiana” earlier).''
''Bukhara''
''A trading center since ancient times, Bukhara lies on the Zeravshan River downstream of Samarkand in the middle of the Kyzylkum Desert. In the ninth and tenth centuries it was the center of''

==Ship of the Desert==

''The two-humped Bactrian camel predominates throughout the wider Mythic Middle East and differs slightly from its cousin, the single humped dromedary, which is more common in North Africa, Egypt, Arabia and the Levant (see Chapter 6: Mythic Arabia for details on dromedaries). Wild camels are rare, although wild Bactrian camels can be found in the far eastern reaches.''
''Bactrian Camel''
''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per –1, Pre –4, Com –5, Str +3, Sta +4, Dex –1, Qik –2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Long-Winded; Feral Scent Qualities: Hardy, Herd Animal Reputations: Ill-tempered beast +3 (throughout Mythic Middle East) Combat: Kick (hooves): Init +0, Attack +3, Defense +2, Damage +4 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3/–3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28),''
''Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (running), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 2 (dodging), Survival 5 (home terrain). Powers: Smell Water, 0 points, Init 0: All camels can smell drinkable water for a distance up to two miles. Survive Without Water, 0 points, Init 0: All camels can survive without water for up to two weeks. Appearance: These statistics are for a typical Bactrian riding camel. Known for their stubbornness, resilience and pungent odor, these otherwise docile animals can become very aggressive during mating season. Their ability to last without water for weeks on end and locate buried water makes them the preferred beast of burden for desert crossings.''
''Camels have been bred, like horses, to have differing traits: Bactrian Pack Camel: Add the Domesticated Quality and gain the Great Bearer Minor Heroic Virtue (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 105), which allows the camel to carry twice as much on its back before becoming weighed down and to travel twice as far before becoming fatigued by a journey. Drop''
''the Survival Ability. Most Bactrian camels found in the great caravans are pack camels. Wild Bactrian Camel: Add the Wilderness Sense Virtue and the Greater Immunity: Thirst Virtue. Reduce Communication to –6. Add Defensive Fighter (and therefore an extra Fatigue level), Fast Runner and Herd Animal Qualities. Increase Brawl (dodging) to 4 and add Wilderness Sense (sense sandstorms) 3. A wild Bactrian camel’s kick has the following statistics: Init +0 Attack +5 Defense +3 Damage +4. War Camel (variant): Add the Aggressive and Pack Animal Qualities and the Ferocity (when ridden in battle) Virtue. Increase Brawl (hooves) to 5. A war camel’s kick has the following modifications to the basic combat statistics given for either the Bactrian camel or a dromedary camel: Init +0 Attack +4 Defense +3 Damage +0. It can be trained to attack as part of a Trained Group with its rider. Rare Bjornaer magi who are born in the southeastern peripheries of Mythic Europe have been noted with a dromedary or even wild Bactrian camel Heartbeast. Camels are considered to have a melancholic humor with a choleric aspect.''
''the Samanid state and was considered the heart of Islamic culture and religious thought, producing such notables from its hinterland as the Persian poets Firdausi and Ridauki. Ibn Sina used the famous library here and the book bazaars were said by al-Biruni to be beyond compare. In the 13th century, Bukhara is home to a large Jewish community — one of the largest non-Hebrew speaking branches of the Diaspora. The half-buried tomb of Isma’il Samanid (r. 893-907), the founder of the Samanid dynasty, lies just outside the town. Long forgotten by the debauched inhabitants, if your saga follows history, this building will escape the Mongol devastation as the dust of disuse hides it from the horde. A circle in nested squares, a Zoroastrian symbol, is carved above the main door. The building retains a Magic aura of 3 during the night that alternates with a similar strength Divine aura during the day, due to its former use by Zoroastrian mobeds. The Mongols sack Bukhara at the beginning of 1220 but several sites survive. (See the earlier sidebar on “Genghis Khan and the Fall of Transoxiana” for further details.) The Kalyan minaret is one of the few structures of Bukhara still standing after the Mongol invasion of Transoxiana, being spared by Genghis Khan himself. A folk story tells of how the great nomad stopped to look at the minaret and a gust of wind knocked his hat from his head. He stooped to pick up his hat and then said: “This minaret is the first thing I have ever bowed to.” He spared the minaret but not the sheikhs, slaying 200 holy men and having their heads thrown down the nearby well before rising to the pulpit and uttering his famous speech. From the top minaret’s rotunda with 16 arched fenestrations, the muezzin summoned the city’s faithful to prayer or warriors kept lookout for enemies. An ornamental frieze of diagonal brickwork covered with Arabic inscriptions encircles the tower’s base. The minaret was once part of the larger Po-i-Kalyan mosque complex — the immediate ruins retain a Divine aura of 5 amid the Infernal aura that comes to cover most of the city ruins after the sacking.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Caravans==

''An immense variety of goods passes through Transoxiana in the 13th century laden on the packs of asses, camels, horses, or mules, depending on the terrain. Huge caravans return from the northern lands, carrying goods from the steppes of the Volga Bulghars or the northern forests, pass through the towns of Merv, Baghdad, Samarkand, or Khojend, and thence further west to Europe via Venetian merchants or east via Sogdian merchants to fabled Serica. Caravanserais, stone staging posts with water supplies and a small garrison, were''
''maintained by local rulers at intervals of a day’s journey (10 to 15 miles) to supply the merchant trains. Some caravans resembled miniature towns on the move, one of the largest ones being noted by the geographer Ibn-Fadlan consisted of up to 3000 pack animals and 5000 men. Such a caravan may become an interesting cover for a covenant of peregrinatory Hermetic magi or provide protection for a group of native Mythic Middle Eastern characters. Either scenario may be a source of varied stories based around trade and exploration.''

|}
''The minaret itself contains a Divine aura of 7. By climbing the spiral staircase just prior to dawn, a devout Muslim can access a small Terrestrial divine regio of strength 8 that appears as a round chamber above the rotunda section.''
''Kasri Orifon''
''A small village just east of Bukhara, this site is known for the “wishing tree.” The dead trunk of an ancient mulberry tree forms a twisted arch in the main square. Barren women crawl beneath its trunk in the hope''
''of becoming with child. The tree is home to a Faerie jinn with powers over fertility — passing beneath the wood of the arch leads to a small strength 2 Faerie regio just large enough for an adult human to enter.''
''Otrar''
''In 1218, a Mongol ambassador arrived at the head of a richly laden caravan in this town on the eastern bank of the Jaxartes, carrying a message to the Khwarazmshah. Governor Inalchuq, a cousin of the Khwarazmshah, imprisoned''
''and executed the entire caravan of 450 men, including the ambassador, on the basis that he believed they were spies or perhaps merely out of greed for their valuable wares. The execution of ambassadors was considered a grave insult to the Mongol leader — one underlined by the subsequent humiliation of the Mongols sent in a second embassy. Through this gross insult from a minor official, the Mongol horde descended with devastating effect on the Mawara’n-Nahr. If your saga follows history, Otrar lasts for five months under siege in the first half of 1220 before succumbing to Mongol''

==Story Seeds for Bukhara and Otrar==

''The Sheikhs Beneath the Well''
''The Po-i-Kalyan mosque’s well lies beneath an octagonal platform nearby. If uncovered, explorers can climb down the dry shaft to the base, which contains a pile of loosely stacked skulls within a small Magic aura of strength 3. Each skull acts as an Arcane Connection to the sheikh it once belonged to and can be used to summon the restless spirit of that particular holy man. Beneath the base of the minaret itself lies the grave of an imam ritually slain by the tower’s builder, Arslan Khan.''
''The Lost Books of Bukhara''
''After the Mongols raze Bukhara in early 1220, several rumors circulate as to the fate of the various book collections and libraries. Much poetry is written lamenting the loss of this great collection of scholarly works, comparing it to the burning of the Great Library of Alexandria. Such tales, woven over the years by gifted poets and the Merinita magi of the Keepers of Tales Mystery Cult, attract faeries to the story. Eventually, the collective lamentation may provide enough vitality to reproduce a Faerie replica of the library. Access to such a place would be greatly sought after by mundane, Hermetic and sahir scholars searching for lost secrets and classical knowledge.''
''The faeries associated with the library take the form of rare books, appearing unexpectedly in market stalls run by eccentric merchants or being found serendipitously in the disused sections of old mundane libraries. The books themselves are Faerie creatures and act as Threshold Guardians — by reading the Faerie text and wishing to rediscover the lost library, the readers find themselves in Arcadia. Such stories are always tinged with tragedy and sadness, for a reader may visit the library but once and leave with only a small token of his travel and memories to spread the legend of the Lost Library further within the hearts of scholars throughout Mythic Europe. Such loss and longing provides further vitality to the faeries of the library, as its story weaves into similar tales and creates a lasting motif through the centuries.''
''Job’s Spring''
''At the edge of Bukhara’s farmers’ market lies a small mausoleum, the Chashma-Ayyub, recently built over a small strength 3 Faerie aura containing a small spring. Unlike other mausoleums, no one is buried within its walls. Local folklore describes it as the place where Job struck his staff to the ground and called forth water, but perhaps the legend just represents the adoption of an older pagan tradition. Visited annually by one of the sahirs of the local bayt al-hikma who sponsored the recent construction,''
''the resident Faerie jinn can be bargained with for the faerie-tainted Terram and Aquam vis produced by re-enacting the ancient story within its walls. When the local sahir goes missing, who is to blame — angered jinn or a jealous rival seeking to usurp the vis source?''
''Uqana, the Ghostly Ambassador''
''The ambassador of the first embassy to the Khwarazmshah was Uqana, a Muslim merchant trusted with a personal message of friendship from the great Khan. His execution at the hands of a fellow Muslim has resulted in a restless spirit, trapped as an apparition after death (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 115, for details of this class of ghost). Although the great Khan has avenged his murder, Uqana is unable to rest, as his spirit feels he failed in his duty to deliver his message. Convincing the traumatized ghost to depart to his proper rest will be difficult, given the wake of destruction that the Mongols have left since their affront at Otrar. If compelled by magical means, Uqana may provide valuable information about the intentions and plans of the Mongol leaders. Attempting such magical coercion or lying convincingly to gain the former ambassador’s trust may have grave consequences within the Infernal aura that encompasses his haunt.''
''forces. Inalchuq is captured alive but executed by having molten silver poured into his eyes and ears. The town is reduced to rubble and its population slain or enslaved, a prelude to the fate of the other towns in the region. Its ruins contain a Perfidious Infernal aura of strength 6, tarnished with the sin of Deceit. Lies told within the ruins seem more believable — attempts to spot''
''a lie have their Ease Factor increased by the aura strength.''

==Khwarazm==

''A province of canals and gardens, Khwarazm is the agricultural heart of Tran''
''soxiana and the home to the bellicose Khwarazmshah whose actions brought down the wrath of the Mongol hordes, Sultan Mohammed II Iskander. It produces large crops of cotton, sustains large flocks of sheep for wool, and pastures great herds of cattle in the marshlands among its multitude of canals. Its main industry is trade, including expensive''

==Elephants in Persia==

''The elephant was considered a prize war animal by the Persian armies of antiquity. Small numbers are still found throughout the eastern reaches in the possession of nobles or the Khwarazm military, the former as curiosities and the latter as part of shock troops. Elephants are legendary opponents of dragons and fearlessly attack serpents at any opportunity, but are deathly afraid of the squeal of a sow or boar and will flee this sound unless restrained.''
''Asian Elephant''
''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre –4, Com –5, Str +10, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik –2 Size: +4 Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics x3*, Tough; Fear (the squeal of a pig). * 	 As a Size +4 creature, an elephant gains 12 Characteristic points per Improved Characteristic Virtue. Qualities: Amphibious, Crafty, Defensive Fighter, Grapple, Herd Animal, Sharp Ears, Thick Skin, Tough Hide. Personality Traits: Lustful –3, Wise +2 Combat: Stomp: Init –2, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage +13 Trunk (grapple): Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage n/a Soak: +9 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–10), –3 (11–20), –5 (21–30), Incapacitated (31–40), Dead (41+)''
''Abilities: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (food), Brawl 4 (dodge), Survival 3 (forests or plains), Swimming 4 (rivers). Powers: Trunk, 0 points, constant, Animal: the elephant’s trunk can be used to manipulate objects like a human hand, although tasks requiring two hands suffer a –3 penalty. Natural Weapons: an elephant’s stomp has the following combat characteristics: Init –1, Attack 0, Defense –1, Damage +3. Their trunk is only effective as a grapple. Appearance: The elephant found throughout the Mythic Middle East is the Asian variety. It stands up to 10 feet tall, measures 20 feet long and weighs up to 8,000 pounds. These statistics represent the more commonly domesticated female — only the male elephant has significantly sized tusks to use in combat.''
''Elephants have excellent hearing and vibration sense through the trunk, gaining a +3 on all rolls involving hearing. An average elephant inflicts +15 damage when dropped onto a human-sized character from on high. Male Elephant: Add Aggressive and change to Brawl 5 (tusks). Add the Extra Natural Weapons, Imposing Appearance x2, Large Horns (Tusks), and Herd Leader Qualities and the Ferocity (defending herd) Virtue. Increase Presence to +1 and Communication to –4. Add Leadership 5 (elephants). A male elephant’s Tusk attack has the following combat statistics: Init +1, Attack +9, Defense +5, Damage +13.''
''War Elephant: Add the Aggressive and Pack Animal Qualities. Change to Brawl 5 (stomp) and improve the elephant’s Stomp attack: Init –2, Attack +6, Defense +3, Damage +13. Persian war elephants are usually clad in the equivalent of leather or metal scale (add Protection of 3 or more to Soak) and carry a platform known as a howdah which can accommodate up to six soldiers armed with javelins, polearms or bows. They can be trained to fight as part of a Trained Group with their squad of accompanying soldiers under the direction of their mahout or driver.''
''Story Seed: Elephants of Alexander''
''The ghosts of ancient war elephants can be summoned at the battle sites of antiquity throughout Arabia, Persia, and Transoxiana, using their bones to call them back to unearthly service. Such sites are of particular interest to House Tremere, who seek to expand the versatility and power of their ghostly forces. Faerie war elephants from the land of Hind, as used in the armies of Alexander the Great, appear even larger and more fearsome than their mundane kin. Such creatures sport multiple large curved tusks and have been trained to wield spiked balls on chains with their trunks. They prompt panic in lesser creatures and are capable of deafening opponents with their trumpeting. The remains of these giant creatures are found primarily in the far mountains of the eastern provinces and the southern deserts of Persia.''
''furs from the lands of the Bulghars to the north. Khwarazm is particularly known for its Turkish slaves, however, and is the center of the slave trade in Transoxiana. Young nomads are bought or stolen from the steppes, given an Islamic education, and then dispatched to the far corners of the Islamic Empire.''
''Gurganj''
''A leading town along the trade routes, the town of Gurganj or Al-Jurjaniyah has shifted its site on the western bank of the river over the years to accommodate the vagaries of the floodwaters of the Oxus and the vengeance of the native river spirits. If your saga follows history, the Mon''
''gols besiege Gurganj in 1220, breaking the massive dyke in frustration after five months and unleashing the pent-up waters of the Oxus. Once again, the city falls to the onrushing waters and the great river resumes its flow into the Caspian Sea, releasing the enslaved magical spirits upon their former Khwarazmian captors (see the sidebar on Spirits of the Oxus Delta, earlier). All that will remain after the Mongols march away from the town are sundry corpses and the ruined walls that sketch the outline of the oncegreat city.''
''Kath''
''Former capital of Khwarazm and original home of the native Khwarazmshah''
''dynasty, this once-magnificent city on the eastern bank of the Oxus has suffered repeated flooding throughout its history, washing it into secondary rank. Overlooking a great necropolis to the north stands the mausoleum of Il-Arslan.''

==Farghana==

''To the northeast of Sogdiana lie the open plains of the vast valley of Farghana, the most eastern point reached by the initial wave of expansion sparked by Islam. Famous for its horses, metal goods, and particularly its weapons, it also has fine oil and bitumen. Arab armies are using clay pipes filled with oil as incendiaries in sieges, a tactic later adopted by their Mongol conquerors.''

==The Heavenly Horse of Farghana==

''The valley at the headwaters of the Jaxartes has been known for its excellent horses since antiquity. According to legend, the horses of Farghana are offspring of mundane horses and either mountain river dragons or other seemingly divine steeds that visited the wild steppe herds in the past. Such “Heavenly Horses” appear similar to the Arabian-descended horses of the European nobility but are slightly larger. These Faerie animals are particularly sought after by magi and Gifted sahirs due to their suitability as mounts for Gifted magicians, and local tales tell of representatives from Serica traveling vast distances to procure even one of these amazing mounts.''
''Heavenly Horse''
''Faerie Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com –4, Str +5, Sta +4, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: External Vis (minor, bloody sweat), Faerie Beast, Ferocity (when ridden in battle), Long Wind''
''ed, Improved Characteristic x3, Positive Reputation, Unaffected by The Gift; Incognizant, Proud (minor), Susceptible to Deprivation. Qualities: Amphibious, Domesticated, Fast Runner, Good Jumper, Herd Animal, Imposing Appearance x3, Tireless. Personality Traits: Spirited +3, Loyal +2 Reputations: Dragon-steed 2 (local) Combat: Hooves: Init +4, Attack +2, Defense +6, Damage +6 Soak: +4 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Pretenses: Athletics 4 (long-distance running), Awareness 3 (noises), Brawl 2 (hooves), Swim 4 (rivers). Powers: Heavenly Hooves, 2 points, Constant, Animal: This power allows the animal to move at its maximum speed, unimpeded by poor terrain, achieving up to 30 miles per day. It may even do this across open water or chasms without needing to slow its pace. ReAn 25 (Base 10, Sun +2, +1 Constant): Personal Power, 25 levels. Appearance: These horses appear similar to other mid-sized breeds of charger,''
''although even an experienced horse trainer will find it difficult to ascertain its origin. Usual specimens stand just under 16 hands (62 inches) high but appear more refined than even the finest mundane horse.''
''These Faerie mounts are believed to be descended from river dragons east of the valley of Farghana. Unlike mundane horses, they are not affected by the negative effects of The Gift or Magical Air of their riders. Even a Blatant Gift does not especially bother the animal. These Faerie horses are also renowned for their unusual trait of sweating blood. The crimson sweat is produced by any significant physical exertion, but does no harm to the creature. If properly collected over the course of a year, such sweat acts as a Vis Source and provides 1 pawn of faerietainted Animal vis per year. As a faerie, it does not suffer from fatigue or age, although it does suffer the usual consequences if it lacks air, food, and water in its role as a magical steed. Like all horses, a Heavenly Horse gets a +3 to all rolls involving running or jumping. These creatures are not balanced to be used as player characters.''
''Khojend''
''Framed at the mouth of the Farghana valley, this small trade town is built near the ruins of Alexandria Eschate: the furthest settlement established by Alexander the Great in his campaign of conquests. Another Altar of Alexander lies hidden beneath the city or within the adjacent ruins (see Ruins at Ai Khanoum earlier for details).''
''Osh''
''Located just downstream from the source of the Jaxartes in the Pamir mountains, Osh is the easternmost settlement in the Farghana valley and the northernmost town of the Islamic Caliphate, making it the end of certainty and the starting point for stories of exploration past the map’s edge. Osh is the last caravan stop on the Great Khurasan Road from Baghdad. Merchants follow tales and legends rather than tracks as they climb into the eastern mountains on their way to the fabled Faerie city of Khashgar and thence by the dreaded desert route to legendary Serica.''

==Badakhshan==

''Fabled for its rubies, sapphires, and other jewels, this mountainous region rises upwards into the Caucasus Indicus south of a great northern loop of the Oxus, transected by its main tributary, the Nahr Dirgham (Badakhshan or Kokchka River). Known in antiquity as Balascia, classical geographers place it on the north face of the southeastern slopes of legendary Mount Imeon. Now free from the demonic yoke of the Shansabani of Maiyan to the''
''south, it is one of the borderlands of the ancient world known to the traders who traverse it from northwest to southeast.''
''Wakhan''
''This narrow territory follows the Oxus River from lower Badakhshan back to its mythical source. It is inhabited by reclusive pastoralists known as the Vakhi who speak an almost unintelligible dialect of Parsi (–3 penalty to Ability score). Since''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Badakhshan Story Seeds==

''The Faerie Road to Serica''
''Unlike the lower reaches, the whole upper valley of the Oxus past its junction with the Badakhshan River is covered by a extremely lengthy but narrow Faerie aura bounded by the sharp mountain crest lines to the north and south. Beginning with a weak aura of only 2 at the outskirts of Ai Khanoum, the aura increases gradually as a traveler climbs further east. At the level of the Wakhan Valley proper, the aura has reached a strength of 6 and the Warping it induces is partly responsible for the taciturn nature of the nomads (Reclusive Minor Flaw). Multiple Faerie regiones can be accessed from the path, depending on the traveler’s mood, goals, and particular Faerie Sympathies (see Realms of Power: Faerie for further details). Some of these regiones lead only to blind canyons and certain death, while others contain whole lost kingdoms and cities built on''
''the shores of a great encroaching desert. The most sought-after paths provide portals into the various worlds of Faerie. Those leading to Arcadia are commonest although a solitary traveler is more likely to be drawn into Eudokia to resolve the crisis that has led them to flee beyond the bounds of Hermetic knowledge.''
''Itineris Serica''
''Cartophilius of Mercere has always been regarded as eccentric, even among Mercere magi. His father, Geographicus, was one of the founders of a similar traveling covenant, so it is perhaps unsurprising he has proposed forming another mobile gathering of magi at the recent Normandy Tribunal meeting. The covenant’s mundane cover as a merchant caravan is nothing new, but his intent to seek funding as a dedicated research covenant surprised even the archmagi who knew his parens.''
''Cartophilius intends nothing less than to find the true source of silk by traveling eastward to mythical Serica. Several members argued against his plan, stating that no precedent for such a Seeker covenant exists, but, surprisingly, the Exarch of House Tremere guaranteed full support for such an expedition and volunteered two experienced Tremere magi to accompany the Mercere’s venture. Whether the Exarch’s motives were out of true support or just a pragmatic solution to finding an outlet for the more enthusiastic members of the Burning Acorn Vexillation remains in doubt. This covenant may provide an interesting high fantasy or high Faerie diversion from the usual “castle on the hill by the Faerie wood” trope that is the default of many Ars Magica sagas. Possible covenant magi might include a Nestorian Trianoma spy, a Turkish Criamon Sufi master, and a Levantine Merinita jinn specialist.''

==The Gutluk-Temir Minaret==

''The tallest brick minaret of the Mythic Middle East, this structure rises to over 180 feet, providing a dominating view of the surrounding irrigated province. Despite the religious style, it is surrounded by a Magic aura of 7 and forms the focus of the magical network of fetters and wards that binds the various Oxus river spirits to the dykes noted earlier. The protective magics of''
''the minaret are maintained by the local community of sahirs, who use the structure as their meeting place and ensure the canals continue to support the province’s famed fertility. The sahir community lies directly in the path of the onrushing Mongol horde — the few survivors may be some of the first Solomonic magi to bear news to their brethren in the west.''

|}
''antiquity, a trade route has wound its way up this valley and on to the mythical land of Serica, although no merchant yet claims to have traveled the whole journey''
''there and back again. On occasion, exotic travelers and pilgrims have appeared in the Mythic Middle East, claiming to have traversed the corridor westwards, reciting''
''tales of their adventures in the mountains and stories about the fabled cities of their homelands in the desolate Taklimakan desert beyond.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Blue Stones of Mythic Europe==

''Commonly mistaken for sapphire in period, lapis lazuli’s name derives from the Latin lapis (“stone”) and a corruption of the Persian name of its town of origin, Lahzvard (Latin lazulum, “from Lahzvard”). Its use in amulets, scarabs, and even seals is documented in various Egyptian and Babylonian magical texts. It is also an essential ingredient in the pigment ultramarine. Such pure pigment is greatly valued for the illumination of Hermetic texts as a highly resonant material, although a lesser pigment made from locally available mineral referred to as kuanos, or cerulean (azurite), is often substituted. Pliny’s description of sapphiros flecked with gold is believed by many Hermetic lapidary specialists to refer to lapis rather than sapphire (blue corundum). Lapis lazuli has the following shape and material bonuses: +3 aphrodisiac (when ground as a powder), +5 keep limbs healthy, +5 cure boils and ulcers, +6 versus the Obsession power of demons. A Lapis Lazuli of Virtue contains 2 pawns of Corpus vis. When Enriched by carving it in the shape of an eye, set in gold, and placed as an offering''
''on the last day of the month on an altar dedicated to the Egyptian deity Ra, it confers the Minor Supernatural Virtue Lesser Immunity (obsession power of demons) (ArM5, page 45). Alternatively, it can be smelted in a crucible with lead to remove its gold flecks. When the result is ground to fine powder and applied to the eyelids, it acts as a potent aphrodisiac equivalent to the wearer having the Venus’ Blessing Minor General Virtue (ArM5, page 50). At the Troupe’s discretion, only blue gems from beyond the bounds of Mythic Europe may provide the proper “sapphire” bonuses — a potential story idea is that such blue stones may have to be discovered in dreams, Faerie, the Magic realm or as the result of looting dragon hoards. Details of Sapphires of Virtue are given in Realms of Power: Magic, page 127.''
''Story Seed: Untouched Stone''
''A senior magus seeks the characters’ help with a delicate problem. His attempts to stabilize his new longevity''
''potion require a blue stone the same size as the magus himself as a component, but the cerulean he is using is inadequate for the task. Citing Pliny as an authority, he has determined that he requires the classical sapphiros. The stone must be freshly born, at least human-sized, and remain untouched by human hands. Magical manipulation is out, as the resonance will be destroyed if the rock is affected by magic prior to the ritual. Mining a correctly-shaped hunk of lapis lazuli using indirect magic or mundane means may not represent a great problem, but delivering such a rock to the magus all the way from the mines of Lahzvard in Badakhshan presents a problem. The only guaranteed option is traveling by mundane means through the eastern Caliphate. Given the tumult of the area in the aftermath of the Mongol incursion, such an expedition is bound to present several challenges, not least the risk from bandits or nomads seeking to haul off what is a rather difficult-to-conceal small fortune.''

==Ruq==

''Magic Might: 14 (Animal) Season: Autumn Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +3, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +13, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –4 Size: +6 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Ferocity, Keen Vision, (Cloud) Regio Network, Unaffected by the Gift; Magical Monster; Offensive to Animals. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities:''
''Gigantic x5; Improved Initiative x5, Lesser Power x2; Major Flaw (Age Quickly); Reduced Might x3, Susceptible to Deprivation.''
''Qualities: Accomplished Flier, Aggressive, Extra Natural Weapons, Fast Flyer, Grapple, Imposing Appearance x3, Keen Eyesight, Pursuit Predator, Tough Feathers Personality Traits: Fierce +3, Raptor* +3 Reputations: Stealer of livestock 3 (Transoxiana) Combat: Beak: Init +5, Attack +7, Defense +6, Damage +14 Talons: Init –1, Attack +11, Defense +3, Damage +13 Grapple: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +1, Damage n/a''
''Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–14), –3 (15–28), –5 (29–42), Incapacitated (43–56), Dead (57+) Abilities: Area Lore: Persia 6 (mountains), Area Lore: Transoxiana 6 (mountains), Athletics 5 (flight), Awareness 4 (prey), Brawl 5 (grapple), Hunt 4 (find prey), Survival 3 (mountains) Powers: Clasp, 2 points, Init –8, Corpus: This power weakens the upper limbs of a target clasped by the talons of the''

|}
''The Mines of Lahzvard''
''The limestone deposits along the Badakhshan River at Lahzvard are the only source of lapis lazuli known in Mythic Europe. The greedy jinn of Zubaydah, a fort named after the favored wife of Caliph Haroun al-Rashid, oversee the main mine works. From here, strongly guarded shipments of lapis lazuli travel west to supply European artists and magi or are sent east into the fabled lands of Hind, Serica, and perhaps even the adjoining mountainous regions of Faerie.''

==The Roof of the World==

''The Bam-i-Dunya, or “Roof of the World,” refers to the high plateaus of the Pamir knot, the northwestern Caucasus Indicus, and the ranges that extend southward and eastward into lands outside the Dar al-Islam (“House of Islam”). The civilizations spawned in the valleys cradled below the peaks have traditionally been the middlemen in interactions between the Roman and Persian Empires to the west and the mysterious land of Serica in the east. Islamic mythology claims this chain of stone as part of the Mountains of Qaf and thus one of the homelands of the jinn. Valleys strewn with fist-sized diamonds are the roost of the great ruq,''
''massive eagles that can lift a man in one of their claws and carry him away like a small mouse. In classical texts, the crests of this region are the lesser flanks of Mount Imeon, the mountain at the center of the world, considered by some Criamon magi as''
''the possible original location of the Axis Magica prior to Criamon’s ascendance into Twilight. The whole area is covered by a unspoiled Magic aura of at least 4, although areas with higher auras and regiones of other Realms punctuate its icy expanses.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ruq (cont’d)==

''ruq after a successful Grapple attempt. He cannot attempt to free himself from the ruq’s talons by opposing the Grapple. ReCo (base 3, +1 Eye, +2 Sun), Lesser Power (10 levels, –2 Initiative, 1 spare intricacy point from 5 unused spell levels). Paralyzing Stare, 1 points, Init –9, Corpus: This power transfixes any humansized target that makes eye contact with the great bird’s fearsome stare. ReCo (base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Conc), Lesser Power (15 levels, -2 Might, –1 Initiative from intricacy points) Vis: 3 pawns of Animal, in wingtip feathers''
''Appearance: The ruq appears as a gigantic eagle, with steel-bright eyes and cruelly curved talons. These statistics represent one of the smaller specimens, standing just over 25 feet tall with a wingspan just over 40 feet.''
''Although a magnificent creature, a ruq (or roc) is not a Beast of Virtue and is not designed to be a player character. This ruq is based on a large falcon or eagle (Size –2) with a base Might of 15 advanced to gigantic proportions. This specimen is large enough to carry off livestock, horses and humans. Larger''
''specimens (Size +8) have been seen to carry off elephants and even giants. Golden Eagles: Used by the eastern Turks and Mongols, the large burkit (Size –2) of the steppe are used to hunt foxes and can even be trained to attack wolves. Although similar in appearance to ruq, such eagles use the base characteristics of a falcon given in the Book of Mundane Beasts but have the additional Qualities: Grapple and Imposing Appearance x2. Oversized eagles (up to Size 0) are sometimes used by the Ghuzz magic-kin and have their characteristics modified accordingly for their size (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia).''

|}
''Turris Lapidae, the Stone Tower''
''Ptolemy’s Geography mentions the small mountain kingdom of Sarikol as the stopping point for caravans heading eastwards towards the fabled Sera Metropolis, the capital of the Seres. Some say the overlooking fort marks the halfway point between Europe and the lands of the East, others claim it is a town half in the mundane world, half in the Faerie Realm that provides a gateway into Arcadia. Descriptions stem from the merchant traveler, Maes Titanos, although his report is considered suspect by Ptolemy’s source, the pre-Hermetic wizard Marinus of Tyre who regards the figure of Titanos as a fabrication, Faerie, or an infernalist. In the Mythic world, this sizable town marks the extent of classical travel to the''
''east and is thus one of the mundane geographical limits of the Order’s knowledge of the world. No Redcap or Mercere magus claims to have yet visited this mythical site or entered the fabled tower, leading some Merinita magi to speculate that while it still lies within the mundane world, it can only be reached by passing along the Arcadian paths known to House Merinita.''

==Beyond the Roof of the World==

''Travelers’ tales tell of fantastical creatures found just beyond the eastern peaks. After the mountains comes the desert, studded by prosperous oasis towns and ruins of lost civilizations. Searing heat, cruel''
''winds, and malicious demons populate these stories, and all contribute to luring travelers from their caravans into lingering deaths from starvation and hunger.''
''Khashgar''
''Of all the legendary cities associated with the eastern journey, Khashgar is perhaps the most widely known in the 13th century. Routes from north and south converge on this mythical oasis city before branching around the dreaded Taklimakan desert on their way eastward to the Land of Silk. Scholars debate its origin and exact location but all agree its streets teem with humans, jinn, and other Eastern faeries mixing shoulder to shoulder with angels, demons, and non-Hermetic sorcerers. Nominally Muslim since the late ninth century, Khashgar suffered repression and intolerance under the Eastern faeries of the Qara Khitai dynasty, but has recently fallen under the Mongol yoke without resistance. The inhabitants, both mundane and magical, appear to have taken the change in overlords without much concern. Famous for the Yekshenbar bazaar (“Sunday market”), the city is a place where all manner of exotic goods can be bought or sold. Desert brigands mix with worn merchants; exotic silks, knives, and jewelry are displayed alongside more magical''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Ruq Story Seeds==

''The Ruq’s Nest''
''Faerie ruq also exist, typically acting as Threshold Guardians involving the Path of Chance and stories within Arcadia. Characters attempting to flee the bird’s approach may suffer grievous wounds, while those snatched up by the great raptors find themselves cast into strange stories in distant lands, much like the legendary Sinbad the Sailor. Stories tell of whole valleys within regiones beneath their nests lined with diamonds as large as a man’s fist, populated by giant-sized Faerie sheep and goats. Successful adventurers who escape to mundane lands may claim such gemstones as the prize for their courage — dif''
''ferent gems contain differently-flavored vis according to their nature, although such vis is always Faerie tainted. The Faerie versions differ only in that they possess the Spirit Away Power and replace the (Cloud) Regio Network with the Faerie Speech Virtue, which allows them to fulfill their role as catalysts of high adventure.''
''Janaindar, the City Above the Clouds''
''Local nomad legends speak of a lost city built at the edge of the Magic Realm, seen rising above the clouds atop a great''
''mountain peak on a clear day and all but inaccessible except by magic, or being carried to its aerie by one of the great ruq. The stories say its alien inhabitants claim descent from an ancient magical race that once ruled over the earth, although they appear human in guise. Is this a lost Nephilim settlement? The true location of Hyperborea in Turkistan? An ancient and reclusive covenant of elder magi? The descendents of a rival magical tradition founded by Trianoma’s sister, Viea? The last refuge of the Zoroastrian mobeds? A potential site for a high-fantasy Hermetic covenant above the clouds? The last sanctum of the Diedne?''

==Story Seed: The Black and the Blue==

''The dunes off the main track are feared as the abode of the qara buran (“black hurricanes”), bloodthirsty wind spirits that assail caravans as mighty sandstorms, separating travelers from their camels and companions. These untamable buran closely resemble elemental jinn in nature, but some creatures appear more akin to''

===Infernal Aerial Powers Than To Magical Spirits (See Chapter 4: The Jinn). the Storm Spirits Divide Their Loyalty Between the Great Gök Buran — a Frighteningly Powerful Daimon That Dwells Within an Even Stronger Magic Regio Deep Within the Center of the Sands — and Its Rival, a Duke of Hell Known As Great Lop.===


|}
''wares. Slaves, both mundane and magical, can be found here, for a price. Some Merinita claim to have visited the Khashgar market in traveling through Arcadia, and suggest several versions of the city may exist at once, or that the whole town may lie in a regio accessed from several different mundane sites in Mythic Europe. Ignoring the scholars and their musings, life and commerce goes on in Khashgar.''
''The Taklimakan''
''This magical desert is a place of death — its name translates as “those who go in, never come out.” A pair of geographically shifting auras of constant strength 7 (one Infernal, one Magical) swirl and intertwine across the sands as opposing storms. The two spiral-shaped auras constantly envelope and then reveal ancient Faerie regios, which either contain the ruins of long-deserted cities or thriving oases populated by jinn from before the coming of Islam.''

==The Mythic Steppe==

''Untamed grasslands stretch for almost unimaginable distances along the edge of the Mythic Middle East, and from them pour the Mongol hordes.''

==The Great Steppe==

''Even at its height, the Eastern Roman Empire reached only the fringes of the vast ocean of grassland that stretches the breadth of the continent of Asia, from the Sea of Azov and the great gulf of grass forming the Hungarian plain in the west to the Ordos, and extending to the limitless horizon in the east. Herodotus refers to the littoral of this grass lake as Scythia but speaks of its endless and timeless nature — no continuous landscape feature encountered by Hermetic magi is on the same scale.''
''Tashkent''
''The Turkish “City of Stone,” once the greatest Arab town beyond the Jaxartes, was laid to waste by the vengeful Mongol hordes in 1219, although the Khwarazm''
''shah had already sacked much of it in 1214. Like other towns in the area, it was a city of canals, famous for its vineyards. It formed a trade center between the latter-day Sogdians and their nomadic Turkic neighbors until the recent Mongol incursion. It is already beginning to be resettled and recover its trade position under Mongol lordship and marks the frontier between civilization and the barbarian wilderness.''
''Talas''
''In July 751 the Muslim armies led by Ziya ben Salih met a strange expeditionary force from beyond the eastern steppes. Although less significant than the Battle of Poitiers in 732 in the west, this confrontation marked the easternmost expansion of the Arab armies. Many exotic artisans were captured''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Horse, Steppe Pony (Turpanus)==

''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –4, Str +2, Sta +4, Dex –2, Qik +3 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Enduring Constitution, Long Winded, Improved Characteristic; Simple-Minded Personality Traits: Brave +2 Reputations: Hardy 1 (local) Combat: Kick: Init +5, Attack 0, Defense +5, Damage +3 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (18–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (long-distance running), Survival 3 (steppe) Appearance: Slightly smaller than their European cousins, these hardy ponies range in coloration from light grey to dappled brown.''
''The majority of horses in the Eastern Provinces are the small but hardy ponies of the steppe’s nomad tribes. They are''
''notably different than larger breeds commonly used in Europe, Arabia, and southern Persia presented in the Book of Mundane Beasts and Lords of Men, Chapter 5: Leisure. Steppe ponies are bred from the wild horses of the Steppe by the various nomad tribes that range across it. Exceptional Steppe ponies with the Minor Heroic Virtues Great Bearer and Sure Traveler (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 105-107) are highly prized by the Steppe nomads. Like all light horses, a Steppe pony is a fast runner and gets a +3 to rolls involving running or jumping.''

==Story Seed: The Endless Nomad Cycle==

''The ruins of an old nomad fortress lie near the old town of Talas. Just outside is the terminus of a road from Arcadia that leads to a Faerie reflection of the Mythic Steppe. Throughout history, since before the time of Alexander, waves of Faerie nomads summoned by the great Jaxartes river spirit have descended upon the lands of Transoxiana in an eternal cycle of destruction that echoes in the memo''
''ries and folktales of the people who dwell in the lands beyond the Oxus. Each successive wave carries a slightly different name but brings new terror — the recurring story they enact breaking upon the shores of civilization through eternity. The Mongols may merely represent the latest retelling of the ancient story — see “Gog and Magog” in the sidebar later for further ideas.''

|}
''in this campaign. The technology of papermaking passed into the Islamic world from such captives, with the first paper mill being built in Samarkand shortly after. Nearly five centuries later, the last Khwarazmshah, Muhammad II, defeated the Faerie forces of the mysterious Kara-Khitai nomad dynasty in 1218 to consolidate his rule over Transoxiana. The town was razed completely in 1219 by the Mongol armies on their way to Otrar.''

==Mundane Mongols==

''The following statistics represent an example of mundane versions of the Mongol forces invading Transoxiana and Eastern Persia, as seen through the eyes of their victims. These statistics first appeared in one form in Ancient Magic, pages 15–18. Differing characteristics and Ability specializations may be used, depending on their role''
''in your saga. Alternate ideas on the nomad horde and the effect of aligning it to the various Supernatural Realms follow later.''

==Great Tengri==

''The nomadic peoples of the Mythic Steppe share a belief in a common ancestor and overpower, Khan Tengri, “the''

==Mongol Trooper==

''Characteristics: Int –1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 30 Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Ability (Ride), Puissant Ability (Bows), Warrior; Reckless; Disfigured (scars), Infamous Personality Traits: Brave +3, Reckless +3, Loyal +3 Reputations: Murderous 4 (local) Combat: Dagger: Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +6, Damage +4 Composite Bow (mounted): Init +0, Attack +16, Defense +13, Damage +8 Composite Bow (on foot): Init –2, Attack +13, Defense +10, Damage +8 Saber (mounted): Init +4, Attack +14, Defense +12, Damage +7 Saber (on foot): Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +7 Spear (mounted): Init +4, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +6 Spear (on foot): Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +6 Soak: +4 (armor and Stamina) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16-19), Dead (20+) Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (horses), Area Lore: Mythic Steppe 3 (geography), Area Lore: Persia 2 (geography), Area Lore: Transoxanian 2 (geography), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 2 (in combat), Bargain 2 (livestock), Bows 5+2 (composite), Brawl 3 (dagger), Craft Bows 3, Hunt''
''3 (tracking), Mongolian 5 (military communication), Ride 3+2 (battle), Single Weapon 5 (saber), Survival 3 (steppe) Equipment: composite bow (Load +2), metal reinforced leather half-armor (Load +2), saber (Load +1), daggers, spear (Load +1) Encumbrance: 2 (3) Appearance: A fierce-looking eastern warrior on horseback, his upper body lightly covered by fur-lined leather armor, with an acorn-like metal helmet also fringed with fur. He carries a bow in a quiver on his saddle, a saber, and a short spear with a small hook at the base of the blade.''
''While there are younger soldiers in the Mongol army, this trooper represents the finest specimen that the characters are likely to encounter, the sort of character who would fight in the vanguard during a group engagement, or who might be found singly acting as a scout or guard. Leading such troopers are experienced generals — usually regular warriors with exceptional talent rather than blood relatives of the Mongol royal family — or hereditary chieftains. The Mongolian generals are experts in strategy and tactics, and most of their successes may be attributed to their superior military intelligence and their ability to quickly assess the nature of the battlefield. Many of their enemies are fooled by a carefully staged organized retreat, their finest maneuver, wherein they seem to pull back and draw their opponents out behind them in a long pursuit to''
''exhaust them, before suddenly turning around and attacking. An orlock (Mongol general) can be created as an older Companion-level character based on the Mongol trooper template earlier, with the following changes as an example. Adjust the characteristics to Int 0, Per +1, Pre +2 (1), Com +1, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik 0 due to possession of the Improved Characteristics Virtue. An example orlock might have the following additional Virtues and Flaws: Affinity with Leadership, Clear Thinker, Improved Characteristics, Inspirational, Puissant Ability (Leadership), Self-Confident, Strong-Willed; Enemies (Mythic Middle East), Outsider, Vow (loyalty to Genghis Khan). They lack the Puissant Ability (Bows) Virtue and Reckless Flaw of their troops. Their Confidence score is increased to 2(5) and they have the following Personality Traits: Resolute +3, Ruthless +5, Cunning +4. The average age of an orlock is 40 and they have the following additional Abilities: Artes Liberales 1 (military communication), Craft Siege Equipment 3 (catapults or mangonels), Folk Ken 2 (nobles), Guile 3 (elaborate lies), Intrigue 3 (alliances), Leadership 6+2 (7)(battlefield), Persian 3 (negotiations). They lack the Bargain ability of the common trooper and have their Bows score reduced to only 5. Their Soak, Fatigue Levels, Wound Penalties, Equipment and Encumbrance remain unchanged but their combat statistics will need to be appropriately adjusted. Individual generals encountered may have slightly different Virtues, Flaws and Abilities.''
''Great Sky.” Like the original spirit of the Hercynian Forest (see Guardians of the Forest, Chapter 3: The Forest, pages 30–40) in the far west, the Great Tengri of the Steppe is a powerful supernatural entity that draws its power from the Magic realm. To Hermetic understanding, this primal spirit is similar to a Kosmokrator of the Steppe and the Sky, an Elder Daimon that governs the vast grass sea of the Mythic Steppe.''
''Lesser Steppe Spirits''
''Magic Might: 30-45 (Auram, Terram, or rarely Aquam or Herbam).''
''All are considered genii loci of their particular steppe. Typical Powers: Creator of Winds or Earth, Guide, Manifestation, Presence, Ruler of Winds or Earth. All Steppe Spirits possess the Ways of the Steppe Virtue and some have the ability to Grant Major Supernatural Virtues to their chosen messengers. At its settled fringes, where the Great Steppe has begun to fray under the advance of settled communities, the Great Tengri has engendered lesser spirits at the cost of some of its own power. These lesser spirits are considered genii loci of a particular region, stretches of grassland that can range in size from a small valley,''
''to the size of a large European kingdom. Three possible fates await such lesser fragment spirits. Survival: The genius locus of the local steppe is strong enough to hold its own against the encroachment of the mundanes and the Dominion. These spirits give rise to magical steppes, such as the southeast plains of Russia around the Sea of Azov, the Dzungarian depression, and the distant eastern plains of Mongolia. Between such peripheries, the Great Steppe spirit rules unchecked, only slightly diminished in power. Beyond these buffers, only lesser nature spirits and faeries are found. Dissolution: The genius locus of the''

==Mongol Spirit Shaman==

''Characteristics: Int +1 (1), Per –1 (1), Pre +2 (1), Com +1, Str –2 (1), Sta +2 (1), Dex –1 (1), Qik +1 (1) Size: 0 Age: 55 Decrepitude: 1 (5) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Wise One; Summoning (see Realms of Power: The Infernal); Ghostly Warder (homeland spirit); Puissant Ability (Ride), Warrior; Enemies (Mythic Middle East); Outsider; Disfigured (scars), Infamous, Vow (loyalty Genghis Khan) Personality Traits: Resolute +3, Ruthless +5, Discerning +4 Reputations: Murderous 4 (local), Spirit-worshiper 3 (Infernal) Combat: Dagger: Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +1 Composite Bow (mounted): Init –1, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +5 Composite Bow (on foot): Init –3, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage +5 Saber (mounted): Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +4 Saber (on foot): Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +6, Damage +4 Spear (mounted): Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +3 Spear (on foot): Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +3 Soak: +4 (armor and Stamina)''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–19), Dead (20+) Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (horses), Area Lore: Mythic Steppe 3 (geography), Area Lore: Persia 2 (geography), Area Lore: Transoxanian 2 (geography), , Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (in combat), Bargain 3 (spirits), Bows 5 (composite), Craft Bows 2 (composite), Brawl 2 (dagger), Faerie Lore 2 (spirits), Guile 2 (elaborate lies), Hunt 2 (tracking), Infernal Lore 3 (spirits), Leadership 2 (battlefield), Magic Lore 3 (spirits), Mongolian 5 (negotiations), Penetration 4 (spirits), Persian 3 (negotiations), Ride 3+2 (in battle), Single Weapon 3 (saber), Survival (steppe) 3. Arts: Summoning 22 Equipment: composite bow (Load +2), metal reinforced leather half-armor (Load +2), saber (Load +1), daggers, spear (Load +1) Encumbrance: 3 (3) Appearance: An easterner dressed in a collection of tattered cloth, feathers, and beads, carrying a ceremonial drum and stick. Closer inspection reveals his clothing is reversed.''
''A few of the Mongols in the army are tribal shamans of Great Tengri, the Mon''
''gol sky god. Versed in the power of the spirit world, they can summon spirits to aid them by scouting out the area, attacking supernatural enemies, and spying on their opponents. The rules on Solomonic Summoning in Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman can be used as a guide, and more complex rules for summoning spirits in this way are found in Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 114–115. For the sake of simplicity, you may assume that the shaman can easily summon an appropriate Faerie, Magical, or Infernal spirit of Might 30 or less and bargain with it to convince it to do his bidding. These spirits might agree to be bound to a weapon, creating a sort of enchanted device, or commanded to perform a task for the shaman. The shamans employ whatever sort of spirit is convenient to help them accomplish their objectives, even demons. All shamans have a personal familiar spirit, similar to the qareen noted in Chapter 4: The Jinn. This is usually an ancestor spirit associated with their homeland that follows them and aids them. For examples of these sorts of beings and the powers they have at their command, see The Mysteries: Revised Edition or Realms of Power: Magic or use the jinn as a guide to creating various elemental spirits. Note that these hedge wizards differ somewhat from the original shamans presented in Ancient Magic, page 18.''
''steppe is too small to maintain its control over the steppe, or else it borders on more powerful areas that sap its strength until nothing remains. These spirits leave behind a mundane steppe. Examples include Pannonia, where the effects of the nearby''
''Dominion of the Byzantine Empire have forced the lesser steppe spirits to flee into the deeper steppe. Likewise, the Hungarian plain, hemmed in by the arc of the Carpathians, where the formerly nomadic Magyars have settled, has also been sapped''
''of its remaining strength, becoming an isolated promontory of Divine pasture. Replacement: The genius locus has dwindled and been replaced by another supernatural being. This most commonly gives rise to a Faerie steppe at the edges of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Mythic Mongols Story Seeds==

''Dark Angels of Punishment''
''The possibility of an Infernal Mongol horde may appeal to some troupes. Perhaps the nomad leader and his generals are the mortal incarnations of powerful Angels of Punishment, demons of the Order of Avengers of Evil posing as Divine retribution (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 39–40). The accompanying shamans may be Infernally-aligned human summoners or even fully-fledged diabolists, but the majority of the horde may still be composed of mundane nomads. Instead of an Angel of Punishment, Genghis Khan may be a startling incarnation of the new Zahhak, possessed by the ancient demonic foe of Persia, Azi Dahak (see Chapter 8: Mythic Persia). For more high-fantasy Sagas with a strong Infernal theme, the horde may contain true demons of destruction and other Infernal creatures. This latter option is recommended only for high-powered troupes who are willing to explore a heavily Infernal-themed Saga.''
''Spawn of Gog and Magog''
''Another alternative is that the Mongol horde has ridden out of Arcadia, the latest incarnation of a recurring story that manifests the fears of nomad brutality and avarice held by the agrarian settlers along the steppe frontier since ancient times. From the biblical hordes of Gog and Magog, then Goths, then the Huns and the Avars, the recent Magyars, and now the Mongols, such cyclic dark Faerie incursions are repeated throughout the history of the region. In this scenario, Genghis Khan may be the latest role played by a dark Faerie Monarch, with his generals and officials represented by the other powerful court faeries (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 80–83). The rank and file of the Mongol horde may contain variants of lesser Faerie Knights, Faerie-touched humans, and mundane human nomads. In a high-fantasy saga, the horse archers of the horde may be led by Faerie centaurs, or contain whole troops of such faeries rather than''
''the mundane Mongol Trooper detailed earlier. The shamans and tributary magicians accompanying the horde would be represented by Faerie Wizards skilled in the Artes Fabulosa, or perhaps true Faeries with powers that can equal, and in some cases exceed, Hermetic magic.''
''Prester John, I Presume?''
''A more positive take on the Faerie horde may involve the nomads as the soldiers of Prester John, the Christian King of the East, born out of the legends of the Crusades. The exact source of the legend is unclear, but may relate to corrupted rumors of Sultan Sanjar’s defeat in 1141 by the forces of the Qara Khitai at the Qatwan steppes near Samarkand. This far eastern confederation of nomad tribes contained several Nestorian Christian elements under the rule of a mysterious nomad dynasty. Regardless of the legend’s origins, the story is popular throughout Mythic Europe, perhaps even popular enough to have drawn a troupe of powerful Faeries''

|}
''settlement and pastoralists. The power of the original spirit is subsumed by a Faerie incarnation that feeds off the folktales told by the descendents of nomads. The towns along the Jaxartes border a Faerie steppe.''

==Mythic Mongols==

''The exact nature of Genghis Khan and his Mongol hordes is best left to individual troupes to determine, based on the needs of their saga and the resources available. The simplest approach is to treat the Mongols as mundane barbarians under a brilliantly talented mundane general and let history unfold as usual. Details for mundane Mongol troops are given earlier. Further details of the nomad horde’s activities in the Mythic Middle East in the immediate canonical future are given in Chapter 2 of Ancient Magic, pages 15–18. The bibliography in the Appendix provides further reading and resources available on the web that may aid sagas with a strong Mongol''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Mythic Mongols Story Seeds (cont’d)==

''styling themselves as the legions of the lost Christian monarch. Although posing as Divine agents, such creatures may best be presented as Faeries playing a pious role. They feed off the Vitality released by the powerful emotions created by the effect of their arrival on the Islamic Caliphate, and the consequences the news of its devastation has on the embattled Crusaders and the rest of Christian Europe.''
''The Vengeance of God''
''A final interpretation of the Mongols is as a Divine host of punishment, although this is the most difficult to realize within the historical framework. Reconciling the massacres of the Transoxanian towns may be problematic, but even within the Dominion, the manipulations of demons and the Infernal attempt to divert the righteous into temptation and sin. The Crusades of the Levant provide a precedent for the paradox of holy war. Of all the scenarios this may be the most challenging to Hermetic magi, as the''
''power of the Divine is the only force that can trump the otherwise unassailable in-game position of the Order of Hermes as the most powerful magic in Mythic Europe. In a Divine horde saga, the Mongol shamans may be holy companions following a monotheistic vision of the Great Tengri. Their holy powers are duly feared by the sahirs and hedge magicians of the Mythic Middle East.''
''The Lost Line of The Aquila''
''The fate of the second apprentice of Hercynius is unknown. His name is conjecture, although most tales refer to him simply as The Aquila. Traveling eastwards in search of untouched wilderness, he was last seen entering the littoral steppes north of the Crimea in the late 11th century. On the third day of the 1228 Tribunal, a strange apparition appears in the Durenmar council chamber. The spirit materializes next to the startled Praeco. Witnesses describe seeing a translucent man carrying a legionary standard, a large eagle, or a''
''blurred summation of both forms. Philipus Niger’s first attack appears to have little effect on the supposed spirit. The apparition merely looks around at the gathering, says nothing, and then quickly fades away. The covenant’s Aegis appears intact. The elderly Archivist, Xavier of Mercere, claims to recognize the apparition, which he says resembles the long-lost magus. Is the apparition The Aquila or merely a shamanic descendant spirit traveling by phantasticum? Is there now a Nightwalker tradition strong enough to challenge the Order of Hermes, somewhere out in the Mythic Steppe? Could the lineage of Hercynius have survived? Out of Hermetic contact for nearly two centuries, would the magic of The Aquila’s descendants even be recognizable as Hermetic? Where would their allegiances lie — to the Order that abandoned them or to the encroaching nomads of the great grass sea? What ramifications for the Order would ensue if the secret of Parma Magica has been handed down and shared with the hedge magicians of the encroaching hordes?''

==Steppe Spirit Story Seeds==

''The Ride of the Shaman''
''Led by visions of an unending sea of grass beneath the clearest of blue skies, one of the characters wanders out into the steppe alone. After surviving a harrowing night of severe exposure on the Steppe, the character successfully achieves communion with the Steppe spirit and is ordained a shaman of the Great Tengri. The Ordeal inflicts an effect similar to a premature gain in enough Aging Points (in any Characteristic) to achieve the next level in Decrepitude, automatically forcing a Crisis (see ArM5, pages 169–170), and the gain of enough Warping Points to raise his Warping score by 2. In return, the character gains the equivalent of the Nightwalker Virtue, and the ability to enter ekstasis and generate a spirit body referred to as a phantasticum in return for the Pagan Flaw — the great spirit, while tolerant, demands its messengers respect its divin''
''ity (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 103–119, for examples of Nightwalker traditions capable of spirit traveling).''
''The Founder’s Final Work''
''Aloof, distant, and uncaring, the Great Tengri would seem to present no current threat to the western based Order. Unlike the fractured remnants of the Hercynian Forest Spirit, Mercurian rituals have not weakened this primal magical force, and it is yet untouched by the settlement of the mundane and the miracles of the Dominion. Its lands are largely untamed, except at its fringes where the lesser steppe touches on urbanized cultures. Quiet and alien, it remains as powerful as ever, a vast reservoir of magical power waiting to be studied and unlocked by a Hermetic magus dedicated to completing the final work of Hercynius filius Bonisagus, the integration of Merinita’s original nature magic into Hermetic theory.''

|}
''story element. More Mythic variants based loosely in historical fact include casting the Mongol leader and even his more famous generals as powerful Blood of Heroes Mythic Companions, as detailed in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 103–104. In this option, the Mongol leaders are scions of Ares (Mars) or perhaps Attila, the most famous nomad raider of the near past. Alternatively, Genghis Khan himself may be invested as a Spirit Votary of the Great Tengri spirit of the Mythic Steppe, having bargained with the sky spirit on the slopes of the sacred Mongolian mountain of Burkhan Khaldun (see earlier for details on this Kosmokrator-level Magic Spirit). This version of Genghis Khan may be''
''able to call upon elemental Magic powers staggering enough to require the fractured Order of Hermes to unite against his campaign or risk annihilation. Rules for Spirit Votaries are detailed in Realms of Power: Magic, pages 88–89.''
''Magus-level Shamans?''
''Troupes with access to Hedge Magic Revised Edition may wish to consider using magus-level shamans in their sagas, either as worthy non-Hermetic adversaries or perhaps even as potential recruits to the Order via House Criamon or Ex-Miscellanea. In either of the historically rooted scenarios detailed earlier, a powerful sha''
''man might best be represented as Gifted Companion or Mythic Companion variants of Nightwalkers, able to travel by phantasticum (spirit-body), similar to the Magyar Taltos. Such Magic-aligned nomad magicians may have access to the Goetic Art of Summoning, the Major Virtue Mythic Herbalism and perhaps some minor powers (Flight, Healing, Premonitions, Skinchanger) commonly attributed to the Folk Witches found in other parts of Mythic Europe (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 33–54, for details of Folk Witches, and pages 103–119, for examples of Nightwalker traditions capable of spirit traveling).''
''Given the immense area covered by this book, it is not surprising that a wide range of languages are spoken throughout the region, none of which are particularly related to one another. Each consists of several distinct regional dialects, which are given in parentheses; most characters should take the appropriate one as a specialty. Educated or well-traveled speakers will have tried hard to rid themselves of their dialect, and may have standard specialties (see ArM5, page 66). When two characters converse in different dialects of the same language they must both subtract one from their Language Ability scores.''
''Arabic (Egyptian, Khaliji, Levantine, Maghrebi, Maslawi) Oghuz (Azerbaijani, Ghuzz, Turkish) Parsi (Bactrian, Baloch, Kurdish, Luri, Pashto, Persian, Sogdian, Tabari) Avestan (a dead Language)''
''Arabic is the most important of these, as the language of the Qur’an and of religion, of scholarship, and of the administration in most of the Muslim world, as well as the language most commonly spoken in the western Middle East. The Khaliji dialect is spoken principally in Arabia, whereas the Maslawi dialect is spoken in Iraq and Jibal. The Maghrebi dialect is spoken throughout North Africa. The Arabic language uses the Arabic script. Parsi is also widely used, especially in the eastern regions, with Persian (Parsik) as its “court” dialect, and various distinct dialects for Kirman and Makran (Baloch), Mazandaran (Tabari), Khuzistan (Luri), Jibal (Kurdish), and Ghur (Pashto). The Sogdian dialect is spoken in most of Transoxiana and Khwarazm, except for''
''Bactria, where they have their own dialect. Parsi uses an extension of the Arabic script to permit Persian sounds such as “p” and “ch,” although ancient texts use the Pahlavi script. Sogdian uses its own Sogdian alphabet. Avestan is the liturgical language of Zoroastrianism, and uses either the older Pahlavi or the more recent Avestan script. Throughout the Muslim world, variants of Oghuz are also spoken by many members of the nobility. Turkish is the dialect most commonly heard in Seljukinfluenced areas, although the Azerbaijani and Ghuzz dialects of Oghuz are sufficiently different from the Turkish dialect to cause some difficulties in understanding. Historically, Oghuz was transliterated in Turkic “runes,” but only the Ghuzz retain this tradition; Turkish is written using the Arabic script. Other languages that characters may encounter include Hebrew (among Jews), Latin and Greek (especially among scholars), Mongolian, Aramaic (among some Christians of the Jazira and northwest provinces), Ge’ez (among Ethiopian Christians), Georgian, and Armenian. One language that is written and used liturgically but not commonly spoken is Syriac, used by Nestorian and Jacobite Christians.''

==Muslim Names==

''Traditional Muslim names consist of some or all of a number of elements:''
''Ism: The name given at birth. This may be an Arabic name, the Qur’anic form of a biblical name, a compound name''
''consisting of “Abd” (servant of) plus one of the names of God (among men; women might use “Amat” in place of “Abd,” but this is much less common), or a non-Arabic name. Nasab: Pedigree. The nasab in Arabic consists of “ibn” (son of) or “bint” (daughter of), followed by either the father’s ism or a family ism. Kunya: This is the term “abu” (father of) or “umm” (mother of), prefixed to either the name of a child or an attribute, acquired either upon becoming a parent or as an epithet. This may appear before the ism or after the nasab. Laqab: An honorific or descriptive title, or occasionally a nickname, often held by nobility, religious notables or other important figures. Many laqabs consist of a compound term ending in “al-Din” (of the faith) or “al-Dawla” (of the state), while another common form is to start with “al-Malik” (the king), followed by a descriptive term. Individuals may have more than one laqab. Nisba: A broad term denoting profession, place of origin or birth, or tribe or family. It can also be a descriptive element. Nisbas often begin with the definite article “al-” and end in “i,” in the case of men, or “iyya,” in the case of women. An individual may have several nisbas.''
''As an example, the full name of Saladin is: Al-Malik al-Nasir Salah al-Din Abu’lMuzaffar Yusuf ibn Ayyub ibn Shadhi alKurdi. This breaks down into:''
''Name: Al-Malik al-Nasir Meaning: The King who Aids Element: laqab''

==Appendix A Languages and Names==

''Name: Salah al-Din Meaning: Righteousness of the Faith Element: laqab''
''Name: Abu’l-Muzaffar Meaning: Father of al-Muzaffar Element: kunya''
''Name: Yusuf Meaning: Joseph Element: ism''
''Name: ibn Ayyub Meaning: Son of Job Element: nasab''
''Name: ibn Shadhi Meaning: Son of Shadhi Element: nasab''
''Name: al-Kurdi Meaning: The Kurd Element: nisba''

==Persian Names==

''Muslim name structures are used by Persians, with a few differences. Traditional Persian isms tend replace the Arabic components. The nasab is indicated with either “i” rather than “ibn,” or else using the suffixes “-pur” or “-zade.” Laqabs and nisbas tend to follow the Muslim model, although often use their Parsi equivalents.''

==Seljuk Names==

''The Seljuks have adopted Muslim names, by and large, although traditional Turkic isms are used. Either “-oghlu” or “zade” is suffixed to the father’s or family name to form the nasab. Sometimes several forbears are given.''

==Sample Names==

''A number of sample isms, laqabs, and nisbas are given here. Other Muslim names''
''may be found both in this book and in many history books about the Middle East.''

==Sample Arabic Isms==

''Men: ‘Abd Allah, ‘Abd al-Rahman, Ahmad, ‘Ali, Asad, Ayyub, Bakr, Badar, Dawud, Dirgham, Fadl, Ghassan, Ghazi, Harith, Harun, al-Hasan, alHusayn, Ibrahim, ‘Isa, Ishaq, Isma’il, Ja’far, Jamil, Kathir, Khalid, Khalil, Labid, Mahmud, Muhammad, Nu’man, Qasim, Rashid, Ridwan, Salih, Salim, Shibl, Sulayman, Tahir, Tamim, Tariq, Thabit, ‘Umar, Usama, ‘Uthman, Wahhab, Yahya, Yusuf, Zayd, Zibyan, Zubayr. Women: ‘A’isha, Amina, Anisa, Bilqis, Busra, Dhakira, Duba’a, Dujaja, Durra, Fadila, Fatima, Ghazala, Ghaytha, Habiba, Hajir, Hakima, Hind, Jamila, Jumana, Kabira, Kabsha, Khadija, Khalila, Layla, Lubaba, Maryam, Maymuna, Nasiba, Nawal, Nawar, Qamra’, Rabi’a, Rahima, Sa’da, Safiyya, Salma, al-Shafa’, Shayma’, Sumayta, Taliha, Tarifa, Tayma, Thubayta, ‘Unayza, Walida, Yasira, Yasmina, Zahira, Zahra, Zaynab.''

==Sample Persian Isms==

''Men: Alborz, Arash, Arastoo, Ardashir, Babak, Bahadur, Bahman, Bahram, Baraz, Behnam, Behram, Behruz, Dariush, Daryush, Delshad, Ebrahim, Esmail, Faridoon, Firdaus, Firuz, Gulzar, Heydar, Jahan, Jahangir, Jamshad, Javaid, Khodadad, Khorshid, Khwaja, Kianoush, Massoud, Mehrdad, Mirza, Navid, Omid, Papak, Parvaiz, Payam, Rashne, Roshan, Rustam, Shahin, Shahjahan, Shahpur, Shahriar, Shahrivar, Shahriyar, Shahrokh, Shahzad, Sher, Siavush, Sohrab, Urvakhsha, Zhubin Women: Arzu, Atefeh, Azar, Bahar, Banu, Elaheh, Firuza, Ghoncheh, Gul, Gulbahar, Gulistan, Jaleh, Laleh, Mahin, Mahine, Mahtab, Mahvash, Minoo, Minu, Mojgan, Morvarid, Naheed, Nahid, Nasrin, Nilofer, Nousha, Paniz, Parastu, Pari, Parisa, Parvana,''
''Parvin, Roshanak, Roshanara, Roshni, Sahar, Sanaz, Shabnam, Shahnaz, Shahrazad, Shideh, Shirin, Shohreh, Shokufeh, Simin, Tahirih, Yasamin, Zareen, Ziba''

==Sample Seljuk Isms==

''Men: Adem, Ahmed, Ahmet, Alp, Altan, Asil, Aslan, Aydin, Bariş, Berk, Berkant, Berker, Bulut, Bünyamin, Burak, Çağatay, Can, Coskun, Direnç, Ediz, Emin, Emir, Emre, Ender, Engin, Erdem, Eren, Erol, Firat, Göker, Hakan, Hikmet, İbrahim, İlhami, İlker, İlkin, Kadri, Koray, Kudret, Levent, Mehmed, Mehmet, Metin, Muhammet, Murat, Musa, Ömer, Onur, Osman, Ozan, Özgür, Savas, Selim, Serhan, Serhat, Serkan, Soner, Temel, Tolga, Tunç, Turgay, Ufuk, Umut, Volkan, Yakup, Yavuz, Zeki Women: Asli, Aygül, Aylin, Ayşe, Aysel, Aysu, Aysun, Basak, Belgin, Berna, Bilge, Burcu, Canan, Ceren, Deniz, Derya, Dilara, Dilek, Ebru, Ece, Eda, Ekin, Elif, Elmas, Emel, Emine, Esen, Esin, Fidan, Filiz, Gizem, Gonca, Gözde, Gül, Gülay, Gülbahar, Gülistan, Hande, Havva, Hazan, Ipek, Irmak, Kelebek, Kiraz, Meryem, Müge, Nergis, Nesrin, Nilüfer, Nuray, Özge, Özlem, Pembe, Pinar, Şebnem, Sevda, Sevgi, Simge, Tülay, Tutku, Yağmur, Yeter, Yildiz, Yonca, Zeynep''

==Sample Laqabs==

''Given their predominance in government, laqabs are most commonly used by men.''
''Men: ‘Imad al-Din (Support of the Faith), ‘Izz al-Din (Power of the Faith), Nur al-Din (Light of the Faith), Salah alDin (Righteousness of the Faith), Sharaf al-Din (Honor of the Faith), Baha’ al-Dawla (Beauty of the State), Majd al-Dawla (Glory of the State), Nasir al-Dawla (Aid of the State), Sayf al-Dawla (Sword of the State), Shams al-Dawla (Sun of the State),''
''Nizam al-Mulk (Order of the Kingdom), Fakhr al-Mulk (Pride of the Kingdom), Taj al-Muluk (Crown of Kings), al-Malik al-’Adil (the Just King), al-Malik al-Afdal (the Most Excellent King), al-Malik al-Kamil (the Perfect King), al-Malik al-Nasir (the King who Aids), al-Malik al-Salih (the Righteous King). Women: Walidat Khalil (Mother of Khalil — used by the Mamluk sultana Shajar al-Durr (r. 1250), indicating her being mother to the son of al-Salih II Ayyub), Radiyyat al-Din (Approval of the Faith).''

==Sample Nisbas==

''Men: al-Kufi (of Kufa), al-Makki (of Mecca), al-Isfahani (of Isfahan), al-Farisi (of Persia), al-Khwarizmi (of Khwarizm), alKalbi (of the tribe of Kalb), al-Khazraji (of the tribe of Khazraj), al-Qaysi (of the tribe of Qays), al-Shaybani (of the tribe of Shayban), al-Ayyubi (of the family of Ayyub), al-Kutubi (the bookseller), al-Qalanisi (the hat-maker), al-Suyufi (the swordmaker), al-Shafi’i (follower of the Shafi’i school of law), al-Mutanabbi (claiming to be a prophet).''
''Women: Women’s nisbas appear in the masculine or feminine forms in historical sources, depending on whether the author regards them as being part of the woman’s name or the patrilineal genealogy. Generally if the kunya is placed after the nasabs, the nisbas will be in the feminine. The feminine forms of the earlier nisbas are: al-Kufiyya, al-Makkiyya, al-Isfahaniyya, al-Farisiyya, al-Khwarizmiyya, al-Kalbiyya, al-Khazrajiyya, al-Qaysiyya, al-Shaybaniyya, al-Ayyubiyya, al-Kutubiyya, al-Qalanisiyya, al-Suyufiyya, al-Shafi’iyya, al-Mutanabbiyya.''
''c. 950 BC Suleiman first practices his Art in the Middle East. 650 Birth of Zoroaster. 550–330 The Achaemenid Empire, founded by Cyrus The Great and ended by Alexander the Great; at its height, it encompasses Anatolia, Mythic Persia, the Levant, as well as Transoxiana and Egypt, and also engages in significant territorial disputes with the Greek city-states. Zoroastrianism established by Cyrus as the official state religion. Fire temples are built across the empire under Antaxerxes II. Zoroastrian calendar is formalized. Zurvan heresy emerges. 539 Destruction of Babylon by Persians under Cyrus the Great. 334–326 Conquest of Persia by Alexander the Great. Slaughter of Mazdean priests, destruction of literature. Fire temples are destroyed. 323 Death of Alexander the Great. 312–61 BC The Seleucid Empire of Persia, one of the successor states of the empire established by Alexander the Great. 141 BC–224 AD Empire of the Parthians in Persia. Revival of Mazdean faith, rediscovery of many lost traditions and scriptures. 224 AD Ardeshir I defeats the Parthian king and becomes the first ruler of the Sasanid dynasty of Persia. High priest Tansar fixes the Mazdean canon. His successor Kirder reorganizes the priesthood. Many fire temples refounded. Oral tradition is recorded. 412 Cult of Mercury disbanded. c. 570 Birth of Muhammad. 610 Muhammad receives first revelation. 622 Muhammad emigrates from Mecca to Medina. Date of start of Muslim calendar. 630 Muhammad takes Mecca.''
''632 Death of Muhammad. Abu Bakr caliph. 632–644 Muslims take Syria, the Holy Land and Egypt. 634 Death of Abu Bakr. ‘Umar caliph. 637–651 The Islamic Conquest of Persia, leading to the end of both Sasanid rule and Zoroastrian dominance. Much slaughter of Mazdean priests and forced conversions. 644 Death of ‘Umar. ‘Uthman caliph. 644–671 Muslims take Khurasan. 656 Death of ‘Uthman. ‘Ali caliph. 661 Death of ‘Ali. Mu’awiya first caliph of Umayyad dynasty. Jizya imposed on non-Muslims. Conversion of Mazdeans is sporadic. Most Persians still Mazdean. 680 Battle of Karbala’, death of al-Husayn. c. 700 The first Solomonic summoners swear service to the Umayyad caliphs. 707 Muslims take North Africa. 712 Muslims invade Spain. 717 Muslims cross Pyrenees into France. c. 720 Umayyad summoners and jinn at war 732 Muslims defeated by Franks under Charles Martel at Poitiers. 746 Jinn lay siege to Damascus. 750 Fall of Umayyad caliphate. Al-Saffah first ‘Abbasid caliph. 762 Foundation of Baghdad. 767 Order of Hermes founded. 786–809 Reign of Harun al-Rashid. 786 Harun al-Rashid becomes caliph, invites scholars to serve as viziers on his “Solomonic” council. 787 First Council of Harun al-Rashid established. 789 Grand vizier Al-Khayzuran dies. Yahya ibn Khalid retires, Ja’far ibn Yahya becomes grand vizier. 803 Grand Vizier Ja’far beheaded, Yahya imprisoned. 848 Sundering of House Tremere. 805 The Suhhar Sulayman established in''
''Baghdad with the first meeting of the Majlis al-Sulayman. 869 – 917 Persian Muslim dynasties gain power under ‘Abbasid caliphate. Persecution of Mazdeans intensifies to 917. Leaders of Persian Mazdeans sail from Persian Gulf to a fabled Eastern land. 925 Iberian sahirs split from the Suhhar Sulayman. 945 Persian Buyids take control of Baghdad and the caliphate. 961 Execution of Tasgillia. 1003–1012 Schism War. 1009 Ferdowsi finishes the Shahnameh, the Persian “Book of Kings.” 1037 The Seljuk Togril Beg unites the Turkomen tribes of the Great Steppe and invades Persia. In 1055 he takes Baghdad, and assumes control over the caliph and the armies of the ‘Abbasid caliphate. His successor Alp Arslan extends the sultanate to Anatolia, Armenia, and Georgia. Increased persecution of Mazdeans. 1090 Hasan-i Sabbah takes Alamut. 1092 Death of Malik Shah and partial fragmentation of the Seljuk Sultanate between his sons. 1095–1109 First Crusade. Soldiers from Europe take much of Levantine coast and establish states at Antioch, Edessa, Tripoli, and Jerusalem. 1131 Ahmed Sanjar, son of Malik Shah, consolidates control over the western Seljuk Empire. 1144 Zangi takes Edessa. 1147–1148 Second Crusade fails to take Damascus. 1149 Shansabani coup in Khurasan, lead by Ala’uddin Hussain, also called Jahansoz — “World Burner.” 1151 Ghuzz invade southeastern Persia, capture Sultan Ahmed Sanjar and hold him captive for three years.''

==Appendix B Timeline==

''1157 ‘Abbasid caliph al-Muqtafi (r. 1136– 1160) successfully defends Baghdad from Seljuks, securing independence of the caliphate. 1174–1187 Saladin unites Muslim Levant, takes Jerusalem and much of coast from crusaders. 1180–1225 Reign of the ‘Abbasid caliph al-Nasir. 1189–1192 Third Crusade secures territory on coast but fails to take Jerusalem. 1194 Tekish, the ruler of Khwarazm, defeats Togril III, ending Seljuk rule of Persia. 1195 Most recent Grand Tribunal held. 1202–1204 Fourth Crusade takes Constantinople. 1205 Ala al-Din (son of Tekish) conquers Persia and proclaims himself shah (emperor). 1206 Shansabani Sultan Mohammed alGhuri assassinated on the banks of the River Sind by a Nizari; the Khwarazmshah forces the Shansabani to concede control of Khurasan. 1212 Ala al-Din adds Transoxanian territories to his empire and now rules all the land from the Jaxartes to the Tigris. 1218–1221 Crusaders temporarily hold territory in Egypt. 1219–1227 Mongols under Genghis Khan take eastern Persia. 1230–1240 Mongols take western Persia, Georgia, Armenia, and northern Iraq. 1243 Mongols overwhelm Seljuk sultan of Asia Minor. 1248–1250 Crusaders under St Louis temporarily hold territory in Egypt. 1256 Mongols destroy strongholds of Persian Assassins. 1258 Mongols take Baghdad, put caliph to death. 1260 Mamluks halt Mongol advance in Syria.''
''1261 Byzantines retake Constantinople. ‘Abbasid caliphate re-established in Cairo. 1265 Mongols establish protectorate over Seljuk Asia Minor. 1268–1291 Mamluks gradually re-conquer coast from crusaders.''
''1273 Mamluks destroy last of Assassins’ strongholds in Syria. 1281 Mamluks defeat renewed Mongol invasion in Syria. 1295 Mongol khan of Persia becomes Muslim.''
''Works that are useful introductory texts for the general reader are marked with an asterisk.''

==General Reference==

''*Bacharach, J.L., A Middle East Studies Handbook. Seattle & London: University of Washington Press, 1984. Kabir, B.b.M.H., A Guide to Islamic Names. Mecca: Safa Press, 1990. Various, Encyclopaedia Iranica Online: http:// www.iranica.com (13th February 2009). Various, The Encyclopaedia of Islam. 1st Edition, 4 vols. and Supplement. Leiden: E.J. Brill & London: Luzac & Co., 1913–38. Various, The Encyclopaedia of Islam. New Edition, 12 vols. and Supplements. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1979–2009. Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Main_Page (13th February 2009).''

==History and Geography==

''Benjamin of Tudela, trans. M.N. Adler, The Itinerary of Benjamin of Tudela. New York: Philipp Feldheim, Inc., 1907. Bosworth, A.B., Alexander and the East: The Tragedy of Triumph. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1996.''
''Bosworth, C.E., The New Islamic Dynasties. New York: Columbia University Press, 1996. Boulnois, L., trans. H. Loveday. Additional material by Mayhew, B., & Sheng, A., Silk Road: Monks, Warriors & Merchants. Hong Kong: Odyssey, 2008. Christian, D., A History of Russia, Central Asia and Mongolia: Volume I, Inner Eurasia from Prehistory to the Mongol Empire. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing, 1998. De Hartog, L., Genghis Khan: Conqueror of the World. London: I.B. Tauris & Co, 1989. *Egger, V.O., A History of the Muslim World to 1405. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Education, 2004. An Historical Atlas of Islam, ed. Brice, W.C. Leiden: E.J. Brill, 1981. Historical Atlas of the Muslim Peoples, ed. R. Roolvink. Amsterdam: Djambatan, 1957. *Hourani, A., A History of the Arab Peoples. London: Faber and Faber, 1991. Humphreys, A., King, J., Mayhew, B., Noble, J., Plunkett, R. and Richmond, S. Lonely Planet: Central Asia 2nd ed. Melbourne: Lonely Planet Publications Pty Ltd, 2000. Ibn Jubayr, Muhammad, trans. R. Broadhurst. The Travels of Ibn Jubayr. New Delhi: Goodword Books, 2007. Kennedy, H.N., The Great Arab Conquests: How the Spread of Islam Changed the World We Live In. UK: De Capo Press, 2007. Kennedy, H.N., The Prophet and the Age of the Caliphates. London & New York: Longman Inc., 1986. Lane, E.W., ed. S. Lane-Poole, Arabian Society in the Middle Ages. London: Curzon Press, 1883; repr. 1987. Le Strange, G., The Lands of the Eastern Caliphate. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1905; repr. U.S.A.: Elibron Classics, 2006. PDFs of the maps may''
''be downloaded from: <http://elibron. com/maps/index.phtml?author=le+stra nge&title=&isbn=&where=0&lang[]=1 &search.x=20&search.y=6&submit=1> (18th February 2009). *Lewis, B., The Middle East. London: Phoenix, 1996. Man, D., Genghis Khan: Life, Death and Resurrection. London: Bantam Press, 2004. Omar, Farouk, “Urban Centres in the Gulf during the Early Islamic Period: A Historical Study,” in Bulletin of the British Society for Middle Eastern Studies, Vol. 14, No. 2 (1987), pages 156–161. Peters, Francis E., Mecca: A Literary History of the Muslim Holy Land. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1994. *Ruthven, M. & A. Nanji, Historical Atlas of Islam. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 2004.''

==Religion==

''Ahmad, Salim, Revealing the Mystery Behind the World of Jinn. USA: BookSurge Publishing, 2008. Al-Ashqar, U.S., trans. Jamaal al-Din & M. Zarabozo, The World of the Jinn and Devils. Boulder: Al-Basheer Company for Publications and Translations, 1996. Jawaid, Mahmood., Secrets of Angels, Demons, Satan and Jinns. USA: InstantPublisher. Com, 2006. Livingstone, E.A., The Concise Oxford Dictionary of the Christian Church. 2nd ed. Oxford & New York: Oxford University Press, 2000. The Meaning of the Glorious Koran, trans. M.M. Pickthall. New York & London: Mentor, n.d. *Rippin, A., Muslims: Their Religious Beliefs''

==Appendix C Bibliography==

''and Practices. 2nd ed. London & New York: Routledge, 2001. Toorawa, S.M., “Khidr: The History of a Ubiquitous Master,” in Sufi, No. 30 (Summer 1996), pages 45–49. The Unbound Bible: http://unbound.biola. edu (13th February 2009). Various, The Catholic Encyclopedia: http:// www.newadvent.org/cathen (13th February 2009).''

==Myths and Legends==

''*Arabian Nights, trans. R.F. Burton & ed. J. Zipes. New York & London: Penguin Books, 1991. The Book of the Thousand Nights and One Night, trans. J.C. Mardrus & P. Mathers. 4 vols. London: Routledge & Kegan Paul Ltd., 1953.''
''Bushnaq, I., Arab Folktales. New York: Pantheon, 1987. Gaiman, N. & P.C. Russell, The Sandman #50: Distant Mirrors: Ramadan. USA: DC Comics/Vertigo, 1993. Hanauer, J.E., The Holy Land: Myths and Legends. London: Senate, 1996. Ibn al-Kalbi, Hisham, trans. Nabih Amin Faris, The Book of Idols. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1952. Irwin, R., The Arabian Nights: A Companion. London & New York: Penguin Books, 1994. Myths from Mesopotamia, trans. S. Dalley. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2000. Pseudo-Callisthenes, trans. R. Stoneman, The Greek Alexander Romance. London: Penguin, 1991. *Al-Saleh, K. & Salim, R.N., Fabled Cities, Princes & Jinn from Arab Myths and Legends. World Mythologies Series, USA: Schocken, 1985. Severin, T., In Search of Genghis Khan. New York: Cooper Square Press, 2003. The Thousand and One Nights, trans. E.W.''
''Lane & ed. E.S. Poole. 3 vols. London & New York: Routledge, Warne and Routledge, 1865. The Thousand Nights and a Night, trans. Various (collection of various versions): <http://www.wollamshram.ca/1001/ index.htm> (18th February 2009). Walker, B.K., Turkish Folk-Tales. Oxford Myths & Legends. Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1993. Willingham, B. & M. Buckingham, Fables Vol. 7: Arabian Nights (and Days). USA: DC Comics/Vertigo 2006.''

==Other==

''Christie, N., Blood and Sand: The Levant Tribunal. Roseville, MN: Trident, Inc., 2002. Sheoul, S., The Dragon and the Bear: The Novgorod Tribunal. Roseville, MN: Trident, Inc., 1999.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
