''Amongst us [jinn] are some that submit their wills and some that swerve from justice. Now those who submit their wills, they have sought out the path of right conduct: but those who swerve, they are fuel for Hell-fire.''
''— The Qur’an, Al-Jinn: 14-15''
''According to Islamic teaching, God created three classes of intelligent beings: the angels (mala’ika, sing., malak) made of light; the jinn (“the hidden,” masc. sing. jinni, fem. sing. jinniyya) made of smokeless fire or aether; and humans (al-Ins) made of clay. Angels are God’s direct servants at his side, while both humans and jinn are capable of salvation and were sent to populate the earth. Muhammad was tasked with bringing both jinn and humans to salvation and many jinn appear to have adopted Islam, but there are also jinn who have devoted themselves to tempting others and have rejected the message of the faith, risking damnation. It is said that the jinn were the original inhabitants of Earth but fell away from the worship of God. Iblis, the Islamic equivalent of the Devil, is recorded as being originally one of the most powerful of the ancient jinn. He fell to pride and refused to bow down to Adam when commanded by God. All jinn occupy a constant place in the folklore of Islam and share several common characteristics. Some myths tell of impious humans that have transformed into jinn on their deaths, although whether this describes the creation of Infernal ghosts or transformation into Magic spirits or some kind of Faerie apotheosis is difficult to determine. The true nature of bazarkh, the soul’s experiences immediately after death, has not been elucidated by the few Merinita and Criamon scholars interested in pursuing this state. See the “Terminology''
''of Jinn” sidebar for further details. All jinn are said to be composed of “smokeless fire” — the exact nature of this varies depending on the chosen Realm alignment of the particular jinni: Faerie jinn are composed of Glamour, Infernal jinn have bodies of rarefied power and Magic jinn are composed of pure magic. This magical body is usually aligned to the Form of Vim, rather than being flame associated with the Form of Ignem, although some jinn, particularly Magic jinn, are''
''strongly aligned to the elemental Forms. Most jinn can assume a physical form composed of elemental matter or solid energy using one of their powers. Many have the ability to change their shape into elemental manifestations, animals, humanoid forms, or the shape of particular humans. Jinn divide themselves into several main tribes that roughly correlate with their Realm alignment. Thus the Jann are lesser Faerie jinn that follow the ways of Islam and pass for human merchants, no''

[|

==Other Middle Eastern Spirits: Non-Jinn==

''Common Muslim folk sometimes mistakenly refer to ghosts and other supernatural creatures from Arab folklore as jinn. Dhilan, ghaddars, hatifs, naddahas, nisnases, shiqq, and udars are not jinn in the sense given here, nor are the Persian divs, yazatas, and peris. However, Faerie jinn may mimic or assume roles similar to these creatures in order to entrap humans in their stories. These creatures have different origins than jinn: ghosts may have once been humans; some have been created by magical mishaps or the workings of ancient wizards; others are aligned to the Divine or Infernal Realms. Despite their name, the Faerie creatures referred to as Soqotran jinniyah and associated with the Myrrh trees of that island are not true jinn and are similarly unaffected by Sihr. Arab folklore also blames many supernatural events and occurrences, including ghostly haunting, on the jinn. Thus the term “jinni” is also mistakenly used to describe any magical spirit, effect or creature. The lesser Airy Spirits, including the entities understood by''
''Hermetic theory as Spell Spirits, are similarly explained using this lesser term, though they lack the cultural identity of true jinn. The Named Spirits of Hermetic Theurgy, such as the Astra Planeta daimons so well known to Arab wizards, are also not considered jinn, and are referred to instead as al-Nujum, “the Stars.” To the ignorant mundane, anything supernatural is jinn, but to a sahir, a jinni is a specific creature subject to the Art of Sihr and its legacy of command passed down from the wisdom of Suleiman. This makes dealing with unknown supernatural entities potentially difficult and dangerous for a sahir, and so most prefer to rely on knowledge passed down by their forebears and are very cautious when dealing with encountered spirits they have not summoned directly. Sahirs using Sihr or their Solomonic Magic have no exceptional power over these other spiritual creatures but some may be able to use different magical abilities such as the Goetic Arts of Summoning and Commanding to affect these spirits.''

|]
''mads, or shepherds, interacting with humans in stories involving hospitality and morality. The Shaitan are a collection of both dark Faerie and Infernal spirits, some of who have become corrupted into true terrestrial demons. The Ghul tribe consists of dark Faerie sexual predators and cannibalistic Infernal savages that haunt cemeteries and graveyards looking for carrion or lone travelers. The powerful Marid tribe are a loose alliance of ancient Magic elemental spirits of water, wind, and weather found predominantly in Arabia.''

==Terminology of Jinn==

''The exact nature of jinn is difficult to define, as the term is used collectively to refer to a myriad of spirits variously aligned to the Faerie, Infernal and Magic Realms. There are no Divine jinn, only Is''
''lamic angels. Other terms used within the various folk tales refer to rank or power within various tribes of jinn. The names ‘afrit and marid usually refer to the stronger types of Faerie jinn, although their relationship to humanity can be either benevolent or antagonistic depending on their defining role. Confusingly, the terms Ifrit and Marid also refer to two of more powerful of the reportedly 112 jinni tribes. The term “shaitan” typically refers to dark Faerie jinn but is also used to refer to Infernal jinn in general, the specific tribe of jinn known as Shaitan, and in many cases to Iblis himself.''

==Jinn Defined Mechanically==

''The sahir summoning art of Sihr is defined in its scope by its limitation of summoning only jinn (see Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman). In this book, the term jinni refers specifically to the collective''
''group of supernatural spirits (in Latin, genii) that inhabit the Islamic lands and are integral to wider Arab culture. This definition includes jinn aligned to the Faerie Realm, as well as those genii loci found in Muslim lands aligned to the Magic realm. It also addresses a range of Infernal spirits: true demons of Islamic lands and wider Arab folklore, such as Iblis and his descendents; the ghul; and local Middle Eastern examples of demons, such as mazzikim and shedim. Together they form a collective of entities of varied Realm alignment characterized by the following:''
''• They share a common special Free''
''Virtue: Jinni that denotes their unique status. • They have True Names that can''
''be learned, even those jinn of low Might Score. • They are supernatural spirits native''
''to the lands of the Dar al-Islam: the Levant, Iberia, the Maghreb, Egypt, Arabia, Iraq, Mesopotamia, Persia, and Transoxiana. • They have encountered Islam and''
''chosen to accept (Faerie), reject (dark Faerie), ignore (Magic), or oppose (Infernal) the teachings of the Prophet. • They almost universally speak and understand Arabic (classical) as an Ability, Pretense, or via magic — rare ancient jinn may speak Aramaic, Hebrew or lost Semitic languages. • They have the Ability (or Pretense, if''
''Faerie jinn) Theology: Islam (jinn) as part of their exposure to and incorporation into Arab culture. • They have some supernatural power''
''that allows them to remain hidden when desired — either invisibility, immateriality, illusory form, or the ability to shapechange into animal guise.''
''Ultimately, the storyguide is the final arbiter on what is a jinni and what is not a jinni. Specific Faerie or Infernal jinni may not rigidly conform to the guidelines presented here if it suits their concept or role to be an exception — this may include select Hermetic and Heroic Virtues and Flaws at the discretion of the storyguide. Each jinni is an individual with his own unique place in the story. Be creative.''
''Ghosts, demons that are not specifically Infernal jinn, and the European spirits of the Faerie and Magic Realm familiar to Hermetic magi are definitely not jinn. Creatures of Virtue and other physical creatures with a Might score are also not jinn.''

==Common Jinn Traits==

''Most jinn who interact regularly with humans possess the Faerie Speech Minor Virtue or an equivalent power such as the Minor Heroic Virtue Gift of Tongues instead, giving them the ability to converse in all spoken languages. Some of the rarely-encountered pre-Islamic jinn may claim to speak only Aramaic, or some other ancient Semitic language. Jinn frequently have Second Sight and a Greater Malediction stating that, when it enters a bargain, it is bound to the agreed terms unless its partner reneges first. The supernatural nature of jinn is usually apparent to regular humans and some animals, such as cats, dogs and horses, although this is reflected in different Flaws for jinn of different Realms as noted later. Many humanoid jinn possess one or more of the Skinchanger Minor Virtue and the Ways of the Land (Desert or, less commonly, Mountains or Plains) and the Greater Immunity: Fire Major Virtues. As spiritual beings, jinn must possess the Donning the Corporeal Veil Power (for Magic jinn) or a similar power, such as Coagulation (for Infernal jinn) or an equivalent (for Faerie jinn), in order to create a physical body that can interact with material beings. Some minor jinn, such as the Faerie jann and the Infernal ghul, are spirits locked into a physical form, but they can shapechange into at least one other form or become insubstantial or invisible for short periods of time. Jinn are generally considered extremely long-lived (equivalent to the effects of the Faerie Blood Minor Virtue) but are not always immortal, and many lesser jinn have the Age Quickly Major Flaw rather than being truly immortal spirits. Not all jinn have Conﬁdence, but many Faerie jinn possess the Reputation as Confidence Virtue, which grants Confidence to be used for specific actions re''
''lated to their roles, similar to the Ferocity Virtue of animals. Some Infernal jinn have lost the ability to act contrary to the dictates of their passions, transforming into true terrestrial demons, and thus lack a Confidence score.''

==Jinn and Free Will==

''Although jinn appear to possess free will, Islamic scholars believe this may not be true. The Ghul and Shaitan tribes''
''have already made a choice to side with evil and this decision is reflected in their predominantly dark Faerie nature. Those individual Infernal jinn who have become true demons have sacrificed their free will on becoming irrevocably aligned with Iblis and the Infernal. Faerie jinn may act as if they have freedom but, in truth, their choices are restrained by the roles and stories they inhabit. All jinn claim a common origin in Jinnistan. Some sahirs and scholars speculate that this means jinn began as creatures of the Magic Realm born with free will, and''

[|

==Jinni Names==

''Jinni names, while similar to those of the humans of the Mythic Middle East, have their own peculiarities. Generally, such names fall into several broad categories and follow conventions similar to other Arab names including the use of nasab, kunya and nisbas. Only the more powerful ranks of jinn such as the ‘afrit and marid have multiple names, often using an honorific name to describe their greatness (laqab) (see the Appendix for further details on names). The first group of names includes those jinn named after common animals of which they can assume the shape, particularly in the case of Faerie jinn. Such names include: Af’aa (“Snake”), Arnab (“Hare”), Baghl (“Mule”), Fa’r (“Mouse”), Feel (“Elephant”), Hemaar (“Donkey”), Hesaan (“Horse”), Jamal (“Camel”), Kalb (“Dog”), Maa’ez (“Goat”), Nasr (“Vulture”), Qett (“Cat”), and so forth. Many Magic jinn are named after the natural feature they are associated with as their locus: Amirat al-Jabal (“lady emir of the mountain”), Ighraq al-Siq (“torrent of the gorge”). Others have titular names or nicknames (nisba): ‘Abd al-Qinnina (“slave of the bottle”), Bali’ al-Ard (“swallower of the ground”), al-Damawi (“the bloody”), al-Ghazzalin (“the weaver”), al-Khalil (“the Empty One”), al-Malik (“the king”), al-Qatil (“the slayer”). Finally, many Faerie jinn have names that seem almost human but have an un''
''real or dissonant quality to them, for example: Anees al-Galees, Jerjees, Kabikaj, Kharrat, Khyron, Qumqam, Singam, Sakr, Zamzam, Zarmabaha. Troupes are encouraged to generate these latter names by changing some of the letters of Arabic, Aramaic, Turkish or Persian names at random.''
''Story Seed: The List of Suleiman''
''King Suleiman was granted dominion over all jinn by God and many sahirs believe that the Art of Sihr is directly descended from his powers. Legends speak of a codex written by the prophet containing the True Names of all jinn, a priceless treasure for any summoner. The list can reputedly update and edit itself magically as jinn are born and die. Some sahirs claim to have found fragments of Suleiman’s list amidst the pages of other books dealing with (Realm) Lore — pages on which archaic names sometimes disappear or emerge between readings. Whether these pages are truly fragments of the greater list or Faerie books created from the legend is unclear — not all the names appear to be genuine True Names. Both Hermetic magi and sahirs may seek to recover such fragments in the hope of reconstructing either the whole text or discovering the means of capturing the True Names of new jinn.''

==Jumayl, A Jinni Guide==

''This lesser jinni has been created as an example starting magus-level character using the full rules from Realms of Power: Faerie. The selection of skills and particular powers are designed to be useful for a party traveling through the Mythic Middle East. His need for vitality and human interaction to recover Might points provide a strong hook to involve him in adventures and active stories, making him a good choice to accompany magi as a guide throughout the area covered by this book. Jumayl may be found in any major city in the region or even the ports of the Levant, but he favors the bustling markets around the fortress of al-Mushaqqar in Bahrayn (see Chapter 6: Mythic Arabia), where well-paid work and cheap alcohol can be easily found.''
''Jumayl''
''Faerie Might: 15 (Vim) Characteristics: Int –1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +0, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size: 0 Age: appears 25 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Jinni, Pass as Human; Greater Powers x2, Ostentatious; Faerie Speech, Highly Cognizant, Humanoid Faerie, Increased Faerie Might x2, Improved Characteristics, Reputation as Confidence (caravan guard), Second Sight, Skinchanger, Warrior, Well-Traveled, Wilderness Sense; Greater Malediction (keep any bargain made), Might Recovery Requires Vitality; Carefree, Dutybound (Bedouin honor code), Traditional Ward (Bismillah Invocation), Vulnerable to Folk Tradition. Personality Traits: Impulsive +3, Cheerful +3, Impious –1 Reputation: Skilled Caravan guard 2 (Mythic Middle East) Combat: Long Sword: Init +5, Attack +14, Defense +9, Damage +8 Soak: +3''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Animal Handling 3 (camels), Athletics 3 (running), Mythic Middle East Lore 4 (trade routes), Awareness 3 (alertness), Brawl 3 (dagger), Bows 5 (short bow), Carouse 2 (power drinking), Faerie Speech 5, al-Mushaqqar Lore 2 (drinking establishments), Faerie Lore 3 (jinn), Folk Ken 4 (mercenaries), Leadership 4 (battle), Ride 3 (camels), Second Sight 3 (jinn), Single Weapon 7 (long sword), Survival 2 (deserts), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn), Wilderness Sense 3 (find water). Powers: Cuirass of the Zephyr, 1 point, Init +3, Auram; as Circling Winds of Protection with Duration of Recitation / Qira’a (as long as Jumayl keeps reciting verses of the Qur’an — equivalent to Concentration). Blinding Light of the Pious, 1 point, Init +3, Ignem; as Flash of the Scarlet Flames. Tay al-Ard (Travel), 4 points, Init +1, Corpus; this power instantly transports Jumayl and 2 individuals he holds hands with from one location to another that he has visited before or has an Arcane Connection to, regardless of distance. As Leap of Homecoming, with R: Touch, T: Group, 45 spell levels, 1 Intricacy point spent on reduced cost. Equipment: a fine damascene steel long sword, leather scale caravan guard armor, flashy jewelry Vis: 3 pawns of Vim vis, camel’s tooth Appearance: Jumayl (“little camel”) is a comely, lithe man of uncertain oriental appearance, alabaster skin and white hair. One eye is iridescent green, the other ocean blue. He favors swirling robes dyed a deep blue color over light leather armor, highlighted by gold jewelry.''
''This jinni, one of the jann, is a mercenary guide, forced to wander from caravanserai to caravanserai along the''
''trade routes of the Levant, Arabia, Persia, Transoxiana, and beyond for a crime his brother committed. An excellent swordsman and skilled outdoorsman, he is well known among the Muslim merchants and even Levantine Redcaps for his easy-going nature and bravado in defending caravans from raiders and brigands. Like most Faerie jinn, he can change into an animal form — in his case, a white wild Bactrian camel using his Skinchanger Virtue. Although immune to Fatigue like other faeries, Jumayl is unusually susceptible to the effects of mundane alcohol — a weakness that helps him to play his role within stories along the caravan routes. Unlike most faeries, due to his Might Recovery Requires Vitality Flaw, his Might points, once spent, can only recover if he gets a full night’s rest and eats a meal in the company of fellow travelers. This must be done within a human community, eating travel rations or caravanserai meals, drinking beverages fermented by humans and listening to humans sing or tell tales about their travels. For every eight hours the character rests, he recovers a number of Might Points equal to the prevailing Aura as modified by the Realm Interaction Table, or 1, whichever is greater. He does not actually need to eat or drink however. Jumayl knows enough about wizards to avoid leaving Arcane Connections carelessly and keeps his True Name a close secret. His powers have been created as Greater Powers but could readily be reduced to Lesser Powers to downgrade him to a standard companion if his Ostentatious Major Virtue, 2 Increased Faerie Might Minor Virtues and Highly Cognizant Minor Virtues were also dropped. In this case, his Might Recovery Requires Vitality Major Flaw should be replaced with three Minor Flaws. Alternatively, if used as an NPC, his Virtues and Flaws do not need to balance and further powers with illusions or summoning animals could be added.''

|]
''changed their Realm alignment to either Faerie or the Infernal only after interacting with humanity and coming into contact with Islam, losing their free will in the process. The fact of the matter is unclear — jinn may only appear to change Realms. For example, a Magic jinni of a local geographic feature may be replaced by a Faerie jinni created through stories of its interactions with nearby Muslims. Alternatively an Infernal jinni, attracted by the potential for sin created by the presence of pagan Magic spirit, may destroy the original genius loci and take its place. To common folk and even magi, the jinni may appear to have changed Realms as the new spirit assumes the name, appearance, and role of the original entity.''

==Pious and Impious Jinn==

''Those jinn who profess to have submitted to or rejected Islam are aligned to the Faerie Realm. Often referred to as pious and impious jinn, their religious behavior is a sham required by their roles in that they appear to uphold or illustrate Islam’s tenets as an example or challenge to humans. This type of jinni is the one most likely to be involved with mundanes and they are frequently encountered in the Mythic Middle East. These creatures often live in groups like humans and mimic the behavior and culture of their mundane neighbors, often appearing as merchants, shepherds and nomads, although city-dwelling jinn are frequently encountered in the farther reaches of the Mythic Middle East. Such jinn generally live in close proximity to humans but in places humans find inhospitable: deserts, ruins, wastelands, and abandoned houses, or in wells, cisterns, latrines, and other taboo places. Together they comprise a group of Faeries involved in meddling with humans in a variety of boundary stories, whether physically or philosophically, but most commonly representing tales concerned with social distinctions or adulthood. Most of these Faerie-aligned jinn share the following Virtues and Flaws in addition to those noted earlier for all jinn: Eidolon,''

[|

==Bali’ al-Ard, a Bedouin racehorse==

''Beloved by his master, a young Bedouin sahir named Salih al-Kamil, this jinni takes the form of an exceptional Arabian stallion renowned for his racing ability. His magical travel powers and lack of fatigue allow him to cheat during the dust and confusion of longer desert races. This gives his master great status and pride, feeding his need for Vitality, but is also the source of continual harassment from horse breeders wishing to mate their mares in the hope of producing talented offspring. As they are unaware of the Faerie nature of the horse, such suitors do not realize that time out at stud deprives his master of his magical aid and that such unions will always be unsuccessful in producing foals.''
''Bali’ al-Ard''
''Faerie Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com –4, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +5 (racing)* * 	 Denotes the specialty for Mythic Quickness. Size: +2 Confidence Score 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Jinni, Faerie Beast; Greater Power; Great Quickness x2, Improved Characteristics, Mythic Quickness (racing)*, Personal Power x2, Reputation as Confidence; Curse of Venus, Greater Malediction (keep any bargain made); Proud (Minor), Incognizant, Traditional Ward (Bismillah Invocation), Tragic Intelligence (easily tricked) * 	 Although a Heroic Virtue, this Virtue is allowed, being integral to the Faerie racehorse concept. Qualities: Domesticated, Fast Runner, Herd Animal, Imposing Appearance x3 Personality Traits: Proud +3, Loyal +2, Brave +1 Reputations: Magnificent racehorse 3 (local) Combat: Hooves: Init +6, Attack +3, Defense +4,''
''Damage +5 Soak: +3 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Pretenses: Arabic 5 (horses), Athletics 6 (racing), Awareness 3 (bad footing), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Drinker of the Wind, 1 points, Init +1, Animal; This power instantly transports ‘ al-Ard from one location to another within seven leagues that he can see or has an Arcane Connection to. As Seven League Stride but as a non-Hermetic effect allows the rider to accompany him to fulfill his racehorse role. Greater Power, 30 spell levels, 2 Intricacy points spent on Initiative and 2 Intricacy points spent on reduced Might cost. Immateriality, 3 points, Init +2, Imaginem; Makes him immaterial until sunrise or nightfall. Personal Power, 40 spell levels, 1 Intricacy point spent on Initiative, and 1 Intricacy point spent on reduced Might cost Equipment: exceptional quality tack and harness, coppery gold horseshoes Vis: 1 pawn of Animal vis, copper horseshoe Appearance: Bali’ al-Ard (Arabic, “The Swallower of the Ground”), appears as a magnificent example of an Arabian stallion, a breed famed throughout the Mythic Middle East and even in far-off Europe.''
''This jinni can only assume animal form although he is able to become immaterial. He is an example of a potential khadim (servant spirit) of a beginning unGifted sahir with only limited scores in the Solomonic Arts. See Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman for more details of khadim and sahir. Bali is not balanced for use as a starting player character and is based on an Arabian racing horse — essentially a modified courser. Like all horses he gains a +3 to running rolls.''

==Bottles of Suleiman, Slaves of the King==

''There we saw a man casting his net to catch fish, and presently he pulled them up and behold, in them was a cucurbite of copper, stopped with lead and sealed with the signet of Solomon, son of David, on whom be peace! He brought the vessel to land and broke it open, when there came forth a smoke, which rose a twisting blue to the zenith, and we heard a horrible voice, saying, ‘I repent! I repent! Pardon, O Prophet of Allah! I will never return to that which I did aforetime.’ Then the smoke became a terrible Giant frightful of form, whose head was level with the mountaintops, and he vanished from our sight... — Tale of the “The City of Brass,” The Thousand and One Nights''
''Folk tales abound in Eastern folklore of poor fisherman who cast their nets into the ocean, calling upon God’s aid only to pull in strange and ancient bottles. Termed “cucurbites” and known to the peasant folk as Suleimanic Bottles, these vessels are gourd-shaped copper flasks sealed with a lead plug embossed with the Seal of Suleiman. When the stopper is removed, a jinni issues forth, either thankful or wrathful toward its rescuer, but always a potential source of wealth or woe. In some tales the prison is in the form of a seal ring, or, most famously, a humble battered lamp. The origin of these mystical containers is unclear — some may indeed represent pre-Islamic jinn bound by Suleiman in ancient days, while other examples may represent echoes of the legends of spirits bound by his magical descendants and contemporary sorcerers. So popular has this motif become in Arab folklore that a particular type of Faerie jinn, the Bottles of Suleiman, have become associated with this story, taking the form of the vessels themselves. Typically involved in stories about the Bringing of Riches and Humility (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 79), these liminal entities can be found anywhere along the shorelines of Islamic lands, usually near the villages of poor fishermen.''
''‘Abd al-Qininna, a servile Bottle of Suleiman ‘afrit''
''Faerie Might: 30 (Imaginem) Characteristics: Int —, Per +2, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: +3 (in ‘afrit form) Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Jinn, Monstrous Appearance, ; External Vis (Major: copper cucurbite, grants Self-Confident), Greater Power x2 (Tay al-Ard, Flight), Ritual Power x4 (Binding Oath, Grant: Wealthy); Faerie Speech, Improved Powers x2, Lesser Powers x4, Narrowly Cognizant, Reputation as Confidence*; Intangible Flesh, Sovereign Ward (Bismillah) Personality Traits: Proud +3, Sly +3, Cruel +2 Reputations: Terrifyingly magical +3 Pretenses: Penetration 6, Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Binding Oath, 5 points, Init –19, Vim; Voice, Penetration +15; Upon “releasing” the apparently captive ‘afrit from its prison, the rescuer can bargain for a set three wishes or a length of conditional service depending on the personality of the individual Faerie jinni, provided he agrees to destroy the cucurbite and permanently release the jinni from captivity. 50 levels, Ritual Power, 5 Intricacy points spent on reduced cost. Eidolon, 2 points, Init –2, Imaginem; This power allows the Suleimanic Bottle to manifest its glamour both as the prop known as a cucurbite that appears to contain its essence and then in a second form as a towering humanoid column of smoke issuing from the mouth of its prison. 20 spell levels, selected twice. Illusionary Home, 4 points, Init –4, Imaginem; Creates a sumptuous phantasmal palace for the bearer of the cucurbite. 40 spell levels. Flight, 3 points, constant, Auram, Touch; 30 spell levels as Wings of the Soaring Wind. Loosely Material, variable points, Init –5, Corpus; The spirit can form either a simple physical manifestation of its cucurbite''
''that can be touched by a potential master or add substance to its ‘afrit form so it can bear loads, invoke Touch range powers or engage in combat at the request of its master. 25 spell levels. Tay al-Ard (Travel), 4 points, Init +1, Corpus; This power instantly transports the ‘afrit and others it carries from one location to another that the bearer of its cucurbite has visited before or has an Arcane Connection to, regardless of distance. As Leap of Homecoming, with R: Touch, T: Group. 50 spell levels, 1 Intricacy point spent on reduced cost. Serendipitous Wealth, 10 points, Init –9, Terram; This power seemingly grants the effects of the Wealthy Virtue, but similar to the Wealth of Nations power of False Gods, summons treasure from somewhere else. (See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 37). 50 spell levels, Ritual Power (Grant: Wealthy), 5 Intricacy points spent on cost. Vis: 6 pawns of Imaginem, concentrated in its cucurbite prop Appearance: These Faeries initially appear as their cucurbite, a solid gourd-shaped flask of copper, using their Eidolon and Loosely Material powers. They shift into their smoky column form only when the Seal of Suleiman stoppering their apparent prison is disturbed. This latter form consists of a giant human torso of unnatural color, often red, but sometimes blue or green, surmounted by a monstrous face with horns or jagged teeth. To the inexperienced observer, this fearsome manifestation appears to be the actual faerie, although in reality the jinni remains an insubstantial spirit beneath the illusion.''
''Bottles of Suleiman is not suitable as player characters due to their unbalanced power and their limited independent potential in stories. Only an exceptionally experienced sahira would be able to bind this powerful version as a spirit companion using the khadim bond, although lesser examples of this type of jinn may be attractive to younger sahira. This jinni is primarily inspired by the stories “The Fisherman and the Jinni” and “The City of Brass.”''

|]
''Loosely Material, Intangible Flesh, and Traditional Ward (Bismillah Invocation), or rarely, Sovereign Ward (Bismillah Invocation). These jinn commonly have powers associated with illusions, flight, shape changing (into animals, whirlwinds or other humans), and travel, rather than the elemental-themed powers of their Magic cousins. Many Faerie jinn suffer from the Minor Flaws Dutybound (Bedouin hospitality), Vulnerable to Brass, Vulnerable Magic (mua’addhin’s call) and/or Vulnerable to Folk Tradition. Unlike most other faeries, Faerie jinn possess True Names as noted earlier, even if they have a low Might Score. The minor Faerie jinn known as jann are highly dependent on human interaction and differ from their cousins in that they must have a physical form, although every janni can transform into at least one other shape, usually an animal. Such lesser Faerie jinn have the following Virtues and Flaws: Humanoid Form, Pass as Human, Dutybound (Bedouin hospitality), Restricted Might Recovery, Traditional Ward: Bismillah Invocation. Examples of Faerie jinn with details of some of the Virtues, Flaws and powers mentioned earlier include the Bottles of Suleiman, Faerie ghulas, Hesaan the racehorse, and the janni Mythic Companionlevel character, Jumayl, detailed nearby. Faerie jinni counterparts to many European faeries exist within the Mythic Middle East and can be adapted for use in a saga set in the Mythic Middle East, see the Faerie Bestiary of Realms of Power: Faeries, pages 70–83, for further details.''
''Pre-Islamic Jinn''
''Long ago during al-Jahiliyya, the pre-Islamic times of the past, Faerie jinn claiming Jewish and Christian beliefs were common. Even in the days before the Great Deluge, the jinn are purported to have followed the original monotheistic religion of Adam. Such jinn would be also considered Faerie rather than Magic in alignment, but are seemingly rare in the thirteenth century. Many jinn are said to have been imprisoned in ancient times by the Suleiman. These jinn either declare their faith''
''in the older forms of religion when encountered or else claim to have converted to Islam somehow during their captivity. Such ancient Faerie jinn can be difficult to distinguish from the elemental jinn noted later, even for experienced sahirs, and play roles in stories about discoveries of the past and the fleeting nature of mortal achievements.''

==Pagan Jinn==

''Jinn that show little interest in the affairs of mankind or the message of the Prophet are typically aligned with the Magic Realm. Referred to as pagan or heathen (kaffir, “unbeliever”) jinn, these elemental spirits are tied to specific landscape features in the wilderness that lies between the major settlements of Arab civilization across Persia, the Holy land, North Africa, and southern Iberia. This natural feature may be an oasis pool, a mountain or a stretch of desert. These spirits are true genii loci, only able to leave their feature''
''through transferring their locus to an individual or object through a form of magical bargain, and may reflect the most ancient and original manifestation of jinn — spirits defined by their geographic identity rather than their reflection of and interaction with Islamic culture. Some of these pagan jinn claim to represent pre-Islamic divinities worshiped by the Arabs in ancient times or ancient powers of long lost races and cultures, but they are not dependent on human vitality like their Faerie counterparts. As Islam spread, other initially non-Arab Magic spirits were forced to adapt, accepting additional Inferiorities in return for retaining their places of power or else evolving into Faerie or Infernal versions of their former manifestations like the Forest Spirits of ancient Germany (see Chapter 3: The Forest of Guardians of the Forest for further ideas). As primal Magic creatures, many have strong elemental ties. They are aligned with one of the classical elemental Forms of Auram, Aquam, Ignem and Terram and can be affected by the appropriate El''
''emental Summoning Art, although they have true intelligence and are not considered simple elementals. Other jinn embody the living Herbam aspects of nature. Such Magical jinn, being Magical Spirits, need not eat or drink and do not age unless they suffer from the optional Age Quickly Flaw. These elemental creatures are the type of jinn most commonly summoned by both non-Hermetic and Hermetic sahirs and are generally the most easy to identify as jinn using either Magic Lore or an appropriate Area Lore (see Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman). Each has a mandatory Ways of the (Land) Virtue and Magical Air Flaw. These jinn may possesses some or all of the following Powers: Donning the Corporeal Veil (at least once for humanoid form, although additional animal forms are common), Guide, Manifestation and Presence. Crafter of (Form) and/or Ruler of (Form) are common among greater genii loci but optional for lesser jinn. The most powerful examples of these pagan jinn are true Daimons (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 110). The jinni Wahhab is an example of a Pagan jinn (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 135).''
''Unlike their Faerie and Infernal cousins, Magic jinn are not automatically susceptible to the Bismillah Invocation, although many of the less powerful entities possess a Minor Flaw mechanically equivalent to the Traditional Ward (Bismillah Invocation) of their Faerie cousins. Some of the more powerful entities with greater familiarity with the teachings of Islam, as represented by a Theology: Islam score of 3 or more, may even feign submissiveness to catch an unsuspecting sahir off-guard. The great Daimon of the Empty Quarter, Al-Khalil, mentioned in Chapter 6: Mythic Arabia, the jinni at the base of the Whirlpool of Uballa (Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia) or the feared ruler of the Taklimakan (Chapter 9: On the Silk Road) would all be appropriate to design as powerful Magic jinn.''
''Creating Magic Jinn by Example: Baghl and Ighraq al-Siq''
''Baghl, see insert earlier, has been created by using the lesser flame jinni Wahhab from Houses of Hermes: Societates,''
''page 135, as a starting point, changing his Form alignment to Terram but retaining his resistance to flames. He is an example of a lesser earth jinni that might be pressed into service by a more mature sahir as a khadim, and is not designed as a starting character. Alternatively, he could be a potential patron for a Spirit Votary if he could be coaxed out of his cave, but would need to add the Grant: Spiritual Pact Ritual Power, which may require trading additional Inferiorities (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 88–89, for details of Spirit Votaries). As a spirit of a place, the physical location haunted by this jinni acts as an Arcane Connection that provides a +1 bonus to the Penetration Multiplier; more potent Arcane Connections can only be obtained from the jinni if he takes corporeal form. Unusually for a jinni of his power, Baghl has a reasonable knowledge of Islam and may pretend to be susceptible to the folk traditions that affect Faerie jinn, although except for the muezzin’s call, such rituals have no real effect over him. Ighraq al-Siq, from Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia, is an example of a very powerful Magic jinni with a strong el''

[|

==Variants on the Genie of the Lamp Motif==

''The creature ‘Abd al-Qininna reflects a reasonably powerful version of this motif — an ‘afrit able to drastically change the fortunes of the poor man who releases it. In contrast, the simplest and least powerful of this class may possess only the Eidolon power, have much diminished characteristics and merely dissipate upon release with a great show of imagery and an exclamation in praise of Allah and Suleiman. These lesser jinn feed off the vitality shed by the simple wonder of the common fisherman before dissolving their cucurbite or projecting an illusion of it washing back out to sea in the confusion caused. Although bottles are the commonest form for the cucurbite prop, similar Faerie jinni prisons have been described that manifest as brass rings, bowls, or most famously as a battered lamp. The creature portrayed in the Aladdin story''
''would be more powerful than the one described here, perhaps with a Might of 50 or more and extra magical powers. An intermediate example with a Faerie Might of only 20 would simulate the “Slave of the Ring” in the Tale of Aladdin or one of the lesser jinni initially called upon by Suleiman to fetch the throne of Balqis, Queen of Sheba.''
''Three Wishes?''
''Many captive Faerie jinn are compelled by their story to bargain or create a contract with their rescuer. Typically, such jinn offer three wishes, within their power, using their Binding Oath Ritual Power. The price of the compact is usually the promise of release from further imprisonment once service has been rendered. Breaking the contract inflicts a''
''Major Flaw. Depending on how carefully the party promising release has couched the terms of the contract, this Flaw may either allow the ‘afrit to angrily depart, cursing its arrogant rescuer with a poor reputation (Faerie Antipathy, Major) or to remain and torment the foolish knave until driven off (Plagued by Supernatural Entity). Those experienced in the bargains of jinn, possessing a Faerie Lore score of 6 or greater or one of the applicable summoning Arts or Accelerated Abilities at 11 or more, know to include the appropriate caveats to prevent the latter occurrence. These individuals are also aware of the correct formulae to command the released Faerie back into its prison, successfully ending the story safely. Of course, the knowledge of what to use the third and final wish for does not protect against the temptation of greed.''

|]
''emental affinity designed as an Autumn starting character using the rules from Realms of Power: Magic, but Magic jinn do not necessarily have to be balanced to be used in play. He could potentially be summoned and perhaps even controlled by an experienced sahir or Hermetic magus. As these spirits are bound to a landscape feature or compelled to a magical bargain, they are best designed as non-player characters or as challenges for the troupe, rather than companions in a conventional saga. This character can be used as a template for similar elemental jinn using the suggestions earlier and the rules for genii loci Magic Spirits as detailed in Realms of Power: Magic (pages 106–107) and ideas from the section on''
''elementals (pages 132–139). Note that his base Magic Might for character creation using the rules in Realms of Power: Magic is 35, although this as been increased to 40 using repeated purchase of the Improved Might Virtue. He differs in powers from many Faerie jinn in that his magic is primarily elemental rather than illusory and is greatly focused by the physical constraints of his narrow surroundings. Like many other pagan jinn he is supernaturally tethered to his physical locale and suffers a significant drop in power if separated from it — in his case, he is tied to the body of the Zab River and is reluctant even to step onto its banks. Alternatively this creature can be used''
''as the inspiration for a similar Faerie creature or an Infernal jinn related to the Order of Aerial Powers. A medium powered creature would have a Might of 20–25, being roughly comparable in power to a starting Hermetic magus, and could easily be aligned to Auram or Terram instead with some minor modification. Unlike most Magical spirits of similar magnitude, Ighraq al-Siq does not possess the Daimon Special Virtue, although he does possess a True Name like all jinn. If granted the Daimon Virtue, he can only be bargained with using Hermetic Theurgy and cannot be controlled or coerced using simpler magic (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 102).''

[|

==Baghl, an Earth Jinni==

''Magic Might: 15 (Terram) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int –2, Per +2, Pre +1, Com –1, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Jinn; Greater Immunity: Fire, Ways of the Mountains; Second Sight, Skinchanger, Strong-Willed, Tough; Greater Malediction (honor bargains made), Magical Air, Vulnerable Magic (mua’addhin’s call); Reclusive. Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Ruler of Earth), Greater Power x2 (Flesh to Stone, Presence); Improved Abilities x3, Lesser Power x2 (Donning the Corporeal Veil), Minor Virtue (Improved Characteristics). Personality Traits: Reclusive +5, Immutable +3, Proud +2 Combat: Maul (warhammer): Init –1, Attack +11, Defense +3, Damage +15 Soak: +10 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (stone), Athletics 3 (climbing), Great Weapon 4 (maul), Profession: Miner 3 (gemstones),''
''Second Sight 4 (jinn), Theology: Islam 3 (jinn). Powers: Flesh to Stone, 2 points, Init –4, Terram; Baghl can change any human he touches into stone until sunrise or until the morning call to prayer (Base 20, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; 3 Mastery points spent on reducing Might cost). Ruler of Earth, 1–3 points, Init 0, Terram; Duplicates any non-Ritual Perdo Terram or Rego Terram spell less than or equal to 15th level at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the effect. Incorporeal, 0 points, Init Constant, Mentem: Baghl is naturally both invisible and intangible, and cannot be influenced by the physical world. Magic can only directly target him if the caster can sense his existence. In this form he has no physical statistics or combat scores. Without taking a corporeal form, Baghl’s physical characteristics are only used when dealing with other incorporeal creatures. Donning the Corporeal Veil, 2 points, Init +1, Corpus: Baghl can form the physical body described under Appearance to house his spiritual form; when doing so he acquires the physical charac''
''teristics, size, combat statistics, and Wound levels listed earlier. His arms and armor are also created with this power. He cannot become fatigued. This body lasts until he decides he no longer needs it. Killing the body does not kill Baghl. Presence, 0 points, constant, Mentem: Baghl is aware of everything that goes on within his haunt. This power needs to Penetrate to perceive beings with a Magic Resistance. Vis: 1 pawn of Terram vis can be collected every year from his haunt, in the form of a quartz-encrusted stalactite at the back of his cave. If slain in physical form, his body yields 3 pawns of Terram vis. Appearance: Baghl is the jinni of a dark cave found in the Elbruz mountains that was once used as a quarry until he drove off the miners. He may be appeased mainly by being left alone to enjoy his beautiful cave formations, although he sometimes agrees to converse with theological scholars. He appears as an obese man with a mule’s head, pupilless eyes of jetblack stone, and quartz-veined limbs that heft an oversized maul. In physical form he can assume the shape of a large black mule.''

==The Buran of Yenghissar==

''This wild desert storm spirit, or buran, once plagued the small village of Yenghissar along the route to Khashgar, bringing devastation to the crops and herd animals every seven years. It is now bound by an Infernally-aligned sahir using the Goetic Art of Binding (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 117). A speechless, destructive force of fury incarnate, it rages to be released and constantly strives to create elemental havoc around the thoughtless sahir who has trapped it within his ancestral sword.''
''The Buran''
''Infernal Might: 25 (Auram) Order: Aerial Powers (Buran) Characteristics: Int –5, Per 0, Pre +3, Com -2, Str na, Sta na, Dex +3, Qik +6 Size: +4 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Jinni; Berserk, Strong-Willed, Wilderness Sense; Fury (Major) (when summoned), Greater Malediction (bound by bargains), Mute Personality Traits: Untameable +5 Reputations: Scourge of Yenghissar 2 (local) Hierarchy: 3 (storm demons) Combat: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit Soak: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit Wound Penalties: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit Abilities: Arabic 5 (understanding)*, Folk Ken 3 (travelers), Theology: Islam 3 (jinn), Survival 5 (desert), Taklamakan Lore 5 (legends), Wilderness Sense 2 (weather) * 	 Represents level of understanding as the spirit is Mute. Powers: Delusion of the Desert, 1 or 5 points, Init +3, Imaginem: This evil spirit can create illusions of a lost traveler’s compan''
''ions or a welcoming oasis, only to launch itself in fury at an unsuspecting victim. Alternatively it can create images of itself as a humanoid sandstorm with glowing fiery eyes in order to terrify its victims prior to their deaths. A minor illusion which affects an Individual amount of material (such as the demon itself) costs one point; a larger illusion which fills a room costs five points. These visions always have a flaw, however (they smell wrong, can only be seen by one target, etc.). Elemental Control of Wind ; variable points; Init +1; Auram: The buran has control over the winds of nature, which it uses to wreak destruction on the desert fringes. It may create any Creo, Muto, or Rego effect appropriate to Auram, at a cost of 1 Might Point per magnitude of effect. The demon cannot create any effect with a level greater than its Infernal Might, nor duplicate Ritual effects. Recalcitrance, 0 points, Init constant, Vim: Any attempt to control (but not destroy) the buran with any form of Supernatural Power (magical, Divine, or otherwise) treats the demon’s Might as if it were 150% its actual Might, or otherwise has its Ease Factor increased by 50%. For example, a Circular Ward Against Demons of 38th level is needed to stop this buran with Might 25. Weaknesses: Protected Group (individuals that invoke the Bismillah invocation) Vis: 5 pawns of Auram vis prava, left behind as black sand when dispersed. Appearance: Usually manifests as a giant shapeless vortex of raging black sand using its Auram powers. To those with Second Sight, a giant humanoid shadow can be discerned within the sandstorm.''
''Unlike many other corrupt jinn, the buran lacks the Coagulation and Obsession''
''powers common to most demons and is an insubstantial spirit, unable to affect the physical world except through its magic. It is an example of an Infernal storm spirit likely to be found in the Taklamakan Desert, although much stronger and less powerful creatures also exist (see Chapter 9: On the Silk Road). Many travelers’ tales tell of companions fallen behind who are tempted off the track by the illusions created by these demons. Those storm spirits aligned to the Magic realm may have very similar characteristics, although they lack the Recalcitrance power and the brutal malevolence of their demonic cousins. Similar spirits aligned to other elemental Forms can be represented with modifications to these statistics.''
''Story Seed: The Corruption of the West''
''European demons of Christian origin are becoming increasingly common in the Levant since the advent of the Crusades, but have yet to penetrate past the borders of Outremer. Apart from a handful of Jewish demons and Infernal entities from ancient Persian mythology, the vast majority of Infernal creatures in the Mythic Middle East are in fact Infernal jinn and thus susceptible to Sihr, as commonly practiced by the Order of Suleiman. All this will change as merchants, missionaries and Hermetic magi penetrate further east, bringing with them their own legacies of sin and corruption that may change the balance of mystical power in the Mythic Middle East. The Unholy Trinity (see Chapter 1: Saga and Introduction) are a group of demons drawing on western conceptions of Islam that may have a large role to play in increasing the number of non-jinn Infernal spirits of the Mythic Middle East.''

|]

==The Cradle & The Crescent Learning from Jinn==

''As creatures of embodied magical power, all jinn, regardless of Realm alignment, can act as sources of study, akin to the observation of magically occurring phenomena referred to by Hermetic magi as significatos (Covenants, page 101). Each individual jinni acts as the equivalent of a tractatus on a single appropriate Hermetic Form (typically an elemental Form for Magic jinn, Imaginem for Faerie jinn, and Vim for Infernal jinn), the Accelerated Ability Sihr and their aligned (Realm) Lore. The jinni does not teach the summoner, nor does it need to possess a score in the relevant Art or Ability, as it is the summoner’s observation of the Essential Nature of the jinni rather than the jinni’s knowledge that is the key. The summoner may only gain the benefit for one Ability or Art per season. To gain the benefits of study, a sahir or other summoner must coerce a jinni or jinniyya into service for a whole season. Such coercion may be in the form of a non-magical bargain, Sihr, Hermetic Rego magic with an appropriate duration, the non-Hermetic Goetic Art of Commanding, or the Hedge Art of Elemental Controlling (for Magic jinn associated with an elemental Form). Mundane threats able to be enforced by effective Rego or Perdo magic may be used to force an appropriate non-magical bargain, although the jinni will seek revenge on its enslaver. A jinni can only instruct its master once for each Ability or Art.''
''Source Quality of a Jinni: 3 x magnitude of Might''

==Corrupt Jinn==

''In Ars Magica terms, corrupt jinn include those terrestrial demons strongly aligned to Arab folklore and medieval Islamic culture found in Islamic lands. Many demonic-appearing jinn are actually dark Faerie creatures, who choose to accept or reject the Islamic faith as part of their role within stories involving humans. Making''
''the correct distinction between jinn of different Realm alignment can be difficult for even experienced sahir but once a jinni aligns with the Infernal, it has irrevocably transformed into a true demon. All Infernal jinn share the following Vulnerabilities in addition to the Virtues and Flaws noted earlier for all jinn: Bismillah Invocation and Iron. Most Infernal jinn similarly suffer from the Minor Flaw Vulnerable to Folk Tradition. Dark Faerie jinn have Virtues, Flaws and Powers similar to their pious jinn cousins detailed earlier. Infernal jinni counterparts to the following demons found in Realms of Power: the Infernal can be encountered throughout the Mythic Middle East: mazzikim, succubi and lesser evil spirits would be classed as shaitan, whereas many ‘afrit with close elemental ties are best represented by Aerial Powers or perhaps powerful False Gods with additional powers related to elemental control. Aside from their appearance and the modifications noted earlier, these jinn can be represented by the same statistics as their European cousins. Further details on demons are given in Realms of Power: The Infernal.''
''The Dangers of Distinction: Dark Faerie or Infernal?''
''The distinction between dark Faerie jinn and truly Infernal jinn can be difficult, as both types of creatures are commonly referred to as shaitan (“demon”) by the common folk of medieval Islam and are depicted as such in the various stories. Many Infernal jinn, including perhaps Iblis himself, were once dark Faeries and many Infernal jinn have dark Faerie counterparts who draw vitality from stories arising out of the activities usually ascribed to demons. In general, the actions of dark Faerie jinn are impersonal and instinctive. Such entities act in a way that may encourage humans to sin because it suits their role in their chosen story and they feed off the vitality created by such emotions as guilt, greed, cruelty and lust. As such, most dark Faerie jinn are Incognizant or only Narrowly Cognizant — they are''
''unable to change their roles, advance or evolve into other forms (see Realms of Power: Faerie for additional details). Infernal jinn, on the other hand, are those creatures who intentionally inspire humans to sin, manipulating them to make them fall. The distinction between a Highly Cognizant dark Faerie jinni and Infernal jinni is a difficult one — many such Faerie creatures quickly lose themselves to the forces of Iblis. The term “shaitan” confusingly refers to both types of creature and the ambiguity and danger this creates for sahir characters is intentional. The Sihr of a sahir will work on both types of creature, although the actual Realm Lore required for the ritual may be mistaken by the character, producing unexpected outcomes when the summoner fails her control attempt because a creature assumed to be a dark Faerie turns out to be Infernal.''

==Ghula, Faerie==

''These dark Faerie jinn may rise from, or impersonate, those who die of thirst in the desert. They seek virile and wealthy husbands. They drain the blood of their husbands as they sleep. Once sufficient vitality has been consumed, the ghula can have a baby. The baby appears to share the characteristics of the human parent, but it is a faerie, a ghula like its mother. Baby ghuls are born with teeth. The ghulas in a city sneak out of their houses while their husbands sleep. They gather in graveyards to feast, cavort and drain the blood from corpses. In most versions of their story, the husband of a ghula discovers these night meetings, and destroys the nest of ghuls, but cannot bring himself to kill his child. The young ghula grows to adulthood, and tyrannize the city, forcing the man who discovered the ghuls to flee. This old, sick, broken man lives near the town, warning travelers away, and reciting his role in his home’s downfall. In doing this, he spreads the fame of the ghuls, which gives them vitality. A related story says that ghulas are the ghosts of prostitutes, given solid form,''
''and that they are simpler in their predatory behavior. They merely eat the dead, and lacking fresh prey eat corpses. They use their wiles to lure men of weak faith to hidden places and have a power that causes sleep, allowing them to crush the heads of their victims with stones. Faerie ghula statistics first appeared in Realms of Power: Faerie, page 72.''

==Ghul, Infernal==

''An Infernal ghul (fem., ghula, pl., ghuls or ghilan) is a degenerate jinni, a corrupt and cannibalistic creature of the night. They are believed to be descendants of a depraved tribe of primitive jinn given over to the Infernal. Solitary by nature, they haunt cemeteries, garbage pits and slums preying on the weak or feeding off carrion. Hideous to behold, they often disguise themselves in heavy robes as lost travelers, women in distress, or kindly dervishes to waylay travelers with the aid of their pow''

[|

==Ghula, Faerie==

''Faerie Might: 20 Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +5, Com +1, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Jinn; 2 x Greater Faerie Powers, Infiltrator (Wealthy, orphaned merchant’s daughter); Ways of the Land (Desert); Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Feast of the Dead, Humanoid Faerie, 3 x Increased Faerie Might, Personal Faerie Powers; Narrowly Cognizant; Greater Malediction (when it enters a bargain, it is bound to the agreed terms unless its partner reneges first), Restricted Might (Major — daylight); Traditional Ward (Bismillah Invocation). Personality Traits: Demure/Ravenous +3 Combat: Claws: Init 0, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +5 Fangs: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +4 Soak: 0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20),''
''Dead (21+) Pretenses: Arabic 5 (seduction), Charm 6 (men), Brawl 6 (in dark areas), Stealth 9 (urban areas), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn). Powers: Cause Drowsiness: 2 points, Init –2, Corpus; Allows the ghula to cause a human it touches to fall asleep. 25 spell levels, ReCo (Base 4, +1 Touch Range, +4 Until Duration), 1 intricacy point spent on cost Illusionary Home: 0 points, Init –3, Imaginem; This comprehensive use of glamour makes a place look, sound, smell and feel like a suitable home for the role the faerie is playing. Within the altered space, the sense of taste is also affected. 40 spell levels, MuIm (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Constant, +3 Structure), 4 intricacy points spent on cost. Transform Into Human: 0 points, Init. 0, Animal; This power transforms the character between human and feasting form. Personal Power, 25 spell lev''
''els, MuCo(An) (Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 Size), 3 intricacy points spent on cost, 2 intricacy points spent on initiative) Equipment: Perfume, wardrobe Vis: 4 pawns Imaginem, rat skulls Appearance: Ghulas usually look like beautiful women. To attract husbands, ghulas pretend to be wealthy widows or orphans of good family, in need of husbands. Ghulas often pretend to be members of communities displaced by war, as it gives their story verisimilitude. The eyes and the insides of the mouths of Arabic ghulas are always green. Male Faerie ghuls exist, but are the servants of the ghulas, and rarely play the role of seducer. See later for an example of an Infernal male ghul.''
''Ghulas are not designed as player characters. The version represented here differs slightly from the European ghulas or lamiae originally presented in that she reflects the Arab conception of her as an evil jinniyya. Although a form of Faerie spirit, ghulas are locked in a physical manifestation.''

==Ghul, Infernal==

''Infernal Might: not more than 20 usually Order: Furies Weaknesses: Protected Group (individuals that invoke the Bismillah Invocation), Vulnerability (Iron) Abilities: Arabic 5 (deception), Brawl 6 (claws), Charm 4 (trust), Stealth 4 (urban areas), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn). Other Abilities depend on the individual ghul Powers: Berserker Rage, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: The demon can grant anyone (usually itself or its animal companions) the Berserk Virtue, which persists until the target calms down. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus or Animal: A ghul can change his physical form at will, to whatever human or animal form he desires. Most ghul are limited to changing form into one type of creature (any human female form, any bird form, any canine form, for example), but more powerful individuals have been known to adopt multiple shapes. The Size of the form is limited to whatever is natural for the species, so a human-sized ghul taking adult human form must be between Size –2 and +2. This transformation is not akin to a magical spell; it is a natural manipulation of the physical matter that makes up the demon’s body, and consequently Magic Resistance does not stop physical attacks from shapechanged ghul as there is no ongoing magical effect. Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: The ghul do not suffer from wound penalties, except on Defense totals. Restoration, 10 points, Init +0, Corpus: When a ghul uses this power, the next blow will heal the wound he suffered the last time he was hurt. Each use of this power is only good for one damaging blow. Appearance: A common ghul is a tall feral creature, hunched over with overlong arms ending in cruel iron''
''claws. It wears rags or rent robes stained with marrow, blood and dirt from the graves it digs up. More intelligent and magical examples appear more human but still have sharply angular features, prominently pointed or serrated teeth, and long curved nails.''
''This character guide is for an Infernal male version of the ghul and differs substantially from the similarly named female Faerie ghula earlier. Whereas the latter are female-appearing Faerie creatures that eat their spouses, these Infernal creatures act as primal destroyers and are found more commonly in male forms. The exact relationship between the two types of creature is unclear — Infernal ghul may have evolved from corrupt Faerie creatures or they may simply be different entities that appear to share similar forms and characteristics. Unlike members of dark Faeriealigned jinn tribes, this ghul is a true ‘’terrestrial demon’’ (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 28) and loosely belongs to the Order of Furies, sharing several of the traits and powers of that class of demons. Unlike most demons and other Infernal jinn, although a spiritual creature, an Infernal ghul cannot assume incorporeal form and does not possess the Coagulation power. This example lacks the Envisioning and Obsession powers of most common demons but other individuals may have these powers or additional deceptive powers or skills instead. Exceptional individuals exhibit additional magical abilities over rock and flesh (as Crafter/Master of Earth and/or Crafter/Master of Flesh), illusions, possession, or they have learned some of the magic of humans (Dowsing, Hex, Malefica, or otherwise represented by the equivalent of a Duplicate the Magi’s (Technique) power). The most dangerous and feared ghul are those who have gained power over other jinn by learning one of the summoning Arts — Sihr,''
''the Arts Fabulosa, or more commonly, the Goetic Arts of Commanding or of Spirit Summoning.''
''The Varied Guises of Iblis''
''At the troupe’s option, different versions of Iblis may exist simultaneously in a saga. In the guise of lesser faeries claiming his name, the character Iblis appears in a number of minor roles in the folklore of the Islamic lands. In some stories he may be the Islamic Devil or embody a great duke of the Deluders, while in other tales he is a powerful dark faerie monarch or a faerie opponent posing as a lesser demon. One such tale is that of “The Old Woman and the Devil”, where a very fallible Iblis is challenged by an old woman to show who is the craftier. The old woman tricks a merchant and his wife, but later undoes the harm she has caused, thus proving that “the devil is no match for an old woman.” This lesser Faerie Iblis can only destroy or create strife in the stories, but never undo evil or perform good deeds.''
''Story Seed: The Dark Sufis''
''You may wish to introduce into your saga a misguided Sufi tradition, made up of individuals who respect Iblis for his refusal to bow down to Adam, assuming that it was his love for Allah that motivated his decision not to bow to anyone but his God. Such heretical mystics could comprise a Misguided Infernal Tradition of unwitting diabolists similar to the Luciferans. The mystical powers of such Infernal Sufis could be reflected by the Favoured Abilities: Incantation, Effusion, Phantasm and Ceremony. (See Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 127–131). Posing as a holy man, a Dark Sufi may contact a Criamon character, seeking to lead the magus into corruption.''

|]
''ers of deception and mimicry. All ghuls can assume the form of at least one scavenger native to their area, dog, hyena, jackal or vulture, and excel at assuming the forms of humans to conceal their debased nature. They disdain weapons and hunt and fight with claw like nails and jagged teeth. Folklore tells that many ghuls, if wounded with a weapon but not killed outright with a single blow, will be healed when struck a second blow, making them dangerous opponents for lone victims.''

==Qareen==

''The Messenger of Allah said, ‘There is not one of you who does not have a jinni appointed to be his constant companion.’ They said, ‘And you too, O Messenger of Allah?’ He said, ‘Me too, but Allah has helped me and he has submitted, so that he only helps me to do good.’''
''— Ibn Mas’ood''
''And whosoever turns away blindly from the remembrance of the Most Gracious (Allah) (i.e., this Qur’an and adoration of Allah), We appoint for him a Shaitan (“Satan — devil — unruly — defiant”) to be a Qareen (a companion) to him.''
''— The Qur’an''
''Qareen is the Arabic name for a spirit believed to be assigned to an individual Muslim as a “constant companion” — a personal tempter, intent on enticing him to sin. According to the hadith, every human has a jinni appointed to accompany him through life and test him, tempting him away from the path of God. Considered part of the tribe of Shaitan, such qareen are dark Faerie creatures akin to the shedim demons of Judaism (Realms of Power: Infernal, page 57). Most characters are unaware of their qareen, but some have more irksome companions reflected by possession of Major Story Flaw Plagued by Supernatural Entity (Qareen), or possible the Minor Story Flaw Faerie Friend. Most of these jinn are playful and mischievous rather than corrupting and provoke stories of temptation, reflection and forbearance. Nearly all qareen belong to the Faerie Realm, but some''

[|

==A Typical Demonic Qareen==

''Most people are not aware of their qareen; the following creature is appropriate for those who have the Major Story Flaw Plagued by a Supernatural Entity (Qareen). These characters have qareen that they are consciously aware of, that they can see, and that actively try to cause them to stray from the path of good. Less obtrusive Infernal qareen may be reflected by either the Impious Friend or Manufactured Ignorance Flaw, and have Might scores in the range of 5 to 10. An affected individual hears whispers from his qareen, using its Envisioning Power, and such comments appear to come from the victim’s own head (and should be provided as advice from the storyguide with nary a mention of a demon involved).''
''Order: Tempters (Shaitan / Qareen) Infernal Might: usually 15 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +2, +3, Str na, Sta na, Dex na, Qik +2 Weakness: Protected Group (victims who willingly and totally reject the qareen, fueling the rejection with a Faith Point), common jinni Weaknesses (see later). Abilities: Vary for individual qareen and may complement those of its companion. In general, a qareen may have up to 300 XP of Abilities that it may use to aid or hinder its chosen human. Powers: Apparition, 1 point, Init 0, Imaginem; Qareen may assume an illusory form that only their companion can perceive. To the victims, the form appears to be a real person in all respects. Control Human, 2 points, Init +2, Mentem; If this power penetrates, the qareen exerts direct control over its companion. It can issue commands that the target carries out to the best of his abilities. However, the target can attempt to break the control of the jinni every time he is asked to''
''do something contrary to the tenets of his faith. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init +2, Mentem; This Power allows the qareen to appear in the dreams of its sleeping companion (in which case it costs 1 point), or make the target experience a waking dream or vision (in which case it costs 5 points). The qareen cannot instantly make substantial changes to a dream, but instead gradually twists it to take on a darker and more frightening tone, and can speak through any figure from the victim’s subconscious. A waking dream is more obvious; the victim suffers an immediate and powerful hallucination of whatever the demon desires. This may be so frightening that the victim is stunned for a round, and must make a Brave Personality roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or have an extreme reaction, such as retching, convulsions, or abject terror. This is the preferred way for a qareen to communicate with its chosen companion. Protection of the Appointed Companion, 0 points, Init +2, Mentem; The companion of a qareen cannot act directly against it without extreme provocation; it would be akin to attacking one’s own mother. The victim may be as angry as they like with the jinni, but actually physically opposing it requires a huge effort of will, and the expenditure of a Confidence point, which must be repeated every time the victim wants to renew his attacks. Appearance: A qareen is an incorporeal spirit, appearing to those with Second Sight or means to see the invisible as a pallid reflection of its chosen companion. To its victim, a qareen uses its powers to appear either pleasing or terrifying depending on its motivations and schemes. Unlike many other demons, it lacks the Coagulation power and cannot form a physical body.''

|]
''have become corrupted and have become aligned to the Infernal, transforming into true demons. There are no Divine or Magic Realm aligned qareen. Each of these companion spirits has slightly different powers but shares the typical Weaknesses of jinn (detailed earlier). Examples of the powers of an Infernal qareen are given later — Faerie qareen have almost identical base powers, only a differing Realm alignment and motivation for testing their chosen victim. Unlike many other jinn, a qareen cannot assume physical form as they either lack the Coagulation power of most demons or the Donning the Corporeal Veil power common to many faeries. Some qareen have additional powers — the qareen that accompanied the ancient Arabian kahin (pre-Islamic “seers”) are believed to possess the following powers or their Faerie equivalents: The Serpent’s Oracle, Trust of the Innocent and Forked Tongue of the Serpent — powers normally attributed to the Spirits of Deceit (See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38). A qareen is left powerless if its victim makes a concerted positive effort to throw off the malevolent jinni’s inﬂuence. This requires the spending of a point of Faith (perhaps a point of Faith acquired by repenting of the sins committed while influenced by the qareen). Confidence alone is not enough to shake off the influence of the companion shaitan, unlike the Jewish shedim. In effect a qareen is a special form of Infernal or Faerie genius loci with a locus linked to its assigned human companion allowing it to travel the world.''
''Wizards and Qareen''
''Islamic sahirs are keenly aware of qareen and many have the ability to perceive the true form of their accompanying tempter, either through Second Sight or their other magic. Most qareen accompanying wizards are malevolent, reflected by the Flaws detailed earlier. As jinn, they can be coerced with magic, bargained with and even imprisoned using the appropriate supernatural powers, but at the sahir’s own risk. See Chapter 3: The Order of Suleiman for further details on sahirs and their potential to form magical khadim bonds with qareen that allow them to boost their''
''Solomonic magic by drawing on the reluctant jinni’s Might. Qareen do not make the greatest candidates for the khadim bond but many young sahirs see the magical servitude as a means of making the most out of the pestering spirits.''

==Jinni Weaknesses==

''Bismi-llāhi ar-raḥmāni ar-raḥīmi! (In the name of God, Most Gracious, Most Merciful!) — The opening invocation common to all but one sura of the Qur’an''
''Faerie-aligned jinn possess a weakness to the Bismillah Invocation, reflected by their Traditional Ward Minor Flaw (Bismillah Invocation) and all Infernal jinn have an equivalent Vulnerability to this folk practice of “naming,” the invocation of God’s name that opens most chapters of the Qur’an. Faerie and Infernal jinn cannot act against an individual who has uttered this phrase before encountering the spirit, similar to the Protected Group Weakness of demons — none of their Supernatural Powers work on these individuals, and they can only defend themselves in combat if attacked (Realms of Power: The Infernal,''

[|

==Story Seed: A Pious Companion?==

''Rarely, an exceptionally pious character may be able to convince her dark Faerie qareen to accept the error of his ways and appear to submit to Islam. As all Faerie-aligned jinn, even Faerie members of the predominantly corrupt jinni tribes such as Shaitan, have been granted free choice, this is a potential long-term story option. Such benevolent qareen become the equivalent of highly cognizant Faerie guardians. Being pious jinn rather than true Divine spirits, their power is aligned to the Faerie Realm and not the Divine Realm, although they may be mistaken for guardian angels by the unwise. Infernal qareen, as they are true demons, do not have free choice and so cannot be redeemed.''
''Submitted Qareen''
''Major Supernatural Virtue Your Faerie qareen or accompanying jinni has submitted to Islam. Like a variant Ghostly Warder (ArM5 page 94) it can guide and assist you with its powers, but cannot provide general Magic Resistance, as it is not a creature of the Divine or Infernal realms. Such qareen can easily be designed using the Ghostly Warder (ArM5 page 193) or else created as Companion-level characters using the rules for creating Faerie Characters (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 43-63), typically possessing the following Virtues & Flaws: Faerie Speech, Highly Cognizant, Lesser Power x2 (Eidolon, Guide); Intangible Flesh, Negative Reaction.''

==Story Seed: An Unwanted Guest, and an Unexpected Invitation==

''Although Christian, Jewish, or pagan summoners native to Islamic lands may also possess a qareen, at the troupe’s discretion, a Hermetic magus may discover upon arriving in the Mythic Middle East that a Faerie qareen has attached itself to him, despite his status as an unbeliever. Magi with the Spirit Familiar or the Theurgic Spirit Familiar Mystery Virtues (The Mysteries: Revised Edition, pages''
''66–69, 81–82) can attempt to bind Infernal qareen as their spirit familiar but only magi with Faerie Magic can bind submitted qareen or dark Faerie qareen. Demonstration of power over a qareen is sufficient grounds for membership in the Order of Suleiman and the character may find himself the recipient of a cordial invitation to join a group of openminded sahirs.''

|]
''page 34). This protection has a conditional duration of Until (leaves immediate locale of the jinni or completes a specific action) or until the time of the next daily prayer, whichever is sooner. To pronounce the Bismillah correctly requires a poetic grasp of the language of the Qur’an, reflected by an Arabic score of 6 or more and a successful Com + Theology: Islam stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 6. The Bismillah can only be invoked prior to recognizing a jinni and is ineffective if the character is surprised by a jinni. Devout Muslims are instructed to utter this phrase before entering locales where jinn are believed to live such as ruins, lavatories, cemeteries, deserts, and caves, but only those with the required fluency in Arabic and a decent grasp of Islamic theology can actually benefit from this magical protection.''
''Other Folk Traditions That Ward against Jinn''
''Arab folklore abounds with additional folk remedies for jinni curses and powers. Many lesser jinn are affected by the Minor Flaw Vulnerable to Folk Tradition (see later) or suffer from the Vulnerable Magic (mu’addhin’s call) Major Flaw, their magic expiring at sunrise with the crow of a cockerel or with the morning call to prayer from the minaret of the local mosque. Muslim characters may use either the appropriate Realm Lore or their Theology: Islam score to try to dispel the malign effects of such jinni enchantments. Magic jinn are not so severely affected, but a properly worded invocation of the Qur’an can grant some protection against their powers. The following four suras of the Qur’an, known as the “Four Quls” (each begins with “Say:”) are effective wards against jinn and perhaps other spirits — each provides a +3 bonus if successfully recalled when invoking the Khawass alQur’an as a holy forebearer for the baraka Acknowledgement of Evil, Celestial Immunity, Expel Demons or Resist Temptation (See Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 103–105, for details of baraka). The four specific suras are: al-Mu’aumidhatayn (the al-Falaq (113th''
''sura) and an-Nas (114th / last sura) pairing), al-Kafraa (109th sura) and al-Ikhlaas (112th sura). The Ayat al-Qursi or “Throne Verse” (255th verse) of al-Baqarah (2nd sura) and the last two verses of the same sura are similarly potent wards against jinn. A Muslim character who has memorized and correctly recites 50 ayat (verses) of the Qur’an receives the same benefit. Each sura takes a considerable amount of time to recite and requires the individual to have memorized and the recall the specific verses using their Art of Memory or Theology: Islam score (see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, pages 25–26). Characters with an Arabic score of 6 or greater gain a +2 to their roll.''
''Jinn and Other Expressions of the Divine''
''Due to their strong cultural allegiances, all Faerie and Infernal jinn are vulnerable to other strong expressions of the Islamic faith. No such jinn can use their powers to affect a hajji, a Muslim who has completed the pilgrimage to Mecca within the last year (see Chapter 1: Introduction and Saga). A Muslim character who focuses his prayers through correct recital of a sura of the Qur’an and who successfully invokes God’s aid to defeat a jinni (See Realms of Power: The Divine, page 41) gains twice the usual bonus. Faerie jinn are strangely unaffected by other religious demonstrations — Christian, Jewish or Zoroastrian — whereas Infernal jinn as demons may be affected by such holy displays. Infernal jinn remain susceptible to the Scourging the Infernal power of relics but simple objects of faith have no special power over these creatures (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 33-34). Unless otherwise noted, Magic jinn are not susceptible to these restrictions but may suffer other flaws reflecting a vulnerability to the power of the Divine. Whether these vulnerabilities stem from the power granted to Suleiman over their ancestors or the apparent conversion of large numbers within the jinni tribes in recent times is unclear.''

==Lands of the Jinn==

''The following locations are particularly associated with the jinn.''

==Jinnistan==

''The jinn dwell in places just past the ken of humans — out of the corner of the eye, behind the doors impossibly squeezed between two seemingly normal houses, or just around the last corner of one of the alleys leading off the bazaar. They visit the mundane realm often but their real homes may lie underground, amid the beauty of the wilderness, within dark ruins or even beyond the mundane realm in regiones and the Supernatural Realms. All these locales are collectively referred to as Jinnistan. Judging from the tales, although it may once have been part of the Magic Realm, Jinnistan may now lie mainly in the Realm of Arcadia, but seems to have branched into the Realm of Eudokia and perhaps even into parts of Hell. Its geography is as varied as the mundane realm and its inhabitants pursue lives similar to their non-magical brethren of the Mythic Middle East, often passing freely between their magical homeland and their mundane neighborhood. Whole cities of jinn, such as Amerabad, the City of Amber, are found within its fluid borders and parts of other lost and legendary cities such as Golden Baghdad (see Chapter 7: Mythic Mesopotamia) and Khashgar, the nexus of the fabled Silk Route (see Chapter 9: On the Silk Road), form a background for many of the tales involving jinn. Some travelers claim that Jinnistan can be reached by traveling beyond the Great Rivers, the eastern mountains or sailing beyond the edge of the ocean. These claims are all true, but false all the same. Where there are jinn, there is Jinnistan.''
''The Mountains of Qaf''
''Muslim folklore describes this chain of peaks encircling the known lands, forming a barrier between the lands of the humans and the supernatural homes of the jinn. Impassable, foreboding, and purportedly emerald green in color, mundane geographers have attempted to place this mythical site variously in the Caucasus, the Pamir, the Paropamisadae and even the distant Urals or the Atlas Mountains of North Africa. Classical scholars equate this range with the legendary Mount Imeon or the Caucasus Indicus of the Greeks — the great eastern barrier of the world of Alexander the Great (see Chapter 9: On the Silk Road). Perhaps the Qaf are not one mountain chain but are the Essential mountain range, the embodiment of the concept of mountains within the Magic Realm, past which lie whole different worlds. Alternatively, they may be the Faerie Realm’s distillation of all the tales of impassable mountains told since antiquity.''
''Al-Khadar''
''Outside the circle of the known world, past the pale blue waters that line the coast of Persia and beyond the trade waters of the Erythraean Sea, lies the great ocean of Al-Khadar (“the Green”), a magical and metaphorical barrier breached only by jinn, adventurers, sorcerers, and Islamic saints. Few claim to have traveled to its distant shores or floating islands laden with human-headed trees and intelligent apes. Those who claim to have returned report their ordeals in allegory and lies, such as in the travels of Sinbad the Sailor. Islamic cosmology speaks of whole worlds beyond that which contains Mythic Europe and the Mythic Middle East — worlds inhabited by fearsome angels, strange humans, exotic jinn and even more alien beings. Hermetic scholars of the Keeper of Tales mystery cult suggest that these lands lie within the Faerie realm of Eudokia. Criamon magi point to “The Tale of Buluqya” as a possible itinerary for magi''
''wishing to travel into the mysterious Magic Realm, claiming its metaphorical tone contains a pathway that leads outside the Circle of Time.''

==Mortal Scions of the Jinn==

''An exotic Merinita maga, Arabian Ex Miscellanea magus or hedge wizard hailing from the Mythic Middle East possessing a jinni variant of Faerie Blood or Strong Faerie Blood (see later) may make an interesting character to play in an Arabian saga. Designed with a suite of accompanying themed powers, such a character may also be played as an exotic outsider in a game set in western Europe. Such characters may possess only a jinni-themed Faerie background or may have a whole collection of Benedictions and other powers ruled by Charms with a jinni flavor. All the Virtues and Flaws used in the descriptions of Faerie jinn earlier could be suitable for such a strongly themed character. Such characters would be susceptible to Faerie Calling through Warping, unless specifically created as a Hermetic magus. In this case, they suffer Wizard’s Twilight instead. Further ideas and details on such jinni-themed Faerie touched characters can be adapted from Realms of Power: Faerie, Chapter 5: Touches of Faerie. The paragraphs later describe some optional jinni varieties of the Faerie Blood Virtue — adding new varieties to those found on page 42 of ArM5. The specific benefit of possessing Faerie Blood of each type is listed, along with the enhanced version for those characters that have the Faerie Legacy Virtue. Note that this enhanced effect replaces the normal benefit of Faerie Blood; it is not in addition to it. Each listing also has some typical Sympathies, and some suggestions for other Virtues and Flaws possessed by different faerie bloodlines. Finally, since characters with Strong Faerie Blood gain a distinctive appearance from that Virtue some common features are given; these could also be used for characters with regular Faerie Blood who also have the Disfigured Flaw. Further information on Faerie Blood, Faerie Legacy and Faerie Sympathies can''
''be found in Realms of Power: Faerie, Chapter 5: Touches of Faerie.''
''‘Afrit Blood''
''The ‘afrit are ranked among the more powerful of the jinn and many have monstrous oversized appearance and a cruel nature. Although not necessarily evil, they are often indifferent to humans or consider them inferior.''
''Benefits: +1 to Strength or Intelligence, but not to more than +3 Legacy: +1 bonus to Strength or Intelligence, can go as high as +4 Sympathies: Power, Cruelty, Patience (negative) Other Virtues and Flaws: Greater Benediction: Flight, Greater Immunity: Weapons (bludgeoning or piercing or slashing), Ways of the Desert; Frightful Presence, Huge, Large, Second Sight; Monstrous Appearance; Faerie Heritage, Susceptible to the Divine, Vulnerable to Folk Tradition (naming or Bismillah Invocation) Appearance: Tall or large in girth, often horned, reddish complexion''
''Ghula Blood''
''The ghulas are rapacious wasteland faeries of the Arab world. Sexual encounters between human men and female Faerie ghulas (see earlier) result in either another ghula (if the child is a girl) or ghul-blooded humans (if a boy is born). The sons of ghulas can then go on to produce either girls or boys with ghul blood. This variety of faerie blood could also represent other violent faerie ancestors. Those with ghul blood are nearly always sinister-looking, born with teeth and unusually aware of their surroundings. The template reflects a character descended from a Faerie ghula rather than the offspring of an Infernal ghul. Characters born of Infernal ghul may best be presented as Devil Children (see later).''
''Benefits: Claws that can be retracted and extended at will, these have the following weapon statistics: Init –1, Atk +2, Dfn +3, Dam +2.''
''Legacy: As earlier, except that the claws are extra large, and the Damage bonus is +4 rather than +2. Sympathies: Wastelands, Stalking, Compassion (negative) Other Virtues and Flaws: Ways of the Desert; Skinchanger (hyena or vulture); Nocturnal, Poor Presence Appearance: dark skin, wrinkled, sharp teeth, green on the inside of the mouth, always have green eyes.''
''Jann Blood''
''The jann are lesser Faerie jinn, members of a tribe that closely mimics human culture and behavior to the extent of following Islam, herding camels and living the nomadic lifestyle of Bedouin. As such, they are the most likely type of jinn to produce offspring with Faerie Blood or adopt foundlings into their tribe. Many Faerie sorcerers of Mythic Arabia are believed to''
''be scions of the jann and many beautiful women, including the legendary Balqis, Queen of Sheba, claim jann parentage.''
''Benefits: +1 to Presence, but not to more than +3 Legacy: +1 bonus to Presence, can go as high as +4 Sympathies: Deserts, Hospitality, Temperance (negative) Other Virtues and Flaws: Supernatural Beauty, Ways of the Desert; Faerie Speech, Persona, Second Sight, Skinchanger (camel, eagle); Envied Beauty; Disfigured (one animal feature), Dutybound (Bedouin honor), Susceptible to the Divine, Vulnerable to Folk Tradition (Naming) or Vulnerable Magic: Mu’addhin’s Call Appearance: Swarthy, deeply tanned, piercing blue eyes''

==Mythic Scions of the Jinn==

''Faerie jinn and characters descended from them are well-suited for use as player characters in sagas involving the Mythic Middle East. Such characters could be created as a companionor magus-level character using the balanced rules provided in Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 43–63, and incorporating the suggested inherent Pretenses and Required Virtues and Flaws noted in the sections earlier. Players wishing to create a character with ties to an elemental jinni aligned to the Magic Realm can design a Mythic Companion, using the Blood of Heroes Special Virtue from Houses of Hermes: True Lineages (or the Mythic Blood Virtue for Hermetic magi) or the Magic Blooded Virtue from Realms of Power: Magic, and choose appropriately-themed Virtues and Flaws. Some of the Elemental Virtues from Hedge Magic Revised Edition may be particularly appropriate for such characters. A Gifted Companion or Mythic Companion Character using the Spirit Votary Major Virtue from Realms of Power: Magic could similarly be used to represent a pagan priest devoted to an elemental jinni recognized as a pre-Islamic Arab divinity, perhaps even''
''claiming descent from such ancient gods. Mortal characters descended from Infernal jinn or truly demonic jinn are best represented by the rules for Devil Children, given in Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 99–101, and begin with the Devil Child Special Virtue, Demonic Blood and the following starting Virtues and Flaws: Second Sight, Susceptible to the Divine, and Greater Malediction (when he enters a bargain, he is bound to the agreed terms unless its partner reneges first) instead of the usual template listed. Examples of such characters include the whelps of Infernal ghul, children conceived by corrupt shaitan, or the grandchildren of Iblis himself. Repellent is a common Flaw, and some of the more powerful of these individuals have learned various Hedge Arts, including the Goetic Arts of Summoning and Commanding to enslave their pious jinni cousins. Player character jinn created with a Might Score are susceptible to summoning, dispelling and controlling spells that affect Vim rather than Mentem, regardless of Realm, although it should be noted that magi and mundane companions without Might can be equally affected by Corpus and Mentem magic that penetrates their Magic Resistance, if any.''

==Virtues and Flaws==

''This section includes several Virtues and Flaws first detailed in Realms of Power: Faerie that are appropriate for Faerie jinn and characters with strong jinni heritage''
''New and Modified Virtues''
''These virtues are appropriate for Faerie jinn characters.''
''External Vis Minor or Major Virtue, Supernatural The faerie’s spiritual essence (anchor) resides in one of the props traditional for its role, and this can be carried far from the faerie’s body without the faerie suffering ill effects. There is an Arcane Connection''
''between the object containing the faerie’s spiritual essence and the faerie’s body. If this connection is broken, or the object is destroyed, the faerie’s distant body disintegrates, but the essence can construct a new body, given sufficient time. If the vis in the prop is used, the faerie is permanently destroyed. When selected as a Major Virtue, the prop provides its bearer with any one Minor Virtue, selected at creation. This provides the faerie with a little additional power, but its main advantage is that humans who discover the object are far more likely to treasure it, and keep it safe. This provides the faerie with time to form a new physical body and reclaim his object. As an example, a faerie warrior with a Might of 20 uses his sword as his spiritual anchor. A character that defeats the warrior finds that the sword contains 4 pawns of vis, but also finds that the sword has no Encumbrance and grants a human wielder a +2 bonus on the Single Weapon Ability. The bonus comes from the faerie’s Grant Puissance power. If the human keeps the weapon, then eventually the faerie can generate a fresh body, and seek out the wielder and challenge him to a duel.''
''Faerie Sight Minor Virtue, Supernatural This Virtue, which works constantly at no cost to the faerie, is used in conjunction with the Awareness Pretense. It allows faeries to:''
''• Tell mundane things from glamorous''
''ones. (automatic success: no roll is required) • See the borders of glamour, so that''
''they know which faerie props and territories belong to (automatic success: no is roll required) • See Arcane Connections, so that they''
''know which objects belong to a human (automatic success) and which human (if human and object can be observed, automatic success.) • Read each other’s glamour. Faerie Lore''
''is a body of knowledge that humans learn through experience, so very few faeries have it. (Ease Factor = Might of other faerie/5). Faeries use this ability''
''to read each other’s glamour to guide their interactions, instead of using Faerie Lore. • See mundane things hidden by glamour (Ease Factor = 3 + (Might of Faerie causing the glamour – Might of the faerie attempting to see through the glamour)/5)''
''Faerie Speech Minor Virtue, Supernatural Many faeries have a Pretense called Faerie Speech that they use instead of acquiring human languages. Faeries seem to know the same languages as whomever they are talking to. If speaking to a group that has demonstrated mixed linguistic skills, the faerie may select which language to speak. This effect occurs whenever the faerie speaks and costs no Might. It is not magically resisted, because the effect only alters the behavior of the faerie. If the faerie has not heard a person from its audience speak, it may only use whichever language it last used with humans. Once its audience speaks the faerie may then converse in the correct language for its audience. Faerie Speech is frequently given to characters designed as NPCs. Characters designed for possible use by players have this Virtue more rarely, to free up a Virtue slot, but it is still appropriate for a wide variety of faeries.''
''Reputation as Confidence Minor Virtue, Supernatural Some faeries are forced, by their glamour, to live up to their Reputations. These faeries don’t have true Confidence, but pretend to have it to such a skilled degree that the distinction does not matter. A faerie with this Virtue gains a number of false Confidence points equal to its highest reputation, and may spend them, one at a time, on rolls that support any Reputation. The faerie regains these points when a human would regain Confidence. Highly Cognizant faeries may be aware of the link between their Reputation and their need to uphold that Reputation with Confidence; other faeries with this Virtue are not.''
''New and Modified Flaws''
''These flaws are designed by Ferie jinn characters.''
''Intangible Flesh Major Flaw, Supernatural The character is immaterial, and cannot physically influence the world. Characters with this Flaw should consider the Eidolon and Loosely Material powers.''
''Traditional Ward Minor Flaw, Supernatural If a taboo is selected as a Minor Flaw then the faerie may not touch a thing protected by the ward with its glamour. The faerie is likely uncomfortable in the presence of the ward, but is not compelled to flee. The faerie cannot regenerate Might points in the presence of a traditional ward. If forced to touch the ward the glamour holding the faerie’s body together begins to break down: their body begins to flake away. Prolonged contact with the ward destroys the body of the faerie by unpicking the glamour holding its body together. This may appear to humans as if the ward is burning the faerie. The damage to the faerie’s body can be simulated with the''
''Heat and Corrosion rules found on page 181 of ArM5. Assume that the object acts as a source of damage with an intensity of +6. If a faerie receives an Incapacitating wound from an item that is a Traditional Ward, then in addition to the usual effects of Incapacitating wounds (ArM5, page 178–179) the faerie cannot spend any further Might points. It can still activate powers with a zero cost. If the character has constant-effect powers with a nonzero cost, they expire at the next sunrise or sunset and cannot be reactivated until the character is no longer Incapacitated. The character may heal at a human rate, or may remove the injury with an appropriate story event.''
''Monstrous Appearance Major Flaw, General Something about the character looks strange and frightening to others, giving the character a –6 penalty in all social situations where its appearance is a factor.''
''Sovereign Ward Major Flaw, Supernatural If a taboo is selected as a Major Flaw the faerie may not harm a person or thing that is defended by the ward. “Harm” is defined very broadly in the faerie’s glamor. A faerie''
''that is vulnerable to religious symbols, for example, can not work around the symbol by putting mundane poison in the food of the wearer, or burning his house down around him. The person is completely safe from the faerie. The faerie must attempt to flee the ward, and its body is destroyed instantly by the ward’s touch.''
''Vulnerable to Folk Tradition (Islamic) Minor Flaw, Hermetic or Supernatural The being’s magic is susceptible to various folk-remedies for averting hostile spells. Any target that is aware that the creature has just used its magic may attempt a folk ritual, such as making a sign against evil, spitting, and so forth. This grants the target or targets a Magic Resistance equal to (5 x the target’s appropriate (Realm) Lore or Theology: Islam), or 0 if the target does have either of these Abilities, against the being’s magic only. Furthermore, someone with the appropriate (Realm) Lore or Theology: Islam may be able to devise a manner to break a lasting enchantment, such as plucking nine hairs from the tail of a cat and burning them in an enclosed room with a possessed victim; this typically requires an Intelligence + Ability roll against an Ease factor of (9 + the spell effect’s magnitude) or greater.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
