
[|

=The End of Time=

''Stand still, you ever-moving spheres of heaven, That time may cease and midnight never come.''
''Doctor Faustus: Act 5, Scene 1''
''The Order of Hermes has long wanted to extend their power to the lunar sphere and beyond, but few considered what might happen should that breakthrough come to pass. While magi through the centuries have idly dreamed of the wonders that they might perform and the knowledge they might gain, some within the Order worked quietly to achieve the unthinkable. Theirs was no quest for idle glory, nor even power over the world and its population; theirs is a plan born out of misplaced benevolence, ignorant of the risks; theirs is a plan to destroy the very workings of the cosmos itself, a plan to bring about the end of time and thereby save the world.''

==Precis==

''Heaven fashioned us of nothing, and we strive to bring ourselves to nothing''
''The Duchess of Malfi: Act 3, Scene 5''
''House Criamon, unassuming mystics of the Order of Hermes, have their own philosophy. Since the founding of their House its magi have sought to escape the eternity of life, turmoil, death, and rebirth. Early in the eleventh century the elders of the House formulated a plan; they would suspend the constant motion of the heavens and bring time itself to an end. That plan is nearly ended. However, they have made a fundamental error. Their plan to stop eternity is destined to fail. Their understanding of cosmology is flawed and instead of the motion of the heavens peacefully ending, the heavenly spheres are disrupted, the moon is destroyed, and an''
''apocalypse is visited upon the Earth. This chapter provides troupes with a series of stories through which the player characters become aware of House Criamon’s plan, giving them opportunities to stop them before the fateful day. Stopping House Criamon is by no means certain, and this chapter also describes the world as it falls into ruin. We also explore House Criamon’s Hermetic Breakthrough, the breaking of the Limit of the Lunar Sphere, and the new Form of Aether, the way that the apocalypse disrupts the Order’s grasp on magic, and also new research that the Order may undertake to help it survive.''

==The Invisible Enemy==

''No idle stargazers or mystics, at the core of House Criamon are members of a doomsday cult who intend to bring about the end of time. Their reasons are grounded in an unshakable philosophy and an understanding of the cosmos as a dreadful eternity. Their intention is to release the world and all its peoples from an endless cycle of suffering, death, and rebirth. What some might see as an abomination, those at the heart of House Criamon see as a just and merciful release. The magi of House Criamon have not been acting alone, however. There are others across the Order who have wittingly or unwittingly helped the House prepare for the end. Most have no idea of the House’s ultimate aims. While the most significant cultists are described here, you should feel free to add to, modify, or relocate any of them as best suits your own saga. Each of the four refers back to the Biblical Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse, which are released at the breaking of the first''

==The Book of Revelation==

''This chapter uses the term apocalypse to describe the ultimate fate of the world at the hands of House Criamon, but this is not the Biblical Apocalypse as described in the Book of Revelation. The Bible anticipates the end of days when the forces of heaven and hell fight their final battle and those living must suffer judgment for their sins. This chapter on the other hand describes an act of grandiose magical hubris, and while that act lays waste to the world it is still an act born of human free will and not of predestined fate. That said, much of the symbolism found in this chapter harks back to the Book of Revelation. There are four principle members of House Criamon and they share aspects with the four horsemen of the apocalypse as described in the Bible; and one of their magical''
''sites is an observatory in the ocean with seven great lenses, reflecting the seven-headed beast that rises from the sea as described in Revelation. However, there is no direct correlation to the increasingly harrowing events of the Apocalypse as described in Revelation. The symbolism used here is borrowed from that work to provide a suggestion of the devastation to come if that fate is not avoided. Within the context of your game, you need to decide whether it is by chance that these associations make themselves apparent, or whether it is some Divine warning as to the direction of these events. Either way, we describe where these symbols are purposefully used so that you may highlight them in the telling of these stories.''

==Everything is a Lie==

''Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults explores House Criamon in great depth. This covers not only their organization as a House and the mystical paths that they follow but also their underlying cosmological understanding. The world of the Criamon is one of infinite recursion and of reincarnation. It is one of peace contrasted with strife, and acceptance balanced against resistance. What Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults does not explore is a House-wide plot to bring about the end of time. The plan to end all time was hatched in the decades that followed the Schism War and is known only to those who achieve a certain level of Enigmatic Wisdom. Numerous approaches were explored before it was ultimately decided to breach the Lunar Sphere. For generations, the knowledge was kept within the most senior of the House’s magi and their trusted researchers, but it has recently been filtering down throughout the House. The nearby table suggests the level of knowledge of the plan available at a given Enigmatic Wisdom or House Criamon Lore level.''
''Enigmatic Wisdom/Knowledge House Criamon Lore 5 The end of time shall be House Criamon’s gift to the cosmos. 6 House Criamon has been actively working to bring about the end of time. 7 House Criamon will cause the moon to stop in its rotations and time will end.''
''8 The world will escape all time with the coming conjunction on December 23rd in the year 1277.''
''In addition, when the final magical breakthrough has been made, magi of House Criamon are offered initiation into the secret new mysteries of the House when they reach Enigmatic Wisdom level 7; the very same magic to be used to bring about the end of time.''
''The Schism War and Other Calamities''
''The Schism War was neither the first nor the last event that demonstrated to House Criamon that the world had to escape the cycle of suffering within which it was trapped, but it was a decisive moment. The Sundering of House Tremere, the Schism War, the corruption of House Tytalus, the war with DamhanAllaidh soon after the founding of the Order, the crusades perpetrated by the mundanes; they all reinforce the belief that humanity is incapable of living through eternity without causing suffering without measure. The mystics of House Criamon were originally set a task: find evidence that the future holds an age of enlightenment. Despite years of intense scrying into portents and omens, and even research into magic able to directly see the future, they saw only''
''the recurrence of the suffering of the weak at the hands of the strong. Their theologians studied the great religions and even there they found suffering and resurrection into further suffering; any suggestion in those theological sources of peace at the end of all things was considered tenuous at best. With no hope on the horizon, a council convened in the deepest parts of the Cave of Twisting Shadows and decided the fate of the world.''
''The True Destiny of House Criamon''
''It is important to note that House Criamon has committed itself to this path not by some corruption of their beliefs but as a consequence of those beliefs. Its magi believe that Criamon the Founder wants them to release him from the duty he performs, namely holding open the path between the material realms and Twilight. As Criamon wanted to escape the suffering of the world, so his followers believe that all must follow him out of the world. They see it as a responsibility to release the world and its populace into the Hypostasis that sits outside of the universe. Bringing about the end of time is their means to this end.''

==Criamon Player Characters==

''Given that the plot spans House Criamon, filtering down through the ranks as the magi learn more Enigmatic Wisdom or house lore, it is inevitable that player Criamon will become involved at some point. Those recently out of apprenticeship are considered young and unreliable but the nearby table suggests the level of knowledge that they gain as their understanding increases. Their first responsibility is to send vis to the most senior Criamon in the Tribunal. This is likely to be a nominal amount, but may increase. They may then be asked to gather resources of the kind likely to support research. Examples might be water from a high or low tide, horoscopes for certain people, a woman''
''exhibiting madness, etc. Once they know that House Criamon is actively working to bring about the end of time, they may be called upon to either undertake specific research or to assist Andreva in a research project. Finally, they may be asked to undertake arrangements for the move to Megiddo, including building devices to be installed into a laboratory to aid with the development of ritual spells. The level of secrecy you apply to the character’s involvement with regard to the other players should be in keeping with your troupe’s play style.''

==Divine and Infernal Player Characters==

''Characters with Divine or Infernal patrons may gain additional insight into each event as it happens. It should be noted that the potential end of time is not the Biblical apocalypse; it is not God’s will. While God does not intervene, the creatures of Heaven and Hell understand the dangers. Any Divine or Infernal visions or premonitions concerning story events should point the character squarely at House Criamon.''

|]
''four seals of heaven that herald the end of days. The statistics below are a baseline; given that the story runs across a number of decades, it is not possible to provide statistics for each point in the story at which they might be encountered.''

==Brighde Bronach of House Criamon==

''Brighde Bronach is a follower of the Path of Strife, schooled by House Criamon to bear the most grievous of sins should the need arise. She is charged with protecting House Criamon’s research and the furtherance of their plans through Wizard War. Dispassionate and detached, Brighde has had cause to engage in war twice before, once against a member of her own House who discovered the plan before they were prepared for the burden. She covers herself with a magical salve of white clay designed to prevent the shedding of Arcane Connections, and with her white horse familiar and her bow talisman, fate identifies her as the White Horseman; the first of the four Horsemen to herald the Apocalypse and the first of the four heavenly seals to be broken.''

==Anaximander of House Verditius==

''Anaximander of Verditius is a senior figure in the Tribunal of Thebes, recently retired to the covenant of Ingasia on the island of Lemnos (The Sundered Eagle, page 86). Over a century in age, he is a noted member of a confraternity of Verditius magi who use their magic to enchant structures, such as towers and laboratories, on behalf of other magi. He has turned this power to the good of House Criamon, allowing large and powerful devices to be enchanted in the furtherance of their plans. An alchemist at heart, Anaximander yearns for knowledge of new elements and new magic that he knows must exist beyond the Earthly Sphere. This makes him a willing participant in House Criamon’s research to breach the Lunar Sphere, although he does not know their ultimate aim. As such, he is a potential weak link in House Criamon’s plan. Anaximander’s voting sigil is a staff bearing a red lion’s head at its top. He dresses exclusively in robes of deep red and travels in a chariot drawn by an iron horse that has been allowed to rust, giving it a blood-red character. These facets identify Anaximander as the Red Horseman, the second of the heavenly seals.''
''Agents''
''Anaximander has outlived a number of venditores but still supports agents in three Tribunals, including a Mercere Redcap in Hibernia called Luathan, an Augustan''
''monk in Provencal, and even a Radhanite merchant in Baghdad. His agents know of the great observatory (described below) and that it was commissioned by House Criamon, but do not know of its purpose. They are, however, likely to mention it in passing by example of Anaximander’s power and the kinds of services he can perform. His agents may be identified by the symbol of the red lion that they wear as a broach or clasp.''

==Quaesitor Beatritz of House Criamon==

''Quaesitor Beatritz is an itinerant maga. Nominally a member of the player characters’ home Tribunal, she maintains a sanctum in the Cave of Twisting Shadows in the Tribunal of the Greater Alps and relies upon the hospitality of that Tribunal for much of the year. She is scrupulously even-handed in the undertaking of her duties as Quaesitor and has been granted jurisdiction over matters pertaining to House Criamon. Her claim, that she alone can understand those of her House, has been accepted. Of course, this puts her in a position to protect those of her House should they ever need her. Beatritz dresses in modest black, as befits her role as Quaesitor, and she carries a tall staff from which hands a set of''

[|

==Brighde Bronach==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –1, Str 0, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 120 (90) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 9 (45) Confidence: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Flawless Magic, Attraction and Repulsion*, Enigmatic Magic Sensitivity*, Power of Destruction*; The Enigma**, Affinity with Penetration, Fast Caster, Puissant Penetration, Self-Confident, Skilled Parens, True Friend (Beathan); Blatant Gift, Deficient Technique (Intellego), Dark Secret (Part of the House Criamon Plot to End Time); Deficient Form (Ignem), Dispassionate, Higher Purpose (Eat sin on behalf of House) Initiations: The Avenue of Faith in Strife (Sin), The Avenue that Splinters, The Avenue of Charm and Scorn Personality Traits: Calculating +3, Diligent +2, Hedonistic –2 Reputations: Protector of House Criamon (Those who know of the plan) 5, Unclean (House Criamon) 4, Fearsome (Magi of Loch Leglean) 3, Fearsome (Magi of the Order) 1 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Short Bow: Init –1, Attack +13, Defense +11, Damage +6 Fist: Init +1, Attack +3, Defense +4, Damage +0 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 5 (astronomy), Awareness 3 (determining effect), Bows 1 (short bow), Brawl 3 (dodge), Concentration 4 (spell concentration), Enigmatic Wisdom 10 (interpreting signs), Finesse 6 (casting speed), Latin 4 (hermetic usage), Leadership 3 (intimidation), Magic Lore 4 (magical traditions), Magic Theory 10 (Corpus), Organization Lore: House Criamon 5 (initiating others), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (personalities), Parma Magica 5 (Mentem), Penetration''
''7+2 (Corpus), Philosophiae 3 (ritual magic), Ride 3 (battle), Scots Gaelic 5 (Highland), Whittling 4 (sympathetic charms) Arts: Cr 6, In 12, Mu 9, Pe 25, Re 25, An 10, Aq 6, Au 7, Co 25, He 5, Ig 8, Im 5, Me 7, Te 5, Vi 25 Twilight Scars: Clothes disintegrate after excessive spell-casting; Presence sours wine Equipment: The White Bow talisman Encumbrance: 1 (1) Appearance: Small and wizened, Brighde is a woman of apparently 90 years of age, which implies a degree of frailty. Though covered in the stigmata of her House, she is swathed in a white clay salve that covers her from head to foot. She wears barely anything; sandals to protect her feet and a slip to protect her modesty. Even these she does not own; she borrows them from a willing agent in order to prevent the accumulation of Arcane Connections. Spells Known: Convergence of Birth (InCo 10) +21, Mastery 1 (penetration) *** Touch of the Goose Feather (PeCo 5) +54, Mastery 1 (fast casting) The Wound that Weeps (PeCo 15) +54, Mastery 1 (multiple casting) Kiss of Aging (PeCo 20) +54, Mastery 1 (penetration) *** Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +35, Mastery 1 (penetration) Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude (MuCo 25) +38, Mastery 1 (penetration) Bane of the Decrepit Body (PeCo 25) +54, Mastery 1 (penetration) Befuddled Speaker (ReCo 5) +54, Mastery 1 (penetration) *** Curse of the Unruly Tongue (ReCo 5) +54, Mastery 1 (quick casting) Ward Against Heat and Flames (ReIg 25) +19, Mastery 1 (fast casting) Image Phantom (MuIm 20) +18, Mastery 1 (still casting) Loss of But a Moment’s Memory (PeMe 15) +36, Mastery 1 (penetration) Fading Star of Evening (CrVi 15) +35, Mastery 1 (multiple casting) *** Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 15) +38, Mastery 1 (imperturbable casting) Paralysis of the Gift (PeVi 20) +55, Mastery 2 (magic resistance, penetration) *** Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 15) +54,''
''Mastery 1 (penetration) Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 20) +63, Mastery 1 (stalwart casting) Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 20) +54, Mastery 1 (ceremonial casting) Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 25) +55, Mastery 2 (magic resistance, penetration)''
''Given her Initiations and great age, Brighde has more Virtues and Flaws than a character constructed with the usual limits does.''
''* Gained through Initiation ** House Virtue *** See Hermetic Projects, Chapter Five''
''Tactics''
''Brighde never enters a foreign Aegis of the Hearth without first being granted a token associated with that Aegis. When prosecuting Wizard War, Brighde prefers to plan seasons ahead, usually from within her own Aegis of the Hearth. She studies her target, learning her habits; when she is likely to be outside of her covenant or Aegis and with whom they engage in correspondence. She uses agents to do this rather than involve herself in the details. She attempts to retrieve an Arcane Connection of some kind, however slight, which she immediately fixes. She uses her Craft Ability to carve a symbolic representation of the individual to aid with increasing Penetration, which is also bolstered by divining their horoscope. With the tools assembled and not before, Brighde offers the mandated warning. At the commencement of the war, she wards herself with some simple spells and then opens an Intangible Tunnel to her victim, increasing the Penetration as far as she can through the use of vis to boost her Casting Total. Her favored means of assault is to diminish the target’s ability to use The Gift and then to inflict terrible Warping and aging. These are wounds from which it is impossible to recover.''

==Brighde Bronach (Cont’d)==

''The White Salve''
''PeCo 15 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual This salve of white clay destroys skin flakes and hair that falls or is brushed from the individual in order to prevent the easy acquisition of Arcane Connections to the bearer of the salve. The salve is applied all over the body as where it is not the skin and hair is vulnerable to shedding. The salve fades only at the end of the duration, at which point a new dose must be reapplied. Brighde wears the salve, on average, for less than half the year. This is a charged device and Brighde has a steady supply created for her by House Criamon. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''Talisman: The White Bow''
''Opening the Intangible Tunnel Pen +30, 6/day ReVi 53 R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Individual As per the spell described in ArM5, page 162. Allows spells of up to level 30 to be cast through the connection. The Penetration is a little low for use against opponents of great power, but the device is useful against mundanes and minor powers. (Effect: Base +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration, +3 6/day, +15 for +30 Penetration) The Fetid Arrow Pen +30, 2/day PeCo 41 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Cast through the Intangible Tunnel, this effect causes the target to contract''
''Febris Semitertiana, which becomes apparent after a week. The disease is debilitating, causing fever, rash, and crippling abdominal pain. This spell uses the Perdo Corpus guidelines from Art & Academe, page 57 and the disease rules from page 45 of that supplement. (Effect: Base 20, +1 Touch; Modifications: +1 2/day, +15 for +30 Penetration)''
''Beathan, the Seven-league Destrier''
''Brighde traveled far to find her familiar, Beathan, having found no such beast in her home Tribunal. Magic Might: 8 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –4, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +3 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Ferocity (when ridden in battle), Improved Characteristics, Long-Winded, Proud (minor), True Friend (Brighde) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Gift of Speech, Greater Power, Improved Abilities, Improved Might, Improved Power (The Long Road Made Shorter), Minor Virtue (x3) (Improved Characteristics, Tough, Unaffected by The Gift) Qualities: Domesticated, Fast Runner, Herd Animal, Imposing Appearance, Tireless Familiar Cords: Gold +2, Silver +1, Bronze +1 Personality Traits: Loyal +2, Taciturn +2, Brave +1 Reputations: Aggressive (local) 1 Combat:''
''Hooves: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +7 Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17– 24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Area Lore: Tribunal 3 (Covenants), Artes Liberales 1 (rhetoric), Athletics 5 (balancing), Awareness 3 (ambushes), Brawl 5 (hooves), Folk Ken 1 (magi), Latin 4 (Hermetic), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (magi), Profession: Mount 4 (courier), Stealth 3 (moving quietly), Survival 3 (woods) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a destrier’s kick are Init +2, Atk +2, Def +2, Dam +1. Powers: The Long Road Made Shorter, 0 points, Init –6, Animal (R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group) Beathan may transport himself and anyone touching him to a point up to seven leagues away which he can see. Level 50 effect (Base ReAn 30, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 Co requisite), Greater Power (45 levels, cost –1) Equipment: comfortable harness, ornate and expensively tooled saddle Vis: 2 Animal, in head. Appearance: Beathan is a heavy war horse standing over 16 hands high at the withers. His neck is thick and heavy with a graceful curve and his chest is broad and deep. He has a white coat, turning grey and black around the nose and mouth.''
''Those traveling with Beathan when he uses his Long Road Made Shorter power experience the full distance of the journey made shorter rather than simply appearing in the target location.''

|]
''balances. She rides a large black horse, magically trained to ignore the effects of The Gift. Her colors, her mount, and the balances she carries identifies her as the Third Horseman; the third of the seven seals of heaven.''
''Agents''
''As a Quaesitor, Beatritz may draw upon a number of resources, first from her House, second from the Tribunal itself, and last from House Guernicus, which is inclined to support Quaesitors no matter their House. Her word is trusted, so those inclined to follow Quaesitors, such as Hoplites, junior members of House Guernicus, and similarminded magi, may undertake tasks on her behalf with few questions.''

==Andreva of House Criamon==

''Andreva lives not too far from the player magi, but most within the Tribunal consider her too vague and ambiguous to be of any importance. They could not be more wrong. She is House Criamon’s most gifted researcher and she has guided much of its research over the last seventy years. Her pallid complexion and the pale green in which she dresses identifies her as the Fourth Horseman, the pale rider, and the bringer of death. When traveling, she most often takes the form of a pale horse thanks to one of her favored spells. Her birth represented the breaking of the fourth seal of heaven.''

==Advancing the Antagonists==

''The antagonists described above are presented before the major breakthrough that House Criamon will use to seize control of the moon and end time. Once the breakthrough has been made, Andreva gains the new Aetheric Magic Virtue and its associated new Hermetic Form of Aether at a score of 13. This Virtue is then Initiated out to members of House Criamon and their willing allies, Anaximander of Verditius included. This grants the new Form of Aether but at a score of zero.''

[|

==Anaximander of House Verditius==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 110 (67) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 8 (20) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Verditius Magic*; Major Philosophic Alchemy; Affinity with Goldsmith, Affinity with Magic Theory, Dwarf Blood, Puissant Goldsmith; Ambitious, Weak Spontaneous Magic Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Practical +2, Believe the Criamon are Dangerous –1 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +1, Defense +0, Damage –1 Kick: Init –2, Attack +1, Defense –1, Damage +2 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 5 (astronomy), Awareness 3 (determining effect), Brawl 1 (dodge), Carouse 2 (staying sober), Charm 2 (being witty), Code of Hermes 3 (political intrigue), Concentration 4 (lab work), Finesse 5''
''(precision), Goldsmith 13+3 (devices for enchantment), Greek 5 (poetry), Guile 3 (concerning cult activities), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 4 (laboratory work), Magic Lore 2 (regiones), Magic Theory 12 (extracting vis), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (personalities), Organization Lore: Verditius Cult 5 (initiating others), Parma Magica 4 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Ignem), Philosophiae 5 (metaphysics) Arts: Cr 18, In 9, Mu 10, Pe 10, Re 10, An 15, Aq 9, Au 7, Co 10, He 8, Ig 8, Im 9, Me 10, Te 10, Vi 18 Sigil: Vis is subtly drawn toward Anaximander’s magical effects. Twilight: His blood carries flakes of gold through it Equipment: Casting tools (see below) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Short and broad, with bold rounded features. His eyes are light and clear and his hair still red despite his obvious age. Spells Known: Eyes of the Cat (MuCo(An) 5) +20 Conjuring the Mystic Tower (CrTe 35) +38 Fist of Shattering (PeTe 10) +20 The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +20 The Wound that Weeps (PeCo 15) +20 The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35) +20 Heat of the Searing Forge (CrIg 10) +26 Pilum of Fire (CrIg 20) +26 Words of the Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10) +28''
''Sight of the Transparent Motive (InMe 10) +19 Shell of False Determinations (CrVi 40) +46 Shell of Opaque Mysteries (CrVi 40) +46 Sense the Nature of Vis (InVi 5) +27 The Invisible Eye Revealed (InVi 20) +27 Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20) +27 Sense of the Lingering Magic (InVi 30) +27 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 10) +28 Shroud Magic (MuVi 20) +28 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 15) +28 Disenchant (PeVi 30) +38 Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 15) +28 Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 20) +38 * House Virtue The above statistics account for the majority of the available experience points for a magus of his age. The remainder have been spent in many years worth of laboratory work, some in service to House Criamon where he has built numerous devices installed in Criamon laboratories across Mythic Europe. He has access to a vast array of laboratory texts, by himself and various colleagues through the years.''
''Casting Tools''
''Anaximander’s casting tools are the same he uses for his smithing work and include numerous small hammers, pliers, tongs, rasps, files, and snips. When casting, these must be used upon a piece of silver or gold secured in a hand-held vice and strung from a loop upon his belt. The tools are not enchanted.''

|]
''The Death of an Antagonist''
''The death of one of the four primary antagonists is not necessarily the end of House Criamon’s plan. The House will look for alternatives to carry on the work. Anaximander is easy to replace as his involvement is simply in building an observatory. Brighde can be replaced by the hiring of Hermetic mercenaries skilled in combative arts willing to serve for payment. If Andreva is removed then others from the House will be recruited to fill her place.''
''The rate of progress may slow, but unless the plan is revealed in its entirety, the House continues.''

==Cosmology==

''The cosmos is arranged in a progression of celestial spheres, with the Earth at the center and each successive sphere fully enclosing all those before it. Each sphere turns independently, accounting for the motion of the sun, the moon, the planets, and even the furthest stars against the sky. From the center, the first spheres are earth, water, air, and fire. These are considered the elemental spheres and represent the matter over which Hermetic magic has power. Then follows the moon, or Lunar sphere, the Sun, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and then Saturn. The final sphere is that of the fixed stars. These are considered to be the ethereal spheres and they fall so far outside of Hermetic Magic Theory that directly affecting each sphere requires its own Hermetic breakthrough. Each of these ethereal spheres is composed of aether. Unlike terrestrial matter, which moves in straight lines, aether moves in circles; thus the rotation of the stars. Aether possesses no known mundane qualities and can be considered neither hot, nor cold, wet, nor dry. It is also incapable of natural change. Aether does have variations in density however, and the planets and stars are made from dense aether, making them visible within the more subtle aether of the spheres. While aether can exist within different states, once in a state it cannot change. It is this incapacity for natural change that''

[|

==Quaesitor Beatritz==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 105 (70) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 8 (30) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; The Enigma*, Flexible Formulaic Magic, Hermetic Prestige, Quiet Magic, Subtle Magic, Inspirational, Piercing Gaze; Dark Secret (Part of the House Criamon Plot to End Time), Painful Magic; Driven (Bring about the end of time), Susceptibility to Divine Power Personality Traits: Analytical +3, Political +2, Unforgiving +1 Reputations: Quaesitor (The Order) 3, Even-Handed (Provencal Tribunal) 3 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack –1, Defense +0, Damage –1 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Provencal Tribunal 4 (politics), Artes Liberales 4 (rhetoric), Awareness 3 (determining effect), Bargain 4 (reaching compromise), Carouse 2 (staying sober), Civil and Canon Law 4 (Provencal Tribunal), Code of Hermes 7 (Tribunal procedures), Concentration 4 (reading), Dominion Lore 2 (saints), Enigmatic Wisdom 8 (Twilight), Etiquette 3 (court), Faerie Lore 2 (faerie mounds), Finesse 3 (casting speed), Folk Ken 3 (magi), Guile 3 (lying to authority), Infernal Lore 2 (curses), Intrigue 5 (plotting), Latin 5 (hermetic usage), Leadership 3 (magi), Magic Lore 2 (regiones), Magic Theory 7 (inventing spells), Occitan 5 (prose), Organization Lore: House Criamon Lore 5 (initiating others), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 5 (politics), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 2 (Vim), Philosophiae 2 (ritual magic), Ride 3 (speed), Teaching 1 (Code of Hermes) Arts: Cr 11, In 15, Mu 15, Pe 15, Re 15, An''
''11, Aq 9, Au 9, Co 14, He 8, Ig 11, Im 13, Me 15, Te 9, Vi 14 Equipment: Always carries a staff and her mundane attendants normally carry several slim volumes on the Tribunal’s peripheral code. Usually carries a rook each of Mentem and Vim vis. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Modestly dressed in a simple black gown and wimple and carrying a tall staff from which a silver balances hangs. Appearing around 70, her eyes are hooded and her lips are always pursed. Spells Known: Opening the Tome of the Animal’s Mind (InAn 25) +26 Touch of the Pearls (InAq 5) +24 Revealed Flaws of Mortal Flesh (InCo 10) +29 The Inexorable Search (InCo 20) +30, Mastery 1 (penetration) The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35) +29 Peering into the Mortal Mind (InMe 30) +30 Perception of the Conflicting Motives (InMe 15) +30 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20) +30 Pilum of Fire (CrIg 20) +22 Prying Eyes (InIm 5) +28 Discern the Images of Truth and Falsehood (InIm) +28 Trust of Childlike Faith (PeMe 10) +30 Calm the Motion of the Heart (PeMe 15) +30 Loss of But a Moment’s Memory (PeMe 15) +30 Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20) +30 Impression of the Faded Sigil (InVi 30) +29 The Invisible Eye Revealed (InVi) +29 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 20) +29 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 10) +29 Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 20) +29''
''Given her knowledge of the House and of Enigmatic Wisdom, Beatritz knows of, supports, and protects the secrecy of the plot to end time.''

|]
''puts aether beyond the understanding of Hermetic Magic. Lacking qualities, aether does not produce species, which hides its shape, but aether does shine and it does shed light. A thing made of aether appears as a shadowy hole surrounded by an aura of light. Such things do not cast a shadow of their own but they do illuminate nearby objects like a mundane light does. This light could be fierce like the sun, or gentle like the moon, depending on the density of the aether and the size it has aggregated into. Hermetic magic can, however, affect each of the elemental spheres, which includes instantaneous travel to a point within those spheres, assuming the magus had a suitable Arcane Connection or other means of affecting his target. As the lunar sphere is the first of the ethereal spheres, it cannot be affected by Hermetic magic and represents the boundary between the known and the unknown. These mechanisms are entirely separate from the supernatural realms in the same way that''
''the workings of the spirit and the soul are separate from the workings of the body. The spheres do, however, have links between their motions. The motion of the heavens can be likened to the movement of a water mill, with the motion of the water driving the wheel, which drives a shaft, which turns a cog, which turns another and so on. In the case of the ethereal spheres this interconnected nature is exactly what House Criamon intends to leverage; by disrupting the motion of the lunar sphere the entire working of the heavens can be halted, bringing time and eternity to an end. See Art & Academe for a more detailed discussion of the cosmos.''

==The Axis Mundi==

''The domus magna of House Criamon, The Cave of Twisting Shadows in the Tribunal of the Greater Alps, is built upon the Axis Magica. This is the central point''
''around which the supernatural realms turn. This is different and distinct from the Axis Mundi, which is the point around which the cosmos turns. House Criamon is intent on controlling both of these powerful nexus points. The term Axis Mundi, the center of the world, has many meanings. It may mean the point about which the world turns, the point where the four cardinal directions meet, or the point where heaven and earth touch. Different cultures across Mythic Europe have their own vision of the Axis Mundi. To the Norse, Yggdrasil the World Tree spans heaven and earth, and for the ancient Greeks Mount Olympus served a similar role. Judeo-Christian tradition has numerous references that all feed into an understanding of the Axis Mundi, from Jacob’s Ladder, to the Tree of Knowledge, to the Garden of Eden itself. Each represents a point within the Earth with heightened cosmological significance. In keeping with this, there are many mystical Axes Mundi across Mythic Europe. Some have an obvious focus, such''

[|

==Andreva of House Criamon==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 95 (70) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 9 (35) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Affinity with Magic Theory, Cautious Sorcerer, Inventive Genius, Minor Magical Focus (the moon), Puissant Magic Theory, The Enigma*; Dark Secret (Part of the House Criamon Plot to End Time), Driven (Bring about the end of time); Slow Caster Personality Traits: Driven +3, Impatient +2, Dismissive +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +0 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 4 (ritual magic), Awareness 2 (determining effect), Code of Hermes 1 (Tribunal procedures), Concentration 5 (lab work), Dominion Lore''
''2 (angels), Enigmatic Wisdom 9 (philosophy), Faerie Lore 3 (faerie forests), Finesse 3 (precision), Guile 4 (concealing House Criamon’s plans), Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Latin 5 (hermetic usage), Leadership 4 (laboratory work), Magic Lore 1 (magical traditions), Magic Theory 10+2 (research), Occitan 5 (expansive vocabulary), Organization Lore: House Criamon 7 (Initiating others), Parma Magica 3 (Vim), Penetration 3 (Mentem), Philosophiae 5 (ritual magic) Arts: Cr 15, In 17, Mu 12, Pe 15, Re 18, An 7, Aq 6, Au 7, Co 12, He 6, Ig 16, Im 5, Me 7, Te 5, Vi 20 Equipment: Rarely found outside her laboratory, Andreva carries little with her. If outside, she carries writing implements, ink, parchment, bottles in which to capture samples, and several pawns of vis of varying Arts. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A thin woman appearing around 70 years of age, modestly if untidily dressed. She has pale skin and her strained eyes have a yellow tinge to them. The stigma and tattoos of her House are clear across her hands, arm, neck, and face. Once she makes the breakthrough''
''she is working on, the tattoos on her face disappear, replaced by a single stylized representation of the moon.''
''Spells Known: Shape of the Pale Horse (MuCo(An) 25) +19 Moonbeam (CrIg 3) +31 Heat of the Searing Forge (CrIg 10) +31 Pilum of Fire (CrIg 20) +31 Words of the Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10) +22 Shadows of the Fires Past (InIg 15) +33 Tales of the Ashes (InIg 5) +33 Eyes of the Eons (InTe 10) +22 Unseen Arm (ReTe 5) +23 The Phantom Gift (CrVi 15) +35 Scales of the Magical Weight (InVi 5) +37 Sense of Magical Power (InVi 2) +37 Sense the Nature of Vis (InVi 5) +37 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 20) +32 Masking the Odor of Magic (PeVi 20) +35 Disenchant (PeVi 20) +46 Original Research and Integration Effects: Know the Quality of the Man (InCo 35) +29 * The Mania of Others (ReMe 30) +25 * Observe the Color of the (Lunar) Sphere (InVi 50) +37 *''
''* Described later''

|]
''as Mount Olympus, while others may go unnoticed with nothing to suggest its cosmic importance. It is one such place that House Criamon have selected as their Axis Mundi: the lost city of Megiddo in the Levant. Time and the sands have conspired to bury most of the city of Megiddo and there is little left of the city on the surface: just a few dusty ruins that provide occasional shelter to pilgrims, shepherds, and bandits. However, beneath the dust and sand, House Criamon have cleared out a series of tunnels and chambers, which they use as libraries and laboratories. This network surrounds a buried Canaanite temple. This great domed structure has been adapted into a ritual space from where House Criamon can call down the heavens.''
''Properties of the Axis Mundi''
''While the new Form of Aether (described below) allows magi to manipulate the substance that makes up the ethereal spheres, the Axis Mundi is the only place in Mythic Europe where the ethereal spheres themselves are sufficiently close to the world that magic may act upon them. Outside of the Axis, the connection is too tenuous to allow magic to breach the barriers. At these focal points across Mythic Europe, the spheres are considered to be touching one another. Those within the Axis Mundi gain a bonus of +5 to any totals relating to the cosmological spheres. This includes cast''
''ing totals and totals for Abilities such as Artes Liberales where Astronomy is being used, and Astrology. There are many locations across Mythic Europe with a legitimate claim upon the Axis Mundi title, and each of these is treated as an Arcane Connection to each and any of the others that the character knows about. The Axis Mundi exists only within the mortal world. There are no vestiges of it within the Magic Realm and no regiones exist within the Divine or Infernal that touch upon it. Any representation of the Axis Mundi within the Faerie realm is entirely false, valid only within the context of whatever narrative the faeries concerned are pursuing.''

==The Coming Apocalypse==

''It is the very error of the moon; she comes more nearer earth than she was wont and makes men mad.''
''Othello: Act 5, Scene 2''
''The spheres will collapse and the Earth is doomed. Unless, that is, the troupe prevent House Criamon from succeeding. While later sections provide the projects needed to control the lunar sphere, this section provides the framework for telling''
''the story of the rise of House Criamon or of the saving of the world before the coming apocalypse. Stories are outlined in which the player characters gain visions of the apocalypse to come, learn of the Axis Mundi, encounter aether in its raw form, and then see the beginning of the end. The''

[|

==Options for the Axis Mundi==

''Characters wanting to reproduce the research of House Criamon need not use the same Axis Mundi as in those experiments. They may instead seek out their own hidden places of cosmological significance. Doing so is a story-driven task and not one governed by game statistics. There are a number of options they may choose. Any place typically associated with the connection between Earth and Heaven is suitable, such as Yggdrasil or Mount Olympus. Magi may also explore man-made places such as the pyramids of Egypt, the Tower of Babel or a Hermetic covenant built within a Volcano, or even the Great Tower as presented in Hermetic Projects. If the characters gain access to the Great Observatory (see below) then they could use the device to identify numerous Axes Mundi across Mythic Europe that they could use.''

|]
''elements provide enough information to lead the player characters and the Order toward the cult, with enough time to prevent the end of the world.''

==Expected Run of Play==

''As presented here, the apocalypse starts on December 23rd, 1277, when a conjunction of the planets can be seen in the sky. Assuming a start date of 1220, that allows 57 years through which the story plays out as House Criamon finally gains the power to achieve its aims. This provides the opportunity to seed the story early and introduce strong clues that House Criamon has an agenda. The setting is assumed to be the Provencal Tribunal, but that is a convenience only and the action and the characters can be moved with little modification to the events.''
''The player characters first become connected with the storyline through a number of small stories, each designed around a theme of the moon, planets, and stars and their effects on the Earth and its people. Through these events, the player characters encounter the leading cultists or their agents, which gives recognizable faces to the later events. The first of the major events is the escape of a number of experimental subjects from Andreva’s laboratory. These tortured souls escaping from the subterranean sanctum represent the breaking of the fifth seal, wherein the souls of martyrs cry out for revenge. Mirroring the breaking of the sixth seal, a star is seen to fall from the sky. This star is an Adulteration, a magical result of an intense Twilight suffered by Andreva upon successfully breaking the Limit of the Lunar Sphere. The player characters encounter the fallen star and''
''an agent of House Criamon sent to secure it. The star is made of a material unknown to Hermetic magic and the magi learn that House Criamon is meddling with forces beyond the Order’s understanding. House Criamon then retreats to Megiddo, pulling all its magi back to prepare for the end of days. The final seal is broken when the magi of House Criamon complete their ritual to suspend the motion of the moon. At this point, time, as Hermetic magic understands it, is disrupted and all across the world the heavens crack and fracture as their eternal rotations are unnaturally halted. The first event of the apocalypse occurs when Wormwood falls. This is the first part of the moon to break away and fall to Earth; it may not be the last. It provides a portent of what is to come by poisoning the Earth and its waters and creating a new kind of supernatural aura. From this point on, while the Order teeters on the verge of a new Schism War, the magi must either work to reverse the damage to the world, or find a way to survive. Most of the sections below indicate the year in which the event is suggested to occur. Others indicate which of the seals they represent being broken.''

==1231: The Axis Mundi is Found==

''The years leading up to 1231 see the construction of an observatory out to sea, sponsored by House Criamon and constructed by Anaximander of Verditius, as described above. The observatory has one aim: to identify the Axis Mundi and thereby provide House Criamon with the most sympathetic point at which to cast their rituals when the time comes. If the player covenant is anywhere near the coast and has anything to do with nearby ports the player magi may learn of various craftsmen, including masons, blacksmiths, and glass-workers, being transported out to an unknown destination off-shore, and then returning months later. These men are assisting Anaximander with the construction of the tower and the devices that surround it, as described later. If the player characters do hear of these''

[|

==A Timeline==

''The following events, ordered in terms of the earliest accessible events to those covering the apocalypse itself, may help in shaping this story’s inclusion in your own saga. You can choose where to start this story within your saga and the list below provides a guide as to the activities being undertaken at that time. The aim is to use at least one story to introduce each of the four cultists, to provide evidence that House Criamon is planning something large, and then to lead into the Apocalypse itself.''
''1178	 A Criamon assault on Selene, the spirit of the moon, takes place in the Magic  Realm. The assault is visible from Mythic Europe as a fire upon the moon’s  surface that blazes for days 1228	 The Grand Tribunal 1230	 The Great Observatory is completed 1231	 The Axis Mundi is found 1244	 The lost souls escape from Andreva’s laboratory 1250	 Andreva finalizes the breakthrough to create the new Hermetic Form of Aether  A star apparently falls to Earth 1263	 The Tribunal of 1263  Knowledge of the new Form of Aether starts to spread into House Criamon 1265	 The Last Wizard War 1270	 The Tribunal of 1270 1272	 The magi of House Criamon retreat  Work starts on the ritual to becalm the heavens  Selene, spirit of the moon, sets out to die 1277	 The Tribunal of 1277 – the Criamon are missing  December 23rd, the day of the Apocalypse  Wormwood Falls''
''If concerned at the number of years represented by the suggested time line above, you could reduce the timings by about half from the year 1220. In that case, the Apocalypse starts in 1256, which still provides 36 years of play from 1220, although some of the events will need to be compressed to fit.''

|]
''things and they do investigate, then allow them to find the observatory out at sea. If they find it before the Axis Mundi has been found, that is before the device has been completed, then they find teams of laborers and craftsmen all led by Anaximander. Anaximander is surprised by any visitors but not unwelcoming, assuming that his renown can only increase with stories of his Great Observatory. He is happy to describe the basic workings of the device, although there are some secrets concerning the Axis Mundi that he does not divulge. He may even engage the covenant to provide some lesser service for him, such as the obtaining of vis, supplies, or even minor enchantments. He may even ask for any casting tablets or devices they have concerning the location and control of minor spirits (see below). As 1231 approaches, members of House Criamon, including Lena Kessler (see later) arrive to operate the device. Stories of these tattooed magi heading out to sea may then reach the covenant.''
''The Great Observatory''
''The Observatory primarily functions as a huge armillary sphere, as per The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 52, but it also has another purpose: to identify the Axis Mundi. The tower was raised through Hermetic magic and close inspection of the smooth stones sides reveal them to be engraved with names and symbols associated with each of the ten Hermetic forms. The tower is stepped, made in ten sections, smaller in diameter as they approach the top. Circling the seven upper-most sections is a set of seven great lenses, each the height of a man, mounted on bronze armatures, which are themselves mounted on wheeled devices that allow them to rotate around the tower. Each of the lenses is associated with one of the ethereal spheres: the moon, the sun, Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn. Astrological symbols related to the target sphere are engraved across the face of each lens. When the device is used, the lenses gather light from the sky but allow only light from its dedicated sphere to pass through into the central chamber. This central chamber runs almost the full height of the tower and this is where the armillary sphere is suspended. Wheels''
''and levers around the walls allow the giant sphere to be moved and manipulated. However, some of those levers actually move the lenses around the outside of the tower, allowing the operator to position the lenses in order that each captures the light originating in their associated sphere. The light is sent through a series of lenses and reflectors and onto a mosaic map of the world on the chamber’s floor. This recombined light highlights in particular the various places within the world that touch the Axis Mundi. There is at least one in every Tribunal. When aligned, the seven lenses, each enchanted with a variation on the Observe the Color of the (sphere) Sphere effect (see later), collect and direct the essence of the spheres into the viewing chamber where the pure light allows a magical map of the target sphere to be created, shining brightest where the sphere comes closest to the Earth. When these are overlaid onto a map of the Earthly sphere, they identify the location of the Axes Mundi as bright points of light reflecting off the mosaic floor. Characters who know their Bible may recognize some of the tower’s traits, identifying it as the seven-headed beast that rises from the ocean at the end of days. The seven lenses are the beast’s seven heads, while the ten concentric tiers represent its ten crowns. The names of blasphemy borne upon the dragon’s heads are of course the astrological symbols engraved upon each lens. While this chapter assumes that the observatory has been built off the Provencal coast, you should feel free to relocate it as suits your saga so that it is relatively near your player characters. It should be built at sea, but that could equally be a sea of sand if that better fits your saga.''

==1233: Escape from the Great Observatory==

''Assuming that the player characters have not already learned of the observatory, this small scenario serves to introduce it. If you need an incentive to get the player characters looking for the observatory, then Marten Weiss of House Bonisagus, a member of the Magoi of the Stars mystery cult (The Mysteries: Revised Edition), arrives at the covenant from outside the Tribunal looking for''

[|

==Stopping House Criamon==

''Remember, the apocalypse can be averted. Guided by the player characters, the Order can discover the nature of House Criamon’s research and put a stop to it. Discovering the research and understanding the reasons behind that research is fully supported by the stories outlined in this section. The stories outlined allow the players to intervene at any stage in the process. In fact, they may attempt to put a stop to the plot well ahead of House Criamon’s plan coming to fruition. On discovering the plot, the player characters might seek to confront House Criamon or individual magi with the obvious dangers of what they are trying to do. While the House itself may be too far gone, individual Criamon may be persuaded, seeing the clear error of their ways. Such characters might then be used to disrupt the research efforts, bringing sufficient evidence to the Order to force an intervention. If the player characters turn a blind eye or fail to stop House Criamon, all is not lost. While the world does experience apocalyptic conditions as a result of the House’s actions, the player characters can help put the world right, perhaps even using House Criamon’s own research.''
''Why is the Order Looking the Other Way?''
''Nobody wants another Schism War. To even consider singling out an entire House for investigation, let alone action, raises too many parallels with what happened to House Diedne to be contemplated. The burden of evidence needed to persuade even junior Quaesitors or others with political influence of House Criamon’s activities is considerable, even without considering the outlandish nature of any such claims. Not until members of House Criamon start disappearing from public view can those with influence be made to listen, and even then they are keen to distance themselves from any direct actions until definitive proof of wrongdoing is presented.''

|]
''information on a rumored observatory. He and his two astrologer companions are keen to see the device and meet those who commissioned and designed it. Inevitably, Marten appeals to the player magi to help him discover more. He has heard that it was built at sea off the nearby coast and the rumor reached him ultimately from a glass-worker who worked upon one of the great lenses. He has been able to piece together some (inaccurate) drawings of the tower from the glass-worker’s limited descriptions.''
''The Missing Men''
''As House Criamon have gained the information they needed from the observatory, namely the location of the Axis Mundi, only a token presence has been left. There are signs of three men living in the tower: there are three beds in a common room, three sets of possessions, etc. However, what quickly becomes evident once the player magi arrive, is that these three are missing. Store rooms have been ransacked and the walls are daubed in broken Latin phrases urging visitors to “Go Away” and to “Leave this Place” and informing them “You are Not Wanted Here.” With no sanctum marker barring entry, the player characters are free to explore the observatory and even to investigate its magic, should they wish.''
''The Observatory Under Siege''
''The visitors are not alone, however. A spirit of primal bitter loneliness haunts the rock. It was this spirit that possessed one of the three caretakers and forced him to murder the others, throwing himself into the sea as a final act. It wants to be left alone and it uses its powers to control the weak. While the characters are exploring the tower, one of the supporting characters goes quietly missing, now under the control of the spirit. This possessed character now attempts to drive the visitors from its rock. The attempts start small, with perhaps new writing appearing on the walls, a stone dropped from a high balcony above the magi, a window broken, a pretense of seeing something demonic in the shadows. After each event, the spirit is able to leave the host, which leaves the host with no recollection of the event. If the party refuses to leave, the spirit escalates matters and looks for opportunities to kill another''
''of the characters, perhaps jumping between hosts for as long as its Might Pool allows. The magi and their companions must flee the rock or find and subdue the spirit. If the spirit can be subdued, it can also be interrogated. It was present throughout the time when House Criamon was using the Observatory to find their Axis Mundi and it is able to mimic the actions taken by the magi when they found the Axes Mundi across Mythic Europe.''
''Conclusion''
''Early in the overall story of House Criamon and their plans, this story might initially play out as one simply of survival against a murderous monster, but the players may return to the observatory at a later date for further investigations.''

==The Fifth Seal, 1244: Spirits from the Underworld==

''In this story, the player magi learn that Andreva of House Criamon has been experimenting with the effects of the moon upon the human mind. Having finished with this batch of her subjects, her attention turned to other matters and they managed to find their way out of her laboratory and into the countryside surrounding her covenant.''

[|

==The Spirit of Bitter Loneliness==

''Loneliness breeds bitterness and this spirit is driven by its bitterness, driven to protect its feelings of desolate despair.''
''Magic Might: 15 (Mentem) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +3, Com +2, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Confidence Score: 2 (6 points) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Self Confident; Meddler (Minor) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Sweet Touch of Bitterness), Greater Power (Control Human); Lesser Power (Donning the Corporeal Veil), Minor Virtue: Improved Characteristics x3 Personality Traits: Bitter +3, Jealous +2 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Claws: Init +1, Attack +5, Defense +5, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Abilities: Awareness 4 (watching for strangers), Brawl 3 (claws), Folk Ken 4 (the low and wretched), Guile 4 (its''
''true nature), Leadership 4 (intimidation), Magic Lore 3 (ghosts), Penetration 4 (Mentem), Stealth 4 (dark corners), Swim 3 (the ocean) Powers: Sweet Touch of Bitterness, 1 point, Init +2, Mentem: The spirit raises feelings of bitterness in the target, giving the target a personality trait of Bitter +3. It uses this power before using Control Human as the Bitter Personality Trait works in the spirit’s favor. CrMe 15 (Base 4; +1 Touch, +2 Sun): Greater Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost, +3 Init) Control Human, 2 points, Init +1, Mentem: Allows the spirit to control the actions of a target human, forcing them to violence and murder. See Realms of Power: Magic, page 101 for more details. ReMe 30 (Base 20, +1 Touch, +1 Conc): Greater Power (30 levels, –1 Might cost, +3 Init) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 5 points, Init – 2, Corpus: the spirit manifests with the physical Characteristics given above. See Realms of Power: Magic, page 102 for more details. Vis: 3 pawns of Mentem, as an immaterial corpse Appearance: This spirit appears as a wretched, unkempt, and malnourished man or woman.''

|]
''Encountering the Madmen''
''There are two ways to introduce this story. The first is to give the player magi the opportunity to investigate when talk of a group of pitiable lunatics reaches the covenant. One of these, it is claimed, is painted over with all manner of symbols and they claim among them some lordship over the moon and the stars. If this is insufficient to prompt an investigation then have a number of the covenant’s companions or grogs encounter the group directly when in a nearby town buying supplies. In either case, when the player characters find them there is a mob around them demanding that they be strung up. The five lunatics are chained together, bound at the wrists, the ankles, and the waists so that they may not be free of each other until separated by a blacksmith. They flinch from each assault and shy away from the baying crowd, but in among their jeers, these unfortunates carry on their own distracted murmurings. The five lunatics are a monk, a doctor, a lawyer, an astrologer, and a miller. Each has their own mania; the monk thinks himself a prince of the heavens, the doctor believes that death is the only cure, the lawyer argues the heavens out of their movements, the astrologer constantly draws charts of the heavens upon himself and others, and the miller claims to change his form as the sun and the moon travel through the sky.''
''Dealing with the Rabble''
''It seems that the jeering rabble, who have only failed to string up the lunatics because of their own arguing about whether all or only some should be strung up and how it might be achieved, have just cause to be afraid of these deranged figures. They report that these men were seen late the previous night in a graveyard and that one of them had been seen with a disinterred leg over his shoulder and an arm between his teeth while he growled like a dog. An examination of the scene, should the players visit the nearby churchyard, confirms that a body had been dug up. The body itself is not important to this story, being just the unfortunate victim of the miller’s deranged hunger. In among the mob is Simo de Balencs, the weary captain of the town’s small guard. He has no wish to see these five men hanged, so clearly are they out of their wits, especially given the arrangements that would have to be made to separate them first. He can be seen appealing for calm and even shielding the unfortunates from the rotten vegetables thrown at them by the mob. If the player characters show willing to take charge of the five men and promise to remove them from the town, then Simo de Balencs turns them over to their custody.''
''Talking to the Lunatics''
''Once free of the mob, the five affected men are content to talk, each revealing a little of their own manias and also, unwittingly, a little something of House Criamon’s intentions.''
''The Monk: He believes he has been crowned prince of all the heavens and that the sun and the moon rise by his very command. He demonstrates by showing how he commands the sun to move across the sky. If asked to demonstrate some other motion he willingly does so. When the effects of his powers are not apparent, he claims simply that the observers have not the wit to see the truth behind his power… But that one day they shall. His sanguine humor has been strongly and unnaturally expressed. The Doctor: The doctor has experienced a revelation. While life exists, life shall be subject to frailty and falter. Each illness and complaint may be addressed by the extinction of life, for the dead complain little about the frailties of the flesh. If challenged as to the state of the sore upon his leg and the discomfort and pain it causes him, he claims that he would slay himself but that he is chained to all these others. We must all go together or none at all, he explains. His melancholic humor has been strongly and unnaturally expressed.''
''The Lawyer: The lawyer pays little attention to those around him, instead saving his arguments for the myriad stars above him. He tries to name each of the fixed stars and the planets as defendants in his case against them. His complaint? That they are inconstant. He is irritable at the stars’ refusal to show during the daytime, and at the planets’ propensity to wander as they would. Any man he sees with a halberd, spear, or sword he commands to hold fast the fleeing sun or the moon so that they may be brought to account. His melancholic humor has been strongly and unnaturally expressed. The Astrologer: Armed with burnt twigs, he draws charts and calculations over his own skin and that of his neighbors, frustrated as they twist and move. He is absorbed into his own frustrations and cries out for it all to stop moving, even as he draws upon his own face. If the burnt twigs are taken from him, he bites into his finger and uses the blood to continue his charts. His choleric humor has been strongly and unnaturally expressed. The Miller: The miller complains that with each passing moment he changes his shape. First a man, then a wolf, then perhaps an eagle, then a boar, then a stoat… Each professed change takes place exactly one Diameter (as per the standard Hermetic Duration) after the last. As he changes, so his behavior changes (treat him as though he had a Personality Trait of +4 appropriate for the beast or shape he currently professes to have). If challenged as to why he looks the same each time he explains that is part of the curse; things would not be so bad if all of him changed for he would truly be a different beast, but as it is, so much of him survives that it would be better for it all to be ended. His phlegmatic humor has been strongly and unnaturally expressed.''
''Careful examination of the manias present in these five individuals reveals more about House Criamon and their plot than may at first be apparent. The monk has the hubristic belief that he has dominion over the heavens; the doctor believes that all must die so that none may suffer; the lawyer commands that the planets and the stars be held still; the astrologer’s''
''charts written upon any who come near are a clear reference to the tattoos and stigma of House Criamon; and the lycanthrope reborn into the same body, minute, by minute, crying out for an end to his confusion, references the mystical philosophy at the heart of House Criamon’s plot. One clue to the origin of their lunacy lies in the symbols that the astrologer inscribes into his skin. Those observing him may make an Intelligence + Magic Theory roll. On a roll of nine or more, the observing character notices a number of Hermetic symbols. If challenged as to where he learned them, the astrologer explains, while attempting to draw over his questioners, that he saw them on the walls where they were kept. Furthermore, the charts and calculations the astrologer attempts may be recognized as being Hermetic in nature with a simple Magic Theory roll. His imagination, that part of his mind that recalls images he has seen, contains parts of texts and notes that he saw within Andreva’s laboratory. The specific notes relate to the Know the Moon’s Influence, an experimental spell detailed in the Touching the Sky appendix at the end of this chapter. Enough can be gained from the scrawled notes to learn the spell’s Arts and that it is experimental.''
''Tales of their Captivity''
''Affected their minds may be, but they have some knowledge of what happened to them. They remember being captured, kidnapped by armed men, and taken to a dark place of stone and no windows. There was a woman there in the darkness and in the feeble candlelight they could see that her skin was painted with odd unnatural symbols. She also cursed them repeatedly. However, they are all too convinced of their own particular manias to believe that she caused them. The learned among the lunatics are clear that the woman spoke Latin, but a very strange form and they think they were words of magic as she conjured up many strange and uncommon thoughts and images in them. They do not remember how long they were with this woman, but they remember the woman losing interest in them. In truth, they spent a year with Andreva as she cast her experimental spells upon them.''
''Curing their Manias''
''Examination of their humors shows an unnaturally strong and persistent influence of one humor over the others. The magi may attempt to cure this imbalance through magic directly affecting their minds, or through magic designed to operate over their bodily humors. Physicians may even prescribe particular diets to bring them back into balance. However, there is a magical effect at work creating something with the power to influence their humors, a persistent effect that continues to operate despite magical attempts to correct those humors; like trying to heal an arrow-wound while the arrowhead is still present. It is the continuing effect, and not the humors themselves, that needs to be addressed. By the time the magi get hold of these men, the magic has been active for some time; in another week the spell ends, its duration up. At that point, the treatments described above are effective. Until that time, the magic may be detected and partly identified with an Intellego Vim effect of level 15. This reveals the presence of an active effect, the fact that it is essentially Hermetic in nature, that the effect makes use of Creo and Corpus, and that there is something other involved. This last item is the key information. There is something in the design of the spell that is unknown to the magi. This is the new Form of Aether, as described below. Once free of the effect, and the balance of their humors addressed, the victims begin to remember where they came from and who they left behind. They each want to be rid of the filth and rags of their confinement and to go back to their own homes and their old lives, assuming that they are there to be found.''
''Finding the Source of their Madness''
''The men know that their new understanding of the world was given to them by a woman of great learning, a result of the curses she cast upon them. Between the men, they have enough Latin to know that her magic made much of the moon. They are able to describe this woman in some detail. They describe Andreva of Criamon: a slender woman whose age is somewhat obscured by the markings upon her skin''
''and whose graying hair is cut brutally and carelessly short. As Andreva is a member of the player’s Tribunal, her description is sufficient to identify both her and her covenant. There is a mystery left to solve, and that is the mystery of her reasons. Whether confronted in person, either directly following on from these events or at the next Tribunal, or through correspondence, Andreva is somewhat forthcoming, if cryptic. She explains that there will come a time when the moon may make shortlived fools of us all. She refuses to say more for fear of making liars of them all, except that she is glad that the men are well.''
''Andreva’s Laboratory''
''Should the player characters choose to, the could attempt to access Andreva’s laboratory (acts entirely against the Code, of course). If they succeed, they find numerous volumes of experimental laboratory texts, some successful, others not. The Touching the Sky appendix at the end of this chapter provides more information on the kind of effects that might be detailed.''

==1244: Brighde Bronach Arrives==

''After her experimental subjects were allowed to wander freely from her sanctum, House Criamon dispatches a senior maga to ensure that Andreva is kept safe and secure. That maga is Brighde Bronach, from Loch Leglean. Her duties are to protect Andreva from further investigation and to persecute those who attempt such investigation. If the player characters visited Andreva, they subsequently receive a visit from Brighde, who warns them to stay away from Andreva and her covenant, declaring that any who disturb Andreva’s peace shall be made to suffer through the suffering of others. She’s deadly serious and if tested on the matter she does kill one of the covenant’s senior grogs or companion characters. A declaration of Wizard War follows if the warning is not heeded. She does this initially as a further warning, opting to take no offensive actions during the pe''
''riod of the war. However, if some should think she is bluffing, she isn’t. At the end of the war, she informs her enemy that the second time she declares war it will be final. If pushed at this point, she does declare and carry out her threat.''

==1245: The Seeds of Doubt==

''The following story seeds can be used during your saga either as stories that directly involve the player covenant or as stories reported by their allies. In some cases, both may have occurred. They all involve the moon in some fashion and they are designed to introduce some of the important magi of House Criamon involved in the research. These are appropriate to run from around 1245 onwards at a rate of one every two to three years while the House is in the last years of its research.''
''Introducing Brighde: Hunter’s Moon''
''Lycanthropes most often change with the phases of the moon, so Brighde sponsors a hunt of such beasts. The covenant becomes involved in one of two ways:''
''• The covenant may harbor a lycanthrope character who is hunted and captured alive, destined for laboratory experimentation. • A band of lycanthropes enters covenant lands, fleeing the magical hunters on their trail; it isn’t immediately clear which faction poses the greater risk to the covenant.''
''Introducing Beatritz: The Witch''
''A monk and a detachment of soldiers scours the area looking for witches in order to put an end to their evil ways. As it turns out, they are actually looking for one in particular. With the aid of demons, she escaped imprisonment in Andreva’s covenant where her response to Warping was being studied. The monk is an agent in Beatritz’s employ and knows that she was part of their experiments. When the''
''witch asks for aid from one of the player companions, how far are they prepared to go? Protect a witch who has trafficked with demons? Or cast her to the mercy of a man who has already hanged several innocents in his search? The witch explains that she was subjected to magical tortures designed to bring about her Witch Moon (see Hedge Magic: Revised Edition, page 42) and she can describe her captor — a woman with mystical markings across her face. If the magi give her sanctuary, the monk contacts Beatritz, who then promptly arrives with Brighde in tow threatening to investigate the covenant for trafficking with hell’s agents. This should, though, give the player characters time to identify Andreva as the experimenting maga.''
''Introducing Andreva: Horoscope''
''A young Criamon astrologer bearing a letter of introduction from Andreva of Criamon asks to stay at the covenant for a season in order to make important astronomical observations. His activities seem somewhat clandestine, however, and he frequently leaves the covenant with little word on where he is going. News reaches the covenant through its companions that physicians, scholars, and astrologers from the nearby town or court have found their precious horoscopes have been going missing from their libraries. They have been taken by the Hermetic astrologer. He is using them as a source of insight into a power to change an individual’s horoscope and alter their fate in the process. Though he does not reveal it willingly, this work is on behalf of House Criamon as they research the true effects of the heavens on the populace.''
''Introducing Andreva: The Rebellious Tide''
''Councilmen from the nearest port come cap-in-hand to the covenant with a problem. For the last two months, the tide has been erratic, catching experienced sea captains off-guard, causing damage to vessels, and loss of goods and revenue. The problem started when a magus undertook certain studies near the harbor. Investigating, it appears that a member''
''of Andreva’s clutch had been experimenting with spells that forced the spirits controlling the tide to act against their will and against the influence of the moon. The spirits are angry and refuse to resume their normal behavior until reparation is made.''

==The Sixth Seal, 1250: The Fallen Star==

''As the deep snows of winter settle across the land, a star falls from the sky, lighting up the night for miles around. The star is a thing of aether that has fallen to Earth through the sphere of fire. This star falls upon a nearby town, causing panic and sending many of the townsfolk out of their homes. This event did not have a natural cause, however. The star’s fall was caused by an Adulteration (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 53), an intense magical side-effect of Andreva being thrown into Twilight at the moment she made the final breakthrough and reached the Lunar Sphere.''
''The Burning Town''
''Approaching the town, the orange glow of fire is visible rising behind the walls, almost obscured by the smoke still drifting on the wind. Outside the town walls, there is an impromptu camp where townsfolk have escaped the flames and the threat of a spreading fire. If the magi stop to inquire, they find that a star did indeed fall and that it started a fire in the town. Some were struck blind by looking upon the star and some were killed. The council say that the fire is contained, but many are fearful of returning. The guards at the gates advise against entering. Inside, the source of the fire is easy to find – follow the smoke and light – but on approach, the magi and their party is stopped by a couple of spear-carriers who block the street and order the party away. These men, who have had Aura of Rightful Authority cast over them, are in the employ of a maga named Lena Kessler. If prompted, the elder of the two men recognize the magi as members of the Order and apologizes before reiterating that they cannot pass under orders of his mistress already on-site. Beyond these grogs, the blackened and smoking re''

[|

==Lena Kessler of House Criamon==

''Lena Kessler has achieved the Degree of Jupiter within the Magoi of the Star, a label she wears with pride. But she is also loyal to her House and knows of the plan to release humanity from the suffering of existence. She is proud to play a part in that noble aim.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 55 (44) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 6 (5) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; The Enigma*, Educated, Minor Potent Magic (Aries), Planetary Magic, Puissant Artes Liberales, Special Circumstances (within the Dominion: +3); Dark Secret: House Criamon Working to End Time; Slow Caster; Deficient Form (Corpus) Personality Traits: Confident +3, Cooltempered +2, Idealistic +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +0 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 5+2 (astronomy), Awareness 2 (determining effect), Church Lore 1 (liturgical rites), Concentration 4 (spell concentration), Dominion Lore 2 (divine creatures), Enigmatic Wisdom 6 (interpreting signs), Etiquette 2 (the church), Faerie Lore 2 (faerie forests), Finesse 3 (precision), Folk Ken 2 (magi), Guile 3 (lying about House Criamon), High German 5, Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 2 (grogs), Magic Lore 3 (regiones), Magic Theory 5 (inventing spells), Occitan 3 (prose), Organization Lore: House Criamon 5 (Initiating others), Organization Lore: Magoi of the Star 2 (Initiating self), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes''
''2 (personalities), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 3 (Mentem), Philosophiae 4 (metaphysics), Teaching 2 (Artes Liberales) Arts: Cr 5, In 6, Mu 7, Pe 8, Re 8, An 5, Aq 4, Au 4, Co 5, He 3, Ig 6, Im 9, Me 11, Te 10, Vi 6 Equipment: Quills, inks, vellum, astrological charts, a folding table and chair, writing tools, a cushion, two-dozen pawns of vis of various arts. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Deep blue robes with slender astrological symbols embroidered into the velvet, a long silver-cord belt, and numerous pouches hung around her waist. She is a sturdylooking woman with close-cropped fair hair and confident blue eyes. Spells Known: Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +6 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +21** Words of the Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10) +18 Posing the Silent Question (InMe 20) +19 Trust of Childlike Faith (PeMe 10) +22, Mastery 1 (penetration) Calm the Motion of the Heart (PeMe 15) +24** Loss of But a Moment’s Memory (PeMe 15) +24** Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20) +24** The Crystal Dart (Mu(Re)Te 10) +19 Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20) +14 Unravelling the Fabric of Imaginem (PeVi 10) +16 The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +20''
''* House Virtue ** Potent Magic Applied''
''Lena Kessler has a grimoire of casting tablets with her that provide spells such as Ward of Heat and Flames in order to provide protection against the searing heat, in addition to Pit of Gaping Earth that she used to collapse the ground beneath the fallen star and contain its intense heat. In addition to her own vis, she has also been provisioned with ten pawns each of Creo, Perdo, and Rego, and Auram, Ignem, and Terram to help her cast ceremonial magic and deal with the situation.''

|]
''mains of a market can be seen and there does indeed appear to be a robed woman at work, taking measurements and, readily apparent to the trained eye, casting magic.''
''The Maga''
''Lena Kessler of House Criamon is a member of the Magoi of the Star mystery cult (The Mysteries: Revised, page 54). This alone would be enough to explain her interest in the fallen star, but she is there on Criamon business and she intends to collect the fallen star. When challenged, she lays claim to the star, although it is clearly close enough to the player covenant that they should feel they also have a valid claim. As far as she claims, there is no mystery to her arrival; she is an astronomer and predicted the star-fall. That isn’t entirely true. When Andreva entered Twilight and the star fell, Brighde sent Lena to find it. What is true is that she has been instructed to retrieve the object any way she can. While careful to insist that she has claimed the star, she claims to be willing to share its secrets with magi who might lend their assistance. In particular, if they have an aura or regio nearby to which the star could be moved pending further study, she would be grateful. She admits to having used magic on certain of the townsfolk in order to ease her access and to allow her to work. She is also aware that the star has a dangerous effect upon those who look upon it. Lena Kessler has two attendants with her besides the sizable turb of grogs she has posted to guard the approaches to the star, one a grizzled veteran grog and the other a clerk. She has extended her Parma Magica over them to protect against minor magics.''
''The Star''
''The star is almost impossible to see within the searing light it throws off, but it is a sphere just over a pace across. The heat accumulated from the journey through the fiery sphere is dissipating, but the star shines at the bottom of a pit that Kessler opened up beneath it, which affords some protection against the effects of the blinding light. Kessler is careful to warn others against both the''
''heat and the light. Those who see through the light see nothing visible at its heart; there is a physical presence but it does not emit sensory species apart from the blinding light. An Intelligence + Magic Theory simple roll against an Ease Factor of 9 informs the magi that they are dealing with something that is beyond the limits of Hermetic Magic or something that has been so enchanted as to appear beyond those limits. An Intelligence + Philosophiae simple roll against an Ease Factor of 9 confirms that the object seems to have no discernible properties or qualities, and against an Ease Factor of 15 identifies it with Aristotle’s description of aether.''
''The Alien Aura''
''Crucially, the area around the fallen star has gained a new and alien supernatural aura (described later in this chapter). This Lunar Aura is of strength 3 and imposes a –15 penalty on casting totals generated within it. Intellego Vim magic designed to identify auras can detect that there is something there but it does not identify it as any of the four auras the Order understands. The aura does not move with the fallen star and it fades over the course of a season, becoming subsumed beneath the Dominion as it reasserts itself.''
''Resolving the Story''
''Kessler wants the star. She has been sent to fetch it and take it back to her covenant (the stroyguide should decide where this is) for the purpose of studying it and she is not about to give it up easily. However, if confronted by superior numbers she does not act rashly. If threatened, she offers the reasonable option of certamen. She tries to ensure that the Arts are such that she can use the vis she carries with her to secure the outcome. Her preference is that, if the covenant is insistent on getting something out of the event, that they help her retrieve the star in exchange for some reasonable reward or favor to be agreed with her superiors. If the player magi exert their dominance, or Kessler loses the certamen, then she escalates the affair back to Brighde Bronach, who then takes up negotiations. The star itself diminishes over the course of a decade although the blinding power remains until the last of the star finally disappears.''

==1263: The Tribunal of 1263==

''This Tribunal plays out as any might, with political squabbles between rivals and spats over the rightful ownership of vis, books, apprentices, and items left by magi fallen into twilight. However, there are potentially three events of interest.''
''Questions Over the Fallen Star''
''If the player covenant raise any questions over the nature of the fallen star or the presence and behavior of Lena Kessler, then Quaesitor Beatritz listens earnestly and suggests that she work with the covenant to investigate the matter. Thanking them for bringing the matter to the Tribunal, she promises to discuss it further with them and make arrangements for the investigation. As for Lena Kessler herself,''

[|

==The Fallen Star==

''The blinding light can be treated like a standard Hermetic effect, although it has no Penetration.''
''The Searing Light of Heaven CrIg 38 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Spectacle''
''Anyone looking directly at the fallen star is blinded by its brilliant light. Those affected must make a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to avoid blindness. Magi benefit from their Ignem Form bonus on this roll. Those possessing the Form of Aether may instead use their Aether Form bonus to this roll. On a botch, the blinding is permanent and the character gains the Blind Flaw, otherwise a Stamina stress roll (no botch) against an Ease Factor of 9 can be attempted every diameter until recovered. This effect uses the Spectacle Target, more commonly associated with magic known to magi of House Bjornaer, which affects any who look at the object in question, in this case the fallen star. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Sun, +4 Spectacle; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''

|]
''the maga is currently studying in a distant Tribunal, but the Quaesitor promises that she shall be part of her investigation. Such is Beatritz’s reputation that the Tribunal accepts her at her word.''
''A Gathering of Books''
''With the research entering its final phase, the magi of House Criamon scour their Tribunal for copies of books on the Technique of Perdo, and on Magic Theory. They are offering to pay over the usual asking price: the recommended prices found in Covenants, page 95, plus two pawns of vis.''
''Reports of Odd Behavior''
''A magus known to the player characters approaches them and asks whether they have noticed anything strange about the Criamon. He is not amused by any jokes the characters make. He recounts how one of the Criamon learned that his covenant had a copy of a book around a century old concerning the Magic Realm. The Criamon was keen to acquire it, offering ten pawns of vis outright for the original and any copies that the covenant might have made. He sold it, of course. If pushed to recall its content, the magus remembers that it was written by a companion to a Criamon magus who had accompanied him on a trip to the Magic Realm. Having read it many years ago, the magus remembers that it concerned some hunters and some enchanted equipment; he considered it to be typically metaphorical for House Criamon as they had apparently set out to capture the spirit of the moon. The book itself was particularly vain, being of low academic quality and a little damaged.''

==1265: The Last Wizard War==

''A young magus of House Criamon has reached a level of Enigmatic Wisdom that reveals to him that his House is working to bring about the end of the world. He is unable to accept their arguments and so has fled with Brighde Bronach on his trail, becoming one of the Gorgiastics (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 52). As a result of''
''his crisis of conscience, he has lost all of his Criamon stigmata. Finding himself on the player covenant’s doorstep, he confides in them that he is engaged in Wizard’s War with Brighde. Far from seeking protection though, he seeks understanding. The young Criamon asks that the magi take him to see suffering, despair, hopelessness, and finally hope. He asks them whether all the suffering and despair in the world is worth the small glimmer of hope. He asks whether, if they could, they would end all suffering in an instant, or whether the world needs to suffer. The magus does not break the confidence of his House but it should be clear to the players that he has recently learned something dreadful. If the player magi use magic to pull information from him then they learn what he has learned: that House Criamon plan to bring about the end of time, thereby releasing all souls from an eternity of torment. He does not know the mechanism through which this will be done. Brighde Bronach arrives at the covenant as soon as the period of warning is up, the war starting the following morning. The young Criamon chooses to go with Brighde. If he is allowed to go, he is never heard from again. If the covenant refuse to let him leave, then Brighde involves Quaesitor Beatritz; they will have their man one way or another. If the covenant still will not hand the magus over, then the war is declared anew and Brighde bides her time. What starts as a philosophical encounter, asking the player characters to look hard into their view of the world around them, ultimately allows an exploration of the Criamon philosophy once more, reminding players and characters of their views on suffering and eternity. This encounter can be used to definitively learn that House Criamon has something catastrophic in mind for the world and that it may be possible that other Gorgiastics know more about the plot.''

==1270: The Tribunal of 1270==

''With the possible exclusion of player Criamon magi, all the Tribunal’s magi of House Criamon now appear with the same stigmatic mark; a crescent moon upon their forehead. If the player Criamon have not yet been brought into the plan by virtue of their Enigmatic Wisdom or Organization Lore: House Criamon scores, then they are told of''
''the plan during the Tribunal gathering. This is a potentially dangerous moment for all concerned and the magus is told of the plan in the presence of Brighde Bronach only after handing over Arcane Connections to himself. The magus is reassured that there will be no suffering; a fearful and confused response is expected but the Criamon make constant reference back to their founder and his intention that the world be set free. As storyguide, it may be useful to have a copy of Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults to hand so that you can provide the same guidance, showing the player key passages that back up their assertions as to the cruelty of time and the obligation of the House to help the world escape.''
''A Service to the House''
''The Tribunal is also an opportunity for the player characters to directly contribute to the laboratories in the Holy Land that House Criamon is planning. A Criamon player character, or one with a reputation concerning laboratory work, is asked to spend several season establishing and developing a laboratory near Acre, while a Verditius character might be asked to create a device to aid in the development of spells (conferring a specialty bonus to inventing spells, as described in Covenants, Chapter Nine).''

==1272: The Retreat to Megiddo==

''As House Criamon grows ready, they draw their supporters back to Megiddo. This means that some non-player characters that the characters know suddenly disappear, so it is important at least by this time to determine which of your saga characters have been brought into that cult. Those who leave are careful to destroy Arcane Connections to them over the course of a season or more in preparation. This may include books and enchantments, but also includes anything in their personal chambers, including laboratory equipment. These characters take on unusual behaviors during the season before they leave. Rather than leave their washing to the covenfolk, for instance, they may start doing it themselves. Their colleagues''
''may notice them taking care not to leave any trace of their presence behind them, and they may request their own books and items from the library, which they magically cleanse of connection to them. When they leave, they ask that correspondence be kept for their return and that they will be gone at most two seasons. If pressed, they claim to be traveling to visit a contact in Thebes. Always Thebes.''
''The Templars of Haifa''
''The work of House Criamon has been decades in the making and their selection of Megiddo as their Axis Mundi was a decision made years ago. This has given them time to gain agents in the region to protect their interests. Chief among these is a small chapter of Knights Templar based in Acre in the bay of Haifa, some twenty miles north-west of Megiddo. These knights are part of a doomsday cult, aware of and ready for the end of the world. Promised protection and salvation from the events to come, they are a corrupt chapter of knights, not led astray by the infernal but by magic, believing that the Biblical end of days is being heralded. This is important for two key reasons. Firstly, it provides House Criamon with protection locally, and secondly Acre is the seat of power for the Knights Templar and is home to the order’s Grand Master (Thomas Bérard until 1273 and Guillaume de Beaujeu thereafter). This gives the cult a significant reach far beyond Megiddo in the lead up to the apocalypse. More information on the Knights Templar can be found in The Church, from page 102. Troupes playing near Acre will certainly encounter these knights and they may prove supportive of activities that keep the magi away from Megiddo. Interest shown in the lost city, however, results in political pressure not only from the knights themselves but also through their ally the bishop of Acre. The knights are widely known for their knowledge of the region and they make obvious scouts and guides for magi searching for a specific place and the Criamon hiding there. Engaging the knights in this way ultimately results in the magi being led out into the desert where the knights turn on them, prepared to risk death in protection of the magi of House Criamon.''

==1274: Selene’s Lament==

''When Andreva makes her breakthrough, creating the Form of Aether and with it breaking the Limit of the Lunar Sphere, the Daimon Selene starts to lose her influence over the motion of the moon. The first thing those in the Order notice is the duration of their spells: those of Moon Duration start to drift out by a day or two, sometimes shorter and sometimes longer than expected. This is an important development and should be emphasized to the player characters. If they do not routinely use Moonduration effects, have their friends and allies inform them of the strange occurrence. Magical investigation shows nothing wrong with the spells themselves, but all magical traditions are equally affected. Recognizing that her duty and her burden will soon be over, Selene sends Aspects of herself to the mundane world where she is intent to diminish. Her presence, however, causes problems that the magi are soon drawn into. In hearing her story, the magi learn that there are now those within the Order who have broken the Limit of the Lunar Sphere.''
''Introducing Selene''
''There are two ways in which this story can be introduced. The first is that word reaches the player covenant directly of a magical phenomenon in the nearby market town, with an expectation that they will then investigate. While Selene has sent many Aspects of herself to the mundane world, if this feels too convenient then Selene can first be encountered by a friend of the covenant, who deals with the phenomenon in the town and then brings Selene to the magi. The following sections outline these options.''
''The Grieving Town''
''An Aspect of Selene walks into a small market town somewhere near the player covenant and every person present is moved to uncontrolled grief. The grogs and companions are the first to come into contact with the phenomenon while at the town securing supplies. Unless protected through Magic Resistance, each of''
''the characters reflects upon a troubling and upsetting loss to come, a sense that the world is dying. The longer they stay in the town, the more the sense of loss increases. Give each character a Grieving +1 Personality Trait, which increases by +1 for each day they remain in the town. Townsfolk can be seen weeping in the streets. The churches are full and many have their doors flung wide open with praying supplicants spilling out onto the steps. While the populace lament loudly and uncontrollably, priests, learned magicians, and even diabolists who benefit from some measure of Magic Resistance, roam the town doing what they can to either console the grieving or at least look after themselves. It should be clear to the player characters that they are under the influence of a supernatural effect, one that those with Magic Resistance, such as those possessing relics, are able to resist. Selene can be seen, a wan figure dressed in a dirty white shift, wandering the streets barefoot and alone, outwardly unaffected by the grief.''
''The Visitor''
''If you want to bypass the grieving town, you can have a magus bring Selene to the covenant. He should be previously well-disposed toward the player magi and his story is just as above: he came across the town deep in grief and discovered that the source of the phenomenon was the woman he now brings with him. He has''

[|

==Who is Affected by Selene’s Grief==

''Given Selene’s Might Score, the points spent activating the power, and the level of the Divine aura, any character with a Magic Resistance of +0 or more is unaffected by the grief thrown off by Selene. The effect, though drawn from her Might Pool, is not under her control. It is an involuntary response to her loss of influence over the moon. As such, she is unable to stop or otherwise suspend the effect, which is renewed at both dusk and dawn.''

|]
''not undertaken any magical investigations and knows only that her name is Selene. The first inkling he had that she might be a Magical Spirit was when she could not cross the Aegis threshold. If the woman is brought in, those within the Aegis who lack Magic Resistance begin to suffer the effects of her power.''
''Talking to Selene''
''Selene’s grief is for the loss of her connection to the moon. She understands that as a creature of magic that she was in a near-unique position in that she was connected to something beyond, something outside of the terrestrial spheres. With that connection lost, she wonders what she shall do. Will she diminish? Certainly, she intends to send herself across the world and there live out whatever days she has. Asked why her connection was lost, she explain that the connection was always tenuous. Now that others have learned how to make that connection, hers is gone. She knows that the painted ones have stolen her connection to the moon and that only ruination and the end of the world will come of it. She is very clear; if the spheres are broken, it means the end of the world and she is powerless to intervene. Come the morning, Selene leaves the covenant, never to be seen again. As a daimon, she is still capable of recalling any Aspect, so there is nothing the player characters can do to keep this Aspect at the covenant.''
''What Happens Next?''
''By this point, the player characters should have learned that House Criamon are coordinating their efforts and their resources toward some aim and that some are leaving the House, unable to bring themselves to support that aim. Furthermore, the encounter with Selene should suggest that the end of the world is coming. If using the time line provided in this chapter, the player characters have a number of years between encountering Selene and House Criamon completing their preparations. This time could be used to put a stop to the plot by finding their center of research and bringing the might of the Order down upon it. If the player characters do not press forward at this''
''time, they provide House Criamon with the time it needs to complete its research.''

==1276: Divine Intervention==

''Word reaches the covenant of a man who is building an ark not far from the covenant. It is claimed that an angel told him the end of the world was coming and that he should build an ark as refuge for all those who remain true to the Lord. The peasant has been working day and night to fell the trees he needs and to build his ark, which is far from finished and far from likely to hold many individuals. But what at first seems like madness is actually divine inspiration. The man has True Faith and his strength and stamina are sustained by angels. The ark itself, currently just a skeletal shell, already has a Divine aura. Why is he building the ark? Because man has gone against God and is bringing about the end of the world. He even knows the date, revealed to him in a vision: the twenty-third day of December, in the year 1277. The angels are using him as their instrument on Earth, to save what few they can. Those with Sense Holiness and Unholiness detect the presence of angels watching over the man. But there is a problem. The trees he has felled belong to the local landowning knight and he arrives shortly after the player characters looking to bring the man man to justice for his theft. Do the magi help this man or leave him to his landlord’s justice? And what of the ark if the man is allowed to finish? Does it become just a noble failure or instead a divine regio large enough to save an entire community?''

==1277: The Final Tribunal==

''Across the Order, as Tribunals gather, all magi are aware of one thing: the Criamon are missing. Individual magi realized that they were missing from their covenants, indeed the Redcaps of House Mercere had reported such. But the Redcaps found those covenants staffed with mundane servants and protected by grogs — the business of running a covenant carried on seemingly uninterrupted. Now though, with no Criamon at Tribunal, and the same situation elsewhere,''
''magi are demanding answers. There is much discussion about the Criamon before any councils are called to order: has anybody seen them or heard from them; someone suggested they were studying overseas; why didn’t the Redcaps do anything before? When at last the council meets, their disappearance is the chief topic.''

==Preventing the Apocalypse==

''Despite the disappearance of House Criamon from public life, the Order is not moved to immediate action and so, unless through the agency of the player characters, the apocalypse will not be prevented. What is needed is for definitive proof to be brought before magi senior enough to order an intervention. Thanks to the man building his ark, the player characters should now know the date the apocalypse begins. Through Selene, they should now understand that this event has something to do with the Lunar Sphere or the moon itself. There have been enough clues pointing to House Criamon, including Lena Kessler and the fallen star. Furthermore, the player characters should also know that Andreva of Criamon was undertaking magical research. They should also remember Anaximander’s observatory, many years previous, with its magical view of the heavens. A convincing case can be constructed by drawing upon this evidence. Allies may be found within House Bonisagus if senior magi can be convinced that the breaching of the Lunar Sphere is possible, that House Criamon has been secretly experimenting to that aim, and even that they may have succeeded. Bonisagus pride may not allow such a breakthrough to go unchallenged.''
''Options''
''The potential outcomes from this council are too broad to cover here, but some of the likely actions are:''
''Investigate the Criamon covenants or laboratories: The player magi are tasked with entering the abandoned''
''Criamon covenants to investigate their disappearance. Go to the Cave of Twisting Shadows: The player magi are asked to go to the Tribunal of the Greater Alps and the Criamon central clutch at the Cave of Twisting Shadows. Determine what the House may be working on: Given the nature of the involvement that people have had with House Criamon, can the player characters determine why the Criamon have withdrawn? Remember, they left some six years ago and had been gathering materials on Perdo since before then. Find House Criamon: Discover where they retreated to, investigate the area, potentially make contact with them, and report back.''
''Clues to be found at this stage include discarded or forgotten maps of the Holy Land, stray notes on the phases of the moon, and even forgotten letters discussing Andreva’s breakthrough in vague terms. By this point in the saga the player magi can be expected to have some seniority, so it is important that the Tribunal assign them tasks with some authority. Of course, the players may have other actions that they want to take and these should be accommodated.''

==One Last Chance to Save the World==

''Once the player characters have committed to ending the madness of the Criamon plot, a doomsday clock is started. House Criamon sees this as their best chance to save the world, and they approach it cautiously. The magic is entirely new, and no one, not even Andreva, fully understands it. They believe that the conjunction on December 23rd, 1277, is probably important to its success, so they do not perform the ritual before that date unless it appears likely that they will not be able to wait. An attack by other Hermetic magi, or a clear risk of the same, does provoke them into starting. In fact, the conjunction is not important to the ritual, and, if the Criamon complete it, it has the effects described later, no matter when they act. Once the Criamon start the ritual, the player characters have ten hours to save the world.''
''Finding Megiddo''
''The House has set watch across the area surrounding Megiddo and these spies use magical amulets to alert the House if they see any force that may threaten the plan. If the player characters approach in a way that raises the alarm, it is important that this mundane watchman is seen and caught by the player characters and their companions. This informs them that House Criamon has been warned of their approach. The watchman also knows that the Criamon are can be found in the catacombs beneath the ruins of the old city. Dealing with the scout and finding the old city takes two hours.If the characters do not raise the alarm, they can get to the old city before provoking the Criamon into starting the ritual.''
''Face the Knights Templar''
''The watchman does not know that the ruins are protected by around twenty Knights Templar. If they are forewarned, these knights prepare for the arrival of the magi by hiding within the ruins, and attack from ambush. If the characters have not raised the alarm, the knights are alert for intruders, but not organized into an ambush. The knights fight as five trained groups of four mounted knights. They attack from ambush using lances in the first round before switching to sword and mace. They fight to the last man. Also present and visible is Brighde on her familiar steed Beathan. She uses what power she has to aid the Templars, retreating to the underground sanctum when the Templars finally fall. Entering the old city and confronting the ambush takes a further hour. If the battle goes badly, then consider the time to have been two hours. The player characters could also search the ruins for the entrance to the underground sanctum without alerting the Templars. Brighde is not present all the time if the alarm has not been raised, and the characters probably have time to wait for her to go, which might be wise. The search is impossible without the use of magic, and hiding from the Templars by mundane means is almost impossible, but the magi may well have enough magic to make this possible.''
''Entering the Underground Retreat''
''The entrance to the underground retreat has been magically sealed and obscured beneath an old ruined temple, the tallest of the remaining ruins. It may also be found by following the trail left by Brighde and Beathan when they left the battlefield, in which case the trail leads to a large stone wall. The way can be opened by moving or destroying the wall, to reveal a steady slope down into the catacombs. Once beneath the city, the magi encounter an Aegis of the Hearth of level 20 and penetration of +45, which may serve to exclude some familiars or similar characters. The catacombs are threaded with magical alarms. These alarms do not sound in any way that the characters can hear, but unless magically detected and bypassed they do alert the Criamon, who immediately scry on the characters, and urgently begin the ritual. It is very likely that the scrying magic will fail to Penetrate on at least one magus, warning them that they have been spotted. If the characters have got this far without raising the alarm, they have done very well, but there are so many magical alarms within the catacombs that it is effectively impossible to get through. House Criamon have had time to prepare and the catacombs have also become a magical labyrinth of illusions and misdirections. For instance, the sounds of ritual chanting may be heard from nearby — following those sounds leads the party away from the ritual site and eventually into a small dead end from where the chanting emanates. Illusory walls appear and disappear (bearing a casting sigil by which canny magi may then recognize them), guiding the magi yet further until they find themselves in an apparently sealed chamber. Illusory guides may also appear, claiming to be apprentices scared at what the House is doing. Following these apparitions leads only to the exit. Following each of these illusions to their natural conclusion costs the magi an hour each. Seeing through them early costs them no time at all. Once the player characters are through the illusions, they encounter Brighde one final time. She stands, illuminated in the catacombs, bow ready, defending the path. She warns them that they can only do ill by continuing on their path. If challenged to explain, she outlines the House understanding of infinite suffering that will all be ended in a matter of hours. Beathan waits, hidden in the dark. The old woman uses her guile and magic to disrupt the magic of those facing her while Beathan attacks the unwary from ambush. Neither surrenders. Neither retreats. This is a''
''fight to the end for both of them. From this point, the genuine chanting of the assembled ritualists may be heard and leads the party inexorably toward their goal. The last line of defense takes the form of the final corridor filled with those members of House Criamon not taking part in the ritual itself. They stand, arms linked and blocking the path of any who seek to move through them. They do not offer violence but they do tell the interlopers to go back, that they are interfering in things they know nothing about, that what they do they do for the good of all the world. Of course, there are many ways through a blockade of some forty peaceable magi and it all depends on how long the player characters are prepared to be held up. The fight with Brighde accounts for an hour and the blockade of magi the same if the player characters let it. At this point, they reach the ritual.''
''Interrupting the Ritual''
''The breaking of the seventh seal comes in the form of a great ritual. While the Form of Aether has been discovered and the Lunar Sphere breached, that knowledge on its own is entirely academic; it must be put to use. The ritual takes place in a large domed chamber. Representations of the spheres and the planets painted on the chamber walls revolve around a central circular altar. Standing over the altar is Andreva, and she is surrounded by the rest of House Criamon, including Quaesitor Beatritz.''
''Beatritz sees the threat to the ritual as the player characters arrive and she can be seen urging Andreva to hurry. It is now for the player characters to decide how to interrupt the ritual. A sudden or violent interruption forces an immediate spell-casting roll as if the ritual had completed. If a zero is rolled, then the storyguide should roll for a botch as normal, although this is with 30 botch dice due to the magnitude of the ritual and the pawns of vis being used. The effects of any botch are open to the storyguide to determine, but given its magnitude, a significant event can be expected. Here are a few suggestions:''
''• Solid aether pours from the ritual site, blinding white and crushing everyone and everything in its path, filling the catacombs – the player characters must race to the exit. • The ritualists are sucked upwards into the Lunar Sphere – the player characters face the same fate unless they can find something to hold on to. • An explosion of pure magic collapses the catacombs. The player characters must rely on their wits and spontaneous magic to find cover and survive the blast.''
''Assuming no botch, the vis is consumed and its power wasted. Many of the Criamon collapse from their exertions. Others, such as Andreva, Beatritz, and Prima Muscaria (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 56) remonstrate with the interlopers and plead that they be allowed to continue.''
''If the player characters fail to prevent the completion of the ritual however, the Seventh Seal is broken and the heavens are becalmed; the Apocalypse begins.''

==The Aftermath of Success==

''If the player characters succeed in stopping the ritual, they still have House Criamon to contend with, and the Order may never be the same again. Andreva, if alive, still knows the ritual she invented, and it could be just a matter of time before House Criamon attempts to assemble again. With the ritual stopped, many of the Criamon magi flee the site, while others race through the catacombs daubing sanctum markers on every door in order to prevent intrusion. It is a vain hope as council of senior magi, perhaps including Primi of the other Houses, arrive and pass whatever emergency measures needed to gain access to the research. House Bonisagus is well-represented and asks to take charge of any and all research materials and information on new magic. Houses Tremere and Guernicus concern themselves with the future of House Criamon, including the business of bringing the chief cultists to account. The player characters should be involved in such councils and have direct agency in deciding some of the following matters:''
''• Which crimes the senior cultists be charged with • The nature and timing of their trials • The punishments due for those found guilty • How to deal with any identified as having helped or supported the Criamon • The fate of the research materials found in the catacombs • Whether any magus or House should possess such power • What to do about the knowledge concerning the new magic already held by individual magi • The ultimate fate of House Criamon and its members''
''House Criamon’s philosophy is such that Andreva and Beatritz will attempt the ritual again and they are honest about that fact. House Tremere is clear that there cannot be a new Schism War, despite the outrage expressed by House Flambeau and others. The Order could still tear itself apart, but as the magi who saved the world the player characters are in a strong position to offer guidance.''

==The Seventh Seal: The Becalming of the Heavens==

''I cannot by the progress of the stars give guess how near to day''
''Julius Caesar: Act 2, Scene 1''
''The ritual is designed to destroy the moon’s property of motion. By Criamon understanding, this is sufficient to cause the motion of all the interconnected spheres to end and with it time.''
''The End of All Moments''
''As the ritual is completed, the moon’s motion is suddenly halted. The effect radiates out immediately and every sphere from the Earth out to the fixed stars cease their motion. An earthquake is felt across Mythic Europe and a crack forms across the face of the moon. This is the point at which most Hermetic magic momentarily fails. Just as when a magus crosses from the mundane world into the Magic Realm, all active ef''
''fects are suddenly canceled. They may be recast, but spells and effects relying on certain Durations linked to celestial movements immediately fail again. See the section later on Magic after the Apocalypse for more detail. As the spheres have ceased in their motion, the storyguide should decide whether the characters’ home region is plunged into perpetual night, dawn, dusk, or daytime.''

==Wormwood: The Aftermath of Failure==

''And the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.''
''Revelation: 8:11''
''Once the ritual has been cast, a part of the lunar sphere, Wormwood, falls to Earth. Its fall has four phases, which include its brightening in the sky, the great hail of fire that falls upon the earth as Wormwood starts to break apart, the destruction in the seas and oceans, and then the poisoning of the waters of the land. These events are local''
''ized to the player characters’ Tribunal, giving a taste of what is to come.''
''The Brightening Star''
''Wormwood is actually part of the moon itself, broken off due to the damage caused in the heavens. It spends a season growing bright in the sky. Some draw religious parallels, feeding the idea that this is a precursor to the apocalypse. If the player characters themselves do not light upon the name Wormwood, then a supporting character does. At this point, Wormwood is the only moving heavenly body visible in the sky. Importantly, as this star originates in the lunar sphere, most magi are unable to use magic to investigate or affect it. However, House Criamon have their rituals that can affect Wormwood and suspend its movement. A hastily-called Tribunal is held and the magi consider the meaning of the event and their options.''

[|

==Designing the Ritual==

''There are two effects that must be created in order to suspend the motion of the heavens as House Criamon intends. The first is a simple effect that allows the ritual caster to see the aether, which she will target with the second ritual.''
''Sense of the Moon’s Presence''
''InAe 20 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Vision Aether is intangible and invisible, which makes it hard for Hermetic magic to affect. This effect gives the caster the ability to see aether, which is sufficient then to target that aether with further spells and effects. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +4 Vision)''
''Hold the Sky in Thrall''
''PeAe 145 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual This ritual destroys the target aether’s fundamental property of movement. Upon completion of the ritual, the effect is instant and irrevocable. This ritual, given the nature of the power concerned, is unique. It has been designed to target the moon, or rather the aether behind what those below the Lunar Sphere perceive as the moon. Once cast, there is no other target that this ritual can then target. (Base 5, +3 Sight, +5 density, +20 size) Required Lab Total: 4 seasons (182), 8 seasons (164), 12 seasons (158), 16 seasons (153), 20 seasons (152)''

|]
''Hail and Fire''
''Unless prevented, Wormwood visibly breaks up in the sky into three large parts as it passes through the fiery sphere. The first of these burns bright in the night and then, three days later, fills the sky with a burning hail storm. This hail storm is centered on an expanse of woodland and the surrounding towns and villages within half a day’s walk of the covenant. The glow from the fire is visible through the night and the smoke rising from the woods and the farms blots out the day. The scene is devastating. In each town and village, roughly a third of the population have perished or will without aid. Some were burned in their homes while others fled the flames only to be caught in the burning hail, like a storm of embers from a forge. Burned and blacked bodies litter the ruins, lying next to livestock that suffered the same fate. Investigation of the scenes shows that the fire is pure elemental fire, which can be affected by Hermetic magic. In places though, a strange invisible stone-like material can be found. This dense aether should be familiar, as it is the same as Lena Kessler was sent to retrieve.''
''The Seas and Oceans''
''After the hail of fire at the end of the season, the largest part of Wormwood reaches the Earth. It crashes into the ocean near to the covenant’s Tribunal, causing a great wave that destroys fully a third of all creatures in that sea and a third of all vessels that sail upon it. All along the coast, towns, villages, harbors, and beaches are submerged by the wave. When it withdraws, just as quickly as it came, the bodies of great fish and whales lie inland, mingled among the broken timbers of ships. The invisible body of Wormwood sinks to the sea floor, where it continues to poison anything that draws close to it.''
''The Poisoned Waters''
''Wormwood’s tail falls the following day. This time, as it passes overhead, a third of all the open water in the Tribunal becomes poisoned. This includes lakes, rivers, and streams. The water can be purified through magic or workings of scholars, but those who drink the poison suffer as though having ingested Monkshood, as per ArM5, page 180.''
''The Apocalypse in Microcosm''
''The later section describing the Apocalypse in full may be used in the aftermath of Wormwood’s fall. Where pieces of the star fall to Earth, the strange new Lunar aura manifests, bringing with it outlandish plants and animals that populate the Lunar Sphere.''

==The Extraordinary Tribunals==

''In response to Wormwood and the becalming of the heavens, the Order of Hermes convenes a number of extraordinary Tribunals. Their aim is to order magical investigation of the heavens to gauge whether Wormwood is a sign of worse to come. Due to the disruption of the Parma Magica, the meetings are fractious and riven with mistrust. Any magi from House Criamon who remain are convinced, despite the apparent crisis, that they have released all humanity from the horror of eternity. They are willing to submit themselves to any Earthly punishment as the price they pay for their success. Eventually, samples of the aetheric stone are brought before the Tribunal, where debate rages around its origin and the reasons why Hermetic magic is powerless to affect it. Some believe that the biblical apocalypse is nigh and flee to live out their remaining days. Others see it as the Order’s duty to set the world straight.''

==The World of the Apocalypse==

''This section describes conditions after the Apocalypse. Not only do fragments of the moon periodically fall to Earth, bringing with them fire, desolation, pestilence, and death, but the careful balance of the four Supernatural Realms is also disrupted.''

[|

==The Falling of the World into Ruin==

''Every season, there is a chance of the player characters’ Tribunal being struck. The first time the Tribunal is struck, the impact is considered very distant from the player covenant. The second time that Tribunal is struck, the impact is closer. The third impact is directly over the player covenant’s home region. On a near miss, the impact occurs in a neighboring Tribunal or stretch of ocean. For each season, the storyguide rolls a simple die, treating a roll of 1 as indicating the player Tribunal. For each step removed, the strike happens further away. Characters may try to anticipate the strikes. Characters may make an Intelligence + Artes Liberales (Astronomy) Stress Roll. The target Ease Factor is 12 in order to determine which area will be affected in the next season. The roll suffers a penalty of –1 for each season beyond the''
''first that the astronomer is trying to divine. A successful roll informs the astronomer of which Tribunal (or other region) will be struck in the target season and an approximate date. Example: Hildegarde scours the nighttime sky, observing the ruins of the moon as they spread across the heavens. With the storyguide already determining the next few seasons of strikes against the Earth, and secretly determining that the player Tribunal will be struck in just two seasons time, Hildegarde makes successive rolls for the next year. With an Intelligence of +2 and an Artes Liberales (Astronomy) of +5, she rolls 7, 9, 0 (with no botch), and 6, for totals of 13, 14, 4, and 9 once the penalties have been taken into account. She knows where the Earth will be struck in each of the next two seasons, but no further.''

|]
''Destruction''
''First comes the raw destruction of the world. With the lunar sphere collapsing and the Moon falling to Earth, many villages, towns, and cities are destroyed outright by aether falling from the sky. In some places, new mountains of aether replace fields, forests, and valleys, and fires burn for weeks on end. Survivors flee, taking what they can, and streams of refugees cross every land looking for safety.''
''Sickness''
''As the air thickens with smoke and ash, sickness sets in. Coughing, crying, and choking become the most prevalent sounds; that and prayer. The sickness is non-natural, caused by the violent environment. Choleric diseases (as listed in Art & Academe, pages 47 to 51 and City and Guild, pages 25 to 28) rise in frequency. Livestock and wild animals are similarly affected. These conditions that promote sickness also impose a –2 aging roll modifier. This extends even to covenants in affected areas. If using the guidelines for covenant loyalty (Covenants, page 38) then this may affect the loyalty of the covenfolk.''
''Lunacy''
''The manifest aether across Mythic Europe has a direct impact on the mental state of the population. Just as with the Edge of Reason effect described below, those with a dominant sanguine humor become hysterical, those with a choleric dominant humor become gripped with psychosis, those with a melancholic dominant humor become neurotic, and those with a phlegmatic dominant humor become struck with fear and horror. Eventually, bands of similarly affected individuals group together and form strange discordant pilgrimages that roam the land. Their cries and wails can be heard in advance of their arrival. They are as much a danger to each other as to those who cross their paths.''
''Famine''
''Food starts to become scarce. The miller turning wheat into flour, the baker turning flour into bread, and cottage industry of brewing beer, are all gone. Those mills that may be left standing are also left idle as millers flee with their families in the hope of finding somewhere safe. Unattended livestock die through illness and predation and fields burn and rot in equal measure. The land becomes ravaged as people take what they can from it, no longer managed by farmers and landowners. Each year after the first, a cumulative –1 living standards modifier is imposed as food becomes more scarce and less nutritious. Covenants devoting magical resources to this problem may alleviate this penalty for their own covenfolk and any other areas that they choose to protect.''
''Loss of Rule''
''Mundane leaders, kings, princes, landowners, burghers, and boyars alike might quickly lose control of their people. Each season after the first, leaders who continue to assert their leadership must make a Communication or Presence + Leadership stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. They have a penalty to this roll equal to any negative reputation they have personally. A failure increases a “Poor Leader” reputation by one point. This reputation is used as the number of botch dice to roll should the leader roll zero. A botch indicates that an uprising is imminent, within the season. More significant botches reduce the time down from season to month, to week, to day, and then to no warning at all. If there is any kind of warning, the leader may try to escape or to confront the situation.''
''Aetheric Storms''
''Aether has a natural proclivity to move from east to west. As a result, powerful aetheric winds and storms race across Mythic Europe at great speed. These winds largely consist of intangible aether and so there is no physical effect upon the populace or buildings. However, these storms do influence the humors of those they pass over. Just as with the description of lunacy above, the population experiences a''
''temporary imbalance of their humors that results in extreme Personality Traits while the storm passes through. Storms containing aether at higher densities can be damaging. Even at the density of stone, aether lacks the quality of hardness, but the impact can still cause harm. Those caught in such storms suffer +8 damage each diameter that they are exposed. Buildings or other shelters are sufficient to protect individuals from damage. In some cases, aether with the density of earth, stone, and metal are caught up in the storm and these can wreak havoc. Aetheric earth moves at 100 paces per round and is dense enough to damage buildings in its path.''
''Rise of The Infernal''
''The infernal turns this calamity to its own evil advantage; leaders may cling to their rule through infernal influence, refugees may find food ahead of others in return for prayers to their demonic saviors, and demons of sicknesses might pass over those who embrace the devil. With communities forced to flee the safety of the Dominion, demons and their agents operate more openly. While they may not manifest physically, they use their powers widely to spread fear and call the fearful to them.''
''Response of the Divine''
''The Dominion is the most accessible aspect of the Divine across Mythic Europe, but it is also the most fragile. Once a community is broken, the power of the Dominion begins to wane and a parish may fall to temptation born of desperation. Communities led by the pious and those with True Faith may be established, providing sanctuary from the devastation outside. Some may retain the formal trappings of the Church, others may not. Some may be welcoming to all-comers, recognizing their need, others may staunchly protect their resources, perhaps even with violence. Pilgrims become a common sight, refugees banding together to find safety and salvation. They wind their way through the landscape in search of shrines where saints may be invoked (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 87) to ease their suffering, in''
''search of protection, or in search of land unmolested by the apocalypse. Angels of mercy may provide succor to those in need, but ultimately they are powerless to put right the sins of the few.''
''Time''
''Day and night cease to mark the passage of time. Even the tides fail to keep time, and crops and other plants lose the environmental cues they rely upon for seeding, sprouting, and fruiting. You should continue book-keeping time as normal; advance the world in season and years, but the lines between day and night, weeks and months, become blurred and most soon lose track.''

==Denizens of the Lunar Sphere==

''The lunar sphere was populated with its own plants and creatures before the apoca''
''lypse and these are now spilled across the face of the Earth, trying to gain a foothold on an unusual world.''
''Creatures of Lunar Fire''
''The lunar sphere has its own deviant creatures, like twisted shadows of earthly beasts. They cling to the lunar auras for the most part, away from Earthly creatures until it is time to hunt. All creatures from the lunar sphere and beyond possess the Lunar Animal Quality, reflecting their strange physiognomy. See the nearby box for details of this new Quality. In all other respects, creatures of the lunar sphere can be created as per the rules for Magical Animals in Realms of Power: Magic, or mundane animals in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults.''
''The Poisoned Waters''
''Earthly water contaminated with water or material from the lunar sphere is bitter and poisonous. Treat such water as a poison causing a Light Wound with an Ease Factor of 9 to resist if ingested. See ArM5, page 180 for details. The water’s poisonous quality can be destroyed by a base 15 Perdo Aquam effect or similar intervention. In particular, Experimental Philosophy may also be used. See Art & Academe, page 67 for details. Aetheric water originating on the moon is dangerous to the touch and is treated like vitriol, as per ArM5, page 181. A character drinking this invisible water suffers non-combat damage (stress die + 9 in this case), which may be soaked by a stress die + Stamina.''

[|

==New Animal Quality: Lunar==

''A Lunar creature is invisible apart from its eyes and mouth, which glow with lunar light. Its body dissolves quickly after death, fading into intangible aether. If the creature normally leaves vis behind, this must be collected quickly or else it is scattered on the winds. The attacks of Lunar creatures sap their victim’s will. For each point of wound penalty inflicted, the victim loses one point off their highest Personality Trait. The Lunar creature may then use that point like a point of Ferocity. Should the victim survive the encounter, these lost Personality Trait points are recovered as the associated wounds heal. A Lunar creature is immune to harmful effects of water and plants from its own Sphere.''
''Example Lunar Creature: Wolf''
''Characteristics: Cun +2, Per 0, Pre –2, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: –1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics (x2), Ferocity (when hungry), Long-Winded, Sharp Ears, Compul''
''sion (killing), Infamous Qualities: Aggressive, Hardy, Keen Sense of Smell, Lunar*, Pack Animal/Pack Leader, Pursuit Predator, Sharp Ears, Thick Fur, Vocal Personality Traits: Brave +3, Cowardly +3 Reputations: Bloodthirsty (local) 4 Combat: Teeth: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage 0 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16) Abilities: Athletics 5 (distance running), Awareness 3 (smell), Brawl 5 (teeth), Hunt 4 (track by smell), Survival 3 (winter) Natural Weapons: Teeth: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Its thick fur gives it a Protection of +1. Appearance: The Lunar Wolf has the same shape as a wolf of the Earth, but its body is made of aether. The only hint as to its presence is the tracks it leaves and the faint silver glow from its mouth and eyes.''
''* Described earlier''

==Vignettes of the Apocalypse==

''The following vignettes provide a little background color for those wandering through the Apocalypse.''
''• A lone horse in a village, trying to eat the dry thatch from a cottage roof. It would make a fair riding horse or it could feed the party for a good few days. • A pack of dogs roams the near woodlands. They are becoming braver as they grow more hungry and desperate. They are more than a match for the occasional family that enters their territory and may even outmatch a patrol of grogs on the road. • A peddler stops the characters to trade things he has found along the road for food or something to drink. A forlorn soul, he cannot acknowledge the devastation around him and continues to speak as though he were simply traveling from one prosperous village to another.''

|]
''Forests of the Dead''
''A Lunar plant uses the matter in which it grows to construct its form. So, a plant growing through a body uses the flesh of that body in order to build its own form. A spore falling on stony ground weaves a body out of those stones, while a spore blown into a graveyard may cause long-buried bodies to sprout from the ground. Hermetic magic may affect these plants with the appropriate Form. Once the plant has reached maturity, which it does across the course of a season, it buds numerous balls of fluffy spores. These are made of pure aether and the only sign of their presence is the slight sparkle in the air. These balls are delicate and easily disturbed and broken apart and an individual seed may carry far on the wind. Once embedded in the ground, the spore sends out slender tendrils that lie in wait for a likely host. Lunar plants grow rapidly and may ensnare the unwary, either those sleeping outside or those unfortunate enough to have a spore enter their homes. When a host comes near, the seed seeks it out and latches on. This constitutes an attack roll made by the seed, as described below. As a Lunar spore is easily missed, it is treated as only leaving faint traces, as described in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 33. This gives the seed +6 to attack, +9 to defense, and +9 to Stealth rolls. When in the vicinity of a spore, characters make a Perception + (Awareness or Hunt) roll against the seed’s Dexterity + Stealth (+9, as above). A roll is permitted each round, and until the character is successful, the spore gains the listed bonuses. If the spore succeeds in inflicting a Light Wound or greater, then the host becomes infected. This replaces the normal Stamina roll to resist the disease. If the infection is left to grow, the host eventually becomes rooted to the ground. They experience consciousness, fatigue, hunger, and sleep as normal. While rooted, the infection progresses like a disease. Surgical intervention may be used to release an infected individual and this may involve amputation or other surgical work to separate the individual from the root.''
''The Lunar Infection Critical Sanguine Disease, Severity 18 Stable 6, Improve 18, Interval: Week This disease is the result of coming into contact with a lunar Spore. The spore grows throughout the body. (Contra-Natural)''
''Symptoms: The veins around the site of first infection grow hard and blackened, visible through the skin. At the end of the incubation period (typically a few days), the individual is unable to move or use that part of their body. These veins soon extrude through the skin and latch onto the ground or other hard surface, locking the infected individual into place. As the disease progresses, more of the body becomes paralyzed until the individual ultimately dies. Each time the infected character fails''
''a recovery roll, their most distinctive Personalty Trait gains or loses a point such that it approaches a score of zero, representing the gradual erosion of their consciousness.''

==Impact on the Covenant==

''A well-supplied covenant should have little difficulty in surviving the collapsing of the spheres; they could simply lock their gates,''

[|

==Lunar Spore==

''Lunar Might: 1 Characteristics: Cun –5, Per –5, Pre –5, Com –5, Str –5, Sta –5, Dex –5, Qik –5 Size: –18 Qualities: Camouflage (+3 to rolls to hide when not moving) Magical Qualities: Improved Damage (bite) Combat: Bite: Init –5, Atk +4, Def +2, Dam –1 Wound Levels: Dead Abilities: Brawl (bite) 5, Stealth (shadow) 5 Appearance: a tiny sharp-pointed black seed suspended by a slender stalk from a parachute of fine black hairs.''

==Example Lunar Plant: Lost Robert==

''Robert was a young peasant farmer until the end of the world came. Robert and his family left their village, taking their livestock away to safe ground. Robert, however, was bitten by something in the night and awoke to find himself rooted to the ground and unable to leave. His family left him, fearful of trying to help. He is almost overcome by the time the player characters come across him and both legs and an arm are now blackened, split, and rooted to the ground. The thick tendrils claw their way to his face and now and then his remaining free arm pulls at them so that he may breathe a little easier.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex –4, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 16 (16) Decrepitude: 0''
''Warping Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Peasant; Enduring Constitution; Weak Characteristics, Poor Dexterity × 1 Personality Traits: Fearful +1 Combat: Fist: Init –1, Attack –1, Defense +3, Damage +2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (cattle), Area Lore: Home Village 3 (people), Athletics 1 (run), Awareness 3 (search), Bargain 1 (produce), Brawl 3 (fist), Carouse 1 (power drinking), English 5 (slang), Farmer 2 (plowing), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), Guile 3 (lying to authority), Ride 2 (mule), Survival 2 (sleeping rough) Equipment: Workman’s clothes Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A forlorn figure of a young man locked into a reclining pose. His limbs are split open and blackened roots protrude from them and from his abdomen into the ground. He tries to cover himself with a blanket out of shame, but it too is now becoming part of him. He has one good arm, which he uses to try to shield himself from those who chance upon him.''
''Lost Robert suffers a –5 Fatigue penalty to all actions that he takes, which given his condition are necessarily few. He still has his memories, but his personality is all but gone.''

|]
''guard their walls, and protect their resources from the desperate population beyond. However, as noted above, the effects of the environment and famine on the covenant’s area do have an effect in terms of living conditions modifiers. These can be abated through magic and covenants may want to design specific magical effects to protect themselves. It isn’t just a lack of food, however. It is hard to procure new glasswork when the craftsmen have fled their workshops and harder still to find herbs and plants when the woodlands are aflame. There is also the question of giving those tradesmen who remain the price they ask for their services. Instead of silver, they may seek safety and sanctuary with the magi. A covenant that protects itself but not its allies may find itself under pressure or attack. A mundane leader needing to reassert his authority might direct his people to the covenant to take it from the heathen magi. Similarly, the roads become flush with robbers, which makes travel for Redcaps increasingly difficult. Grogs may seek to bring their families to safety; a trusted and loyal grog may try to bring their brother, sister, or cousin into the covenant away from the horrors of the outside. But how do the magi manage this? If all covenfolk were free to do this then how far would the resources stretch? The unquiet dead may also seek sanctuary at the covenant. With few burials performed according to scripture, the ghosts of the dead are free to walk. They, along with magical beasts in search of safe and secure auras, may head to the covenant.''

==Magic After the Apocalypse==

''With the fall of the lunar sphere, what was once beyond the understanding of Hermetic magi is suddenly very close. The apocalypse introduces a new Supernatural Realm, Lunar, representing the scattering of the lunar sphere across Mythic Europe. The working of magic within this new realm is challenging and material originating from the lunar sphere is beyond the understanding of Hermetic Magic Theory. With the motion of the spheres ended, much common Hermetic Magic ceases to function as expected. Spells and device effects relying on Sun, Moon, or Year Duration become obsolete and fail. Those with Flexible Formulaic Magic or another means of altering the parameters of a known spell or device effect may still be able to use the effect in some way.''

==The Lunar Aura==

''In places where the lunar material rests upon the Earth, that matter starts to create a Lunar aura. Just as with any other supernatural aura, these Lunar auras range in size and intensity. This is typically defined by the spread of material across the area covered by the aura, and by the quantity of matter involved. Unlike other supernatural auras, this makes judging the strength of a Lunar aura''
''relatively easy — the greater the amount of Lunar matter, the stronger the aura. As the aura is closely tied to the material itself, areas under a Lunar aura can be cleared of that material, thereby reducing the power of that aura. Each season’s work spent clearing an area of Lunar material reduces the aura strength by one. The same could be achieved through Rego Craft Magic (Covenants, page 49), although being unable to directly sense the material remains a challenge. The cleared material must go somewhere, however. Unless magically destroyed, Lunar material transported elsewhere starts to generate a new Lunar aura. By each point that a given aura is reduced, either a new level one aura is created elsewhere or another target Lunar aura is increased by one level, depending on where the material is moved to.''

==Impact on Hermetic Magic==

''The effects of the apocalypse makes working Hermetic magic more difficult in several ways. First, the matter broken off from the Lunar sphere and crashed to Earth has produced a new supernatural Lunar realm, inimical to Hermetic magic. Second, the new cosmology means that the heavens no longer operate as before, which means that certain Hermetic Durations calculated and predicated on those heavenly motions simply fail. Third, as a result of the failure of Hermetic durations, the Aegis of the''
''Hearth ritual and even the Parma Magica, which are tied to the Year and Sun Durations, do not function.''
''Realm Interaction''
''The nearby Replacement Realm Interaction Table shows the power of the Lunar Realm as an outside and foreign force imposing itself upon the Earth. The aura is beyond the experience and nature of the Earthly powers and they experience large penalties when operating within a Lunar aura. Creatures and effects native to the lunar sphere are considered to part of that sphere and any effects they use are considered a Lunar Power for the purposes of realm interaction.''
''Durations''
''With the heavens disrupted, so too is Hermetic understanding of the world. The calculations used in casting spells and in device effects no longer make sense, given that the spheres are held in their places. The nearby table shows which Durations still function correctly and those that are beyond use. For those that are beyond use, magi may research replacements and a number of these have been suggested.''
''Parma Magica and the Aegis of the Hearth''
''The Sun and Year Durations are both disrupted once the lunar sphere falls. This means that both Parma Magica and the Aegis of the Hearth fail. This is a dangerous blow to the Order of Hermes as it leaves members exposed and vulnerable. If the Order can research new Durations, then the next step may be to research new versions of the Parma Magica and Aegis of the Hearth.''

==New Lunar Durations==

''The damage done to the nature of the world by the collapse of the lunar sphere means that much of the Order’s common magic loses its well-understood frames of reference. For instance, with no moon in the heavens the Moon duration no longer operates and all spells and device effects that make use of it cease to function. Magi may research new Durations, each requiring a Minor Breakthrough and around 30 Breakthrough Points (or 150 levels of experimental effects). Some examples are provided below but players are free to be creative.''
''The Burning of a Taper: Effects last for the duration of a lit taper, equivalent to the two minutes represented by standard Diameter effects. There is no requirement to light a taper during spells or effects with this Duration.''
''At the Waking or the Sleeping: Lasts until either the caster or the target next sleeps or wakes. Equivalent to Sun.''
''300 Miles: Lasts until the caster or any of the targets travels a total distance of 300 miles. Any distance moved at all adds to the accumulated distance. This is based on the distance on good roads that could be traveled during the standard Moon Duration. Equivalent to Moon.''
''The Weight of Years: The effect lasts until either the caster or the target is forced to make an aging roll. Where the caster and target are both younger than 35, this means that the effect may last several years. Artificially-induced aging rolls, through magic or other trauma, are sufficient to end the effect. Equivalent of Year. Requires a Ritual. Of course, magi may invent spells with non-standard Durations (as per ArM5, page 114) without first making the appropriate breakthrough, but the Duration is considered one magnitude greater than it would have been had it been formalized through research.''

[|

==Summary of Durations==

''The following table summarizes the status of the spell durations commonly used by Hermetic magi as well as some hedge wizards. Many of these, based as they are on cosmological cues, no longer function.''
''Standard Duration Status  Alternative Momentary  Functioning This duration remains as it is Ring  Functioning This duration remains as it is a form      of conditional duration Concentration Functioning This duration remains as it is a form      of conditional duration Diameter  Non-Functioning The Burning of a Taper Sun  Non-Functioning At the Waking or the Sleeping Moon  Non-Functioning 300 Miles Year  Non-Functioning The Weight of Years (until the caster      or the target makes an aging roll)''
''Durations granted by mystery cults or other traditions should be judged against this list.''

==New Realm Interaction Table==

''Lunar Power Magic Power Divine Power Faerie Power Infernal Power Lunar Aura + aura  – (5 x aura) no effect – (5 x aura) – aura Magic Aura – aura  + aura  no effect + (1/2 aura) – aura Divine Aura – (3 x aura) – (3 x aura) + aura  – (4 x aura) – (5 x aura) Faerie Aura – aura  + (1/2 aura) no effect + aura  – aura Infernal Aura	 – aura  – aura  no effect – (2 x aura) + aura''

|]
''Exotic Magic and Supernatural Beasts''
''Beyond the Order of Hermes, magical traditions across the world also feel the impact of the collapsing of the spheres. Durations used in their magic are affected in the same way, which limits their power just as it does for Hermetic magi. For the most part, the powers of supernatural beasts are unaffected by the Apocalypse. Even if their powers reference one of the prohibited durations, these are considered to be outside of cosmological influence and tied to the beast itself.''
''Infernal and Divine Powers''
''Infernal and Divine Powers are unaffected by the Apocalypse, with the exception of any aura-interaction penalties.''

==The End of Everything==

''It is possible that devastation will rain down on Mythic Europe for decades if not centuries to come. Unless it finds a way to deal with the new state of the world, the Order is at risk of losing its binding force; Houses and Tribunals dissolve, Redcap networks become disrupted, and individual magi and covenants are left to fend for themselves. What remains of the Order must move with uncharacteristic swiftness if it is to survive and the player magi are presented with the chance to show leadership.''

==Strategies for Surviving==

''The Apocalypse isn’t necessarily the end of the saga. The Earth has changed, so the challenge becomes one of surviving this new hostile world. There are a number of ways in which your player characters may approach that challenge, ranging from destroying the Lunar influence on the Earth to fleeing the world to the supernatural realms.''
''Learn Aetheric Magic''
''Slay utterly, old and young, both maids, and little children, and women: but come not near any man upon whom is the mark''
''Ezekiel: 9:3''
''The most immediate option for restoring a region is to destroy or remove the aetheric material that fell from the lunar sphere. The first step is to learn Aetheric Magic (as described below), which can be done either by recreating the research, likely with the help of the appropriate laboratory texts, or by initiation or tuition from members of House Criamon. If the magi can learn to target the aether then they could move or destroy it. As an alternative, they could bury it deep within the Earth. Riding the area of such material removes the lunar auras from that region, separates any Lunar denizens from their source of power, and restores much of the natural order of the Earth.''
''Learn Other Magics''
''There may be other types of magic to be learned, allowing the Order to rebuild. The experimental philosophy of Art & Academe is an entirely natural means of producing wondrous effects. It relies on the natural properties of substances and phenomena to allow the creation of Ligatures, which provide bonuses to given actions, or the invention and use of Formulae, which directly query or affect the natural''
''world. In particular, Alchemical Reagents may take natural processes to an extreme degree. While unable to mimic an unnatural effect, such as turning water into wood, it could turn water into extremely pure, cold, or hard ice. These effects are completely natural, which confounds magic resistance provided by Aegis of the Hearth or Parma Magica. Formulae are typically recorded in academic texts and seeking these texts out and learning their secrets provides a line of stories in this new world. Similarly, Objects of Virtue, as presented in Realms of Power: Magic, provide a low-power but reliable means of working magic. These are supernatural objects, animals, plants, and minerals, that grant powers or Virtues to those who use them. Their power is intrinsic and does not rely on an academic or folk understanding of magic. This means that any duration or similar parameter that the magus finds difficult after the apocalypse still functions as normal for these objects. They are typically of low power, but their reliability could be leveraged. The same is true of Extraordinary Vis, also described in Realms of Power: Magic, containing intrinsic spell, ritual, or device-like powers.''
''Regiones and the Supernatural Realms''
''With strong enough magic, magi could create deep regiones within which they could find some kind of sanctuary. They would exchange the supernatural and harmful effects of lunar auras and storms of aether for areas of confinement and warping for those they bring with them. Magi who withdraw to the Magic Realm find that their command over Hermetic magic returns to them, within the boundaries set out in Realms of Power: Magic. Routes into the Magic Realm operate as before, so if the magi can find either a magical beast able to step from the mundane world to the Magic Realm they can follow. Alternatively, they can get there by traversing a sequence of magical regiones. Escape into the Divine or Infernal Realms represents journeys from which there is no return. However, the Faerie Realm offers the same haven as the Magic Realm and the same opportunity to rebuild and plan. It is safe to assume that many magi, both Hermetic and otherwise, would take this route out. Some may intend to return, others to hide out their days. There is great story potential in trying to find those magi who may hold the key to restoring the world who have lost themselves within the Magic Realm.''

[|

==Initiation Script: Aetheric Magic==

''Target Level: 21 Script Bonus: +13 Description: The initiate must travel to Megiddo (+3), bringing vis to pay for their tuition (+1), where the mystagogue spends time teaching the initiate (+3). The initiation causes a version of a Criamon Stigma to manifest upon the initiate’s brow (+3). This grants the Disfigured Flaw. The initiate swears that they will further disseminate the knowledge of Aetheric Magic any way they can, gaining the Vow Minor Personality Flaw (+3).''

|]

==Dies Irae Appendix: Touching the Sky==

''Now, now, you stars that move in your right spheres, Where be your powers?''
''History of King John: Act V, Scene 7''
''This section explores the magical research undertaken by House Criamon, providing sample projects and some of the completed effects created along the way. The player characters may discover the research while it is still in progress, and this may offer ways to intervene and stop the Criamon. In addition to providing Laboratory Texts, Casting Tablets, and devices that the player characters may discover, these also provide guidance for players wishing to learn how to affect the super-lunar spheres, which could be pivotal to reversing the damage done by House Criamon. The breakthrough of Aetheric Magic (Hermetic Breakthrough requiring 100 breakthrough points) is completed by House Criamon during the course of this story. This opens the door to new breakthroughs related to the other spheres. There are two means of accumulating the required breakthrough points: through original research or through studying a source of insight. Both require the magus to study and develop new spells, rituals, or enchantments. As the magus develops more of these effects, so they learn until ultimately they complete their breakthrough into a new and unique understanding of Hermetic magic. The full rules for achieving these breakthroughs are not reproduced here, but references to the relevant books have been provided. In short, magi experiment upon effects with the aim of gaining a discovery on the Extraordinary Results table (ArM5, page 109). Once the discovery has been made and the effect successfully duplicated, each magnitude of effect contributes one breakthrough point toward the specific breakthrough. In the case of a Hermetic Breakthrough requiring 60 points, the magus must experiment upon and stabilize 300 levels-worth of effects. Alternatively, a magus may study a text, phenomenon, or from a tutor. This insight reveals the workings of a specific effect that may go beyond the accepted workings of''
''Hermetic magic. Recreating that effect using Hermetic understanding again provides one breakthrough point per magnitude. It is possible to invent new magical Durations that do not rely on cosmological time, and subsequently new versions of Parma Magica and the Aegis of the Hearth. Each of the new Durations represents a Minor Breakthrough requiring 30 breakthrough points, while a New Parma Magica or Aegis of the Hearth would take 60 points.''

==Hermetic Breakthrough: Aetheric Magic==

''The key to breaking the Limit of the Lunar Sphere is in learning how to affect the substance of the ethereal spheres themselves: aether. As discussed above, it has no discernible properties, exhibits a constant motion, and is resistant to change through mundane means. However, aether is present on the Earth. Its presence accounts for the way that the motion of the heavens is able to influence events and the fate and behavior of individuals under its sway. By understanding these effects House Criamon have gained the ability to affect aether itself; they have created the new Hermetic Form of Aether, allowing them to use the five Hermetic Techniques to create, inspect, change, manipulate, and destroy aether both on Earth and in the heavens. This is a true Hermetic Breakthrough requiring 100 breakthrough points. The original research projects must investigate or replicate some natural process that either interacts with or is influenced by aether. Insight can be gained from phenomena associated with aether, such as certain spirits. However these points are gained, a minimum of 20 points must be gained from projects associated with each of the Hermetic Techniques, which equates to 100 levels of experimental effects for each Technique. On completion of this project, the magus gains the Aetheric Magic Major Hermetic Virtue and the new Art of Aether at a starting score of 13 with a further nine experience points left over. This is based on the guideline presented in Ancient Magic, page 9, in which the researcher converts the Breakthrough Points to Experience Points, with which to buy the associated Ability. In this case, it is an Art being bought. 100XP buys a score of 13 for 91XP, leaving nine to carry forward.''

==Appendix: Aetheric Magic==

''The Major Hermetic Virtue of Aetheric Magic grants knowledge of the new Hermetic Form of Aether. This represents a form of matter previously hidden from Hermetic magic but which exhibits great force over earthly phenomena, such as the tides, the fates of individuals, and even the rise and fall of sickness and madness. As such, Aether spells can be used to heighten or reduce the influence of the heavens, to create aetheric objects, or to make changes to the nature of aether itself. The new Form is a full addition to Magic Theory and each of the Techniques can be applied to it in order to generate magical effects. The standard rules for accounting for rituals apply.''

==The Aetheric Library==

''Until the conclusion of the End of Time storyline, House Criamon possesses the only library of books on the Form of Aether and spells that use it. These spells and effects were created as a means to spread the knowledge of the new Form throughout the House.''
''New Spells''
''It is important to note that spells that create aetheric objects must still penetrate the Magic Resistance of anyone or anything they they are used against. However, as aether is a material unknown to Hermetic magic, magi without knowledge of the Form of Aether do not receive any Form bonus either as part of their Magic Resistance or as a soak bonus to reduce any damage received. Spells exist to create a base individual amount of aether at each level of density and to detect the presence of aether using the Vision Target. As Aether has few natural properties and given that magic finds it hard to create aether at high density, aether is illsuited to offensive magic in the same way as Ignem or Terram and few such spells exist.''
''The Unseen Barrier CrAe 35 R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual This spell creates a wall of aether, anchored to the ground, in an arc described by the caster. The wall has the density of tightly-packed earth and is four paces wide, by two paces tall, and about one pace thick, enough to arrest the charge of any assailants or projectiles. Like all aether, the wall itself is invisible, but it does give off a glow. (Base 25, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration)''
''The Fall CrAe 35 R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual''
''Creates an amount of aether with the density of earth that travels 50 paces in an arc during the round in which the spell is cast. If this aether is aimed at an individual, a Perception + Finesse roll is made against the target’s Defense roll. If successful, the target takes +30 damage. (Base 5, +4 for density of stone, +2 Voice)''
''The Edge of Reason CrAe(Co) 20 R: Sight, D: Moon, T: Individual Creates an amount of intangible aether within a target person. This influences the individual’s most prominent humor, which increases the individual’s strongest Personality Trait by 3 points and grants a new +3''
''Personality Trait for the spell’s duration according to the character’s dominant humor. Sanguine Hysteric Choleric Psychotic Melancholic Neurotic Phlegmatic Fearful (Base 1, +3 Sight, +3 Moon, +1 Corpus Requisite)''
''The Invisible Revealed InAe 20 R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Vision Allows the caster to see all aether in his presence, whether that aether is unbounded, intangible or dense, or manifest within another object or individual. This is sufficient to allow the caster''

[|

==Sample Aetheric Magic Projects==

''Laboratory notes for each of the following projects are in the possession of House Criamon. The examples below provide a total of 84 breakthrough points. There are also texts on many other failed experiments. See Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26 for details on the experimental process and Ancient Magic, page 8 for details of gaining insight.''
''Creo Projects''
''Beyond the two example projects below, a further 8 breakthrough points are needed from Creo effects.''
''The Gift of Moonlight CrIg 25 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Boundary, Ritual This ritual illuminates a standard boundary with moonlight equivalent to a full moon throughout a standard Moon Duration. Those brought within the boundary who would normally experience any effects or changes due to the full moon experience those while within the affected boundary. This demonstrates greater power than simple CrIg spells that just create light; the light created is moonlight carrying the aether that so affects people. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +4 Boundary)''
''Endurance of the Witch Moon Cr(Mu)Vi 35 R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual Similar to the common spell The Enigma’s Gift (ArM5, page 157), this spell causes the target to gain four Warping Points. However, in the case of characters with a specific response to Warping, the effect of these points is to force the target to undergo the Witch Moon just as if the affected target were a member of the Folk Witch hedge tradition, as described in Hedge Magic: Revised Edition, page 42. Enduring the Witch Moon is automatic. This replaces the normal effects of gaining two or more Warping Points, which for Hermetic magi is a roll for Twilight. This effect is inspired by observing the Witch Moon endured by a subject Folk Witch. If you are not using the Hedge Magic: Revised Edition rules, then the following should suffice: The target immediately develops a fever, treated as a Medium Wound. For the period of a month, the target is unable to draw upon their Gift either to use Supernatural Abilities or to cast spells. This potentially disrupts laboratory work, although the use of enchanted devices is unaffected. At the end of the month, make a roll to see if the Witch Moon has passed:''
''To End Witch Moon: Stamina – Warping Score + stress die vs Ease Factor 6''
''If this roll fails, then the target gains another Warping Point and the Witch Moon lasts for another month, inflicting another Medium Wound on the due to fever. Roll again at the end of the second month and so forth, until the target recovers. If the roll to end the Witch Moon is botched, the target gains an additional number of Warping Points equal to the number of 0s of the botch die. Note that the penalties due to wounds do not affect this roll. (Base 20, +2 Voice, +1 special)''
''Intellego Projects''
''If the projects below are completed, no further breakthrough points from Intellego effects are needed.''
''Know the Quality of the Man InCo 35 R: Touch, D: Year, T: Individual, Ritual The caster of this ritual gains information on the target’s location and the state of the humors within the target Individual, who must be present throughout the casting of the ritual, across the duration of a year. This allows the magus to record the changes in the target’s humors in response to celestial events and circumstances appropriate for their location. In doing so, the magus learns more about the effects of aether upon the humors, ultimately enough to detect the very aether itself once the final breakthrough has been made. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +4 year)''

==Sample Aetheric Magic Projects (Cont’d)==

''Know the Moon’s Influence InMe 15 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Individual Determines the extent to which the moon and its pull upon earthly aether is affecting the target individual. This may reveal, for instance, whether an individual with lycanthropy is close to undergoing a change, an individual with Cyclic Magic tied to the moon is experiencing a bonus or a penalty, or any Personality Traits are under lunar influence. (Base: 4, +3 Sight)''
''Observe the Color of the (Sphere) Sphere InVi 50 Pen +0, 1 use per Day R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Vision Enchanted into a lens, this effect detects subtle variations in light emitted by the specified sphere, with each lens designed for a particular celestial sphere as denoted by the symbols engraved around its edge. The effect is designed to detect the active magical influence of the spheres, so the base level is relatively low. The effect must collect as much separate information as possible and so the additional magnitudes required increase the level of the effect. (Base: 5, +1 Concentration, +4 vision, +1 for non-Hermetic, +2 Technique and Form; Modifications: +5 Device maintains concentration)''
''Muto Projects''
''The two projects below provide all the required breakthrough points required from Muto effects.''
''Curse of the Werewolf MuCo(An, Me) 45 R: Touch, D: Year, T: Individual, Ritual Over the course of a year, the target suffers from lycanthropy: the curse of the werewolf. With each full moon, the target transforms into the semblance of a wolf, losing both human body and mind to be replaced by lupine savagery. The effect goes beyond Hermetic understanding through the continued response to the moon without recourse to a device effect or linked trigger. This effect is inspired by observing the repeated transformations of a werewolf.''
''(Base 10, +1 Touch, +4 Year, +1 for Mentem requisite, +1 special effect)''
''Alteration of the Birth Horoscope MuCo(Vi) 55 R: Touch, D: Year, T: Individual, Ritual Using insight from the observations of three-score horoscopes, this spell masks the essential birth horoscope for the given target, altering the effects of the heavens upon the target. Horoscopes created for this individual fail unless calculated using new birth information defined during the ritual, including the place, date, and time of birth, among other factors. Effects that derive a horoscope from a magical understanding of the target function as normal, but any information gained relates to the altered birth information. The original horoscope reasserts itself at the end of the spell’s duration. The effect is inspired by taking horoscopes for three-score individuals, each related to one or more of the others. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +4 Year)''
''Perdo Projects''
''If the projects below are completed, a further two breakthrough points are needed from new Perdo effects.''
''The Becalmed Harbor PeAq 55 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Part, Ritual This project removes the naturally-occurring aether from within the waters of a harbor or bay. In doing so, the aether in the heavens is unable to influence the motion of the waters and all tides stop throughout the Moon Duration. The ocean neither rises nor falls as before, but rather retains the level at the point it occupies when the ritual concludes. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +1 Part, +3 Size)''
''Heighten the Mind PeMe 35 R: Voice, D: Moon, T: Individual Removes four points of Personality Traits from the individual, which return one-by-one across the Duration. They are taken from weakest Personality Trait first.''
''When that reaches zero, the next least prominent Trait is affected. Negative Traits are similarly affected, but their scores are increased toward zero. This has the effect of removing the checks and balances afforded by the lesser Personality Traits, leaving the mind influenced by its most prominent Traits only. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +3 Moon)''
''Rego Projects''
''A further six breakthrough points from Rego effects are needed if the projects below are completed.''
''The Strengthening Tide ReAq 40 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Part This spell makes the movement of the tides more extreme throughout a port or natural bay, forcing them to rise higher and fall lower, and with greater speed. The effects are to impose a –1 penalty to all swimming and sea-faring rolls and totals along the affected coast. By observing the motion of the tides for a season or more in conjunction with the brightness of the moon, the magus gains insight into the effect that heavenly aether has upon the aether resident within the oceans. By replicating and strengthening that effect across the Moon Duration, the magus learns more about how aether behaves. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +1 Part, +3 Size)''
''The Mania of Others ReMe 30 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual This spell moves the mania or other mental illness from one individual to another for Moon Duration. The two individuals must have different dominant humors (Sanguine, Choleric, Melancholic, and Phlegmatic) for the effect. The mania returns to the originating individual after this point. This provides the magus with an understanding of how shifts in these humors, as might be induced by the movement of the heavens, affect the mind. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Moon, +1 special)''

|]
''to then affect that aether with further spells. (Base 3, +1, +4 Vision)''
''Aetheric Fire MuAe(Ig) 35 R: Sight, D: Concentration, T: Individual This spell gives the target intangible aether the unnatural quality of heat. The default quality makes the aether noticeably warm, but does no damage. However, this effect increases the intensity of the heat such that it does +10 damage to those within the area of effect. This effect has a number of advantages over the much lower level equivalent CrIg effect. First, the aetheric fire cannot itself be affected by non-aetheric effects, second if the aether is intangible it can pass through physical barriers in its way, and third those caught in the fire do not benefit from any Ignem Form bonus they might possess.''
''(Base 10, +3 Sight, +1 Concentration, +1 intensity)''
''Laboratory Texts''
''Translated laboratory texts exist for all spells contained in the library.''
''Arcane Knowledge''
''The library contains four Tractatus on the Art of Aether at Quality 9 and four at quality 8. These are accompanied by the four summae, each at Level 4, two at Quality 9 and two at Quality 10. Each of these twelve volumes may be studied as a source of insight (as per the rules in Ancient Magic) and each provides inspiration for one of the projects''
''used to create the Hermetic Form of Aether. There are no books yet on Lunar Lore, the new Ability governing knowledge of the auras across Mythic Europe. There is no knowledge at all of that new supernatural realm until at least after Wormwood falls to Earth. Only then do magi and others start to learn about this strange new power.''

[|

==The Form of Aether (Ae)==

''Aether is the Art governing the aether that forms the heavenly spheres and is found within objects, living and dead, upon the Earth. The base Individual for Aether depends upon its density. The base Individual for intangible aether is a circle of the sky equal in size to the sun. However, it is possible to manipulate aether at higher densities, such as the density of fire, air, water, earth, stone, and metal, though this typically involves increased magnitudes of effect. At these densities, the size of the''
''base Individual is equal to the equivalent Hermetic Form. Where the aether within earthly matter is targeted, the base Individual is as appropriate for that earthly matter. Aether exhibits a constant circular motion from East to West. This is also true of aether created through Creo Aethera effects. Its speed of motion is determined by its density; one pace per round for a density of metal, ten paces per round for stone, 100 paces for earth, 1,000 for water, 10,000 for fire, 100,000 for air, and 1,000,000 for intan''
''gible aether. To the best of Hermetic understanding, there are at least ten Provinces in the Magic Realm, each associated with one of the ten accepted Hermetic Forms (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 24). Magi who gain knowledge of the new Form of Aether may recognize the associated Province on future visits to the Magic Realm. Form Bonus: Soak against damage inflicted by aether, rolls to resist the influence of aether on the humors. Pronounced “AY-ther” and “Ay-ther-Ah”''

==The Form of Aether (Ae) (Cont’d)==

''Creo Aethera Guidelines''
''Creo Aethera spells create a quantity of aether. Creating that aether in some unusual or worked shape is one magnitude higher than the listed values. Having no conventional physical properties, aether is intangible at its lowest density, but it can be brought together into progressively more dense accretions, accounting for the moon and stars. While aether itself remains invisible regardless of density, it does emit light, which becomes brighter as the aether becomes more dense.''
''Level 1: Create an amount of   intangible aether. Level 3: Create an amount of   aether with the density    of fire. Level 5: Create an amount of    aether with the density    of air. Level 15: Create an amount of    aether with the density    of water. Level 25: Create an amount of    aether with the density    of earth. Level 30: Create an amount of    aether with the density    of stone or glass. Level 35: Create an amount of    aether with the density    of metal.''
''Intellego Aethera Guidelines''
''Intellego Aethera spells are not affected by the density of the aether. They allow the magus to detect the presence of aether, any unnatural properties or qualities given the aether, and to communicate with entities formed from aether. As aether is naturally invisible, only giving off light, a magus cannot normally see aether even at high densities. Intellego Aethera spells allow the magus to sense aether, which is sufficient to then target that aether with''
''further magical effects.''
''Level 1: Sense the presence of    unbounded aether. Level 3: Sense the presence of    aether within another    material. Level 5: Sense unnatural    properties possessed    by aether. Level 15: Speak with an aetheric    spirit. Level 20: Speak with an aetheric    creature. Level 25: Speak with an aetheric    plant.''
''Muto Aethera Guidelines''
''Muto Aethera spells grant properties that aether would otherwise not have and to transmute it into another substance. The guidelines below are for intangible aether. Add successive magnitudes for aether with densities of fire, air, water, earth, stone, and metal.''
''Level 1: Give aether the    property of emitting    one type of sensory    species. Level 3: Give aether the    property of emitting    three types of sensory    species. Level 5: Give aether the    property of emitting    five types of sensory    species. Change the   speed of aether’s    natural motion. Level 10: Give aether an    unnatural property,    such as heat, cold,    dryness, or moisture. Level 15: Change aether into    one of the elemental    Forms (Aquam,    Auram, Ignem,    Terram)''
''Level 20: Change aether into    one of the living Forms    (Animal, Corpus,    Herbam, Mentem) Level 25: Change aether into    one of the intangible    Forms (Imaginem,    Vim)''
''Perdo Aethera Guidelines''
''Perdo Aethera spells may be used to destroy an amount of aether. Doing so is particularly difficult, however. The guidelines below are for intangible aether. Add successive magnitudes for aether with densities of fire, air, water, earth, stone, and metal.''
''Level 5:	 Destroy a single property of aether. Level 10:	Destroy a quantity of free aether. Level 15:	Destroy a quantity of aether contained within other material.''
''Rego Aethera Guidelines''
''Rego Aethera moves aether between naturally-occurring densities, allowing the magus to accrete aether into higher densities or to disperse it into lower density. Magnitude adjustments are required based on the highest density. Aether does not naturally return to its former density, instead remaining in its magically-induced state.''
''Level 2: Ward an individual or    area against aether. Level 3: Change the density of    aether within the    target area. Level 5: Move aether from one    location to another.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
