''The end of the world need not arrive in fire and blood; it could come with the cold, inexorable march of ice and snow. The Fimbulwinter supposedly heralds the coming of Ragnarok, and while eddas foretell blustery snow for three consecutive seasons, the prematurely invoked winter described here washes over the world and remains until its power is broken. The result is bleak world without summer, full of starvation and misery. A group of Jotun-bound servants, known as the Muspelli and detailed in Rival Magic, plans to precipitate Fimbulwinter. This is the Muspelli’s very purpose, but until this moment, their Gift has prevented them from coming together. The player magi might well realize that there is a conspiracy to enact Fimbulwinter before it succeeds. In such situations, a covenant is faced with the hard decision of preparing to survive the coming perpetual Winter or attempting to stop its fulfillment.''
''Few communities possess the resources for both, and at its heart, this saga is an asymmetric war against a foe who needs no power bases beyond the necessities to create Fimbulwinter, while the covenant must decide whether to oppose the Muspelli or commit to expeditions sent to prepare new sanctuaries, frantically collecting supplies and personnel, all while enduring a situation which is constantly getting worse.''

==To Stand Against Winter==

''For Hermetic wizards working to stop Fimbulwinter, many options exist for investigating the Muspelli as they prepare to enact their grand strategy, but the saga is ideally set in a Tribunal such as the Greater Alps (the northern portion), Normandy, Novgorod (the Baltic states), or Rhine. Others regions, like Hibernia, Loch Leglean, Provence, or Stonehenge require a bit more work on the part of the storyguide. Sagas set in the latter regions both put the Muspelli at an advantage due to the distance between the magi and the majority of the Muspelli activities, and draw attention to Muspelli operations near the Hermetic magi because of their novelty.''

==The Saga’s Scope and Focus==

''The Muspelli plan to bring winter to all of Mythic Europe through circumstances enabled by a perfect combination of individual leadership and inspiration derived''
''from the knowledge of the chained Norse giants. A single, Gently Gifted Muspelli named Ingvar leads them as a distributed cabal. He has managed a breakthrough. Ingvar discovered a way to alter the ritual used to summon their Jotun (pl. Jotnar) patrons, and instead summon Aspects of the Daimon of Fimbulwinter, a feat no other Muspelli has managed before. Ingvar believes that once these Aspects are unleashed on Mythic Europe, civilization will be sufficiently disrupted by the ensuing Fimbulwinter that the Muspelli will be able to either rule the ruins or free Loki and bring about Ragnarok. In a situation not unlike the very early Order, he has managed to convince a group of Muspelli to work with him, and they are committed to his plan, even if they don’t trust or even don’t know each other. Because this plan doesn’t require the Muspelli to work together, but simply all perform the same activity in different places, it stands a reasonable chance of success. The pagan wizards plan to unleash multiple Aspects of the very embodiment of Fimbulwinter itself. By enacting a special variant of their ceremonial spells, called utiseta, at various pagan holy places known as Irminsul, the Muspelli summon powerful Magical spirits driven to cover the world in snow and ice. This time-consuming and challenging process requires that the Muspelli gather resources, find proper locations, and finally cast their utiseta at different locations all across Mythic Europe. However, the fact no one knows their intent or their targets gives the Muspelli the advantage. Only they know they are at war as this saga begins. Once they know the locations of Irminsul and learn the ritual to summon Aspects, there is no arbitrary date or time when the summoning must occur; the Muspelli can simply continue unleashing an Aspect for every Irminsul they find and replacing defeated''

=Fimbulwinter: The Cold Doom=

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==What You Need To Run This Saga==

''Fimbulwinter absolutely relies on the Muspelli section of Rival Magic, with some material from Realms of Power: Magic. Rival Magic should be considered essential. Realms of Power: Magic is extremely useful for generating additional magical foes and some of the Muspelli shapeshifting forms. Tribunal books like Guardians of the Forest, The Lion and the Lily, and The Contested Isle provide useful material to storyguides who have not defined these areas but wish to set events there. If desired, Hedge Magic has details for those wishing to use hedge witches and vitkir as foes or allies, but their inclusion in this saga isn’t required.''

|}
''Aspects with new summons when necessary. With Fimbulwinter established, the Muspelli believe the liberation of Loki and the commencement of Ragnarok are imminent, possibly leading into another of the sagas offered within this book. The saga starts very close to the beginning of the Muspelli’s plans, and must consider the Muspelli process of building personal power by acquiring their personal talismans, known as gandur (pl. gandar), and performing the scouting expeditions later allowing them to create Fimbulwinter. It must hint at the machinations to distract their enemies and the slow acquisition of undead warbands meant to decimate local communities now, and serve as the Muspelli’s foot soldiers later. This saga should consider the Muspelli cognizant enough of the Order of Hermes to know they must be wary of it, but not so familiar with Hermetic magi that they take every potential precaution. It considers the divisive internal politics which wrack the Order after their discovery. However, the saga cannot create a story with a foregone conclusion. There’s little entertainment in a tale which occurs completely off-screen and then imposes a terrible cataclysm without warning. The Order of Hermes must have an opportunity to interfere and succeed.''

==Introducing the Enemy==

''The presentation of a long-term opponent, like the Muspelli, requires a slow and steady hand. Early in the saga, the Muspelli should be directly encountered very rarely; the only evidence of their existence should be the consequences of their actions, the victims of their ambition, or the broken survivors of their arrogance. This means that the Muspelli should begin with some allies, to better allow for the necessary distance between them and the player covenant. Consider the saga in three stages.''
''The First Stage, Beginning the Path''
''The start of this saga involves stories foreshadowing the plans for Fimbulwinter, where the magi encounter the aftermath or the servants of the Muspelli as they search for at least two Irminsul, collect vis, perform personal initiations, develop their powers, and build alliances. Such arcs gradually increase tension, providing opportunities to investigate and possibly discover the larger plot, but often leave''
''the magi to believe that the individual, strange pagan wizards are operating with unrelated intentions. This stage gradually builds, as the Muspelli roam across Mythic Europe; consider at least one story for the Muspelli to improve themselves, another arc where they are gathering resources like vis, allies, or information on potential targets, and a third storyline where they discover either the covenant’s Irminsul or another one in the region. More storylines are certainly possible, as the Muspelli and covenant interact. This phase might take three to seven years, or longer, depending on the pace you wish to set for your saga.''
''The Second Stage, Emerging Threat''
''Stage two begins when the Muspelli realize the need to make preparations for Hermetic interference while they continue searching. Many or all of them have found one Irminsul and search for a second. The Muspelli occasionally pause their search to build more alliances with mundanes and create mobs of patiently waiting Walking Dead, sabotage vis sites, and identify other hedge wizards or supernatural creatures for''
''later sacrifice. The Muspelli are a very patient tradition, who take the time to learn what threats exist around their objectives, and create situations to observe how local powers respond. Muspelli who have located at least two Irminsul return to Ingvar to complete their initiation, learning the ceremony that will summon an Aspect of Fimbulwinter. This phase might take five to seven years.''
''The Third Stage, Unleashing Winter''
''Armed with their newfound knowledge of the Aspect summoning, the Muspelli now scatter back across Mythic Europe, returning to their previously identified Irminsul sites to enact the ritual. With the magic spirits loosed upon the countryside, the Muspelli continue looking for more Irminsul, seeking out other Muspelli whom they can train to master the summoning, and engaging in general acts of disruptive mayhem using the information they learned and the resources they put in place during the first stage. What had been a nebulous or shadowy threat now escalates into active conflict as Fimbulwinter spreads its frigid blanket across the world; the char''
''acters must either address the problem or deal with the consequences. If the magi ignored many of the Muspelli threats prior to this stage, then this might prove quite difficult as many Aspects are released. On the other hand, this stage could be easier, with few Aspects released, if the magi effectively contained and addressed the Muspelli threat. This phase may take a year or two years to blossom into its full glory and continues until the Muspelli or the magi die. Considering these objectives helps link the saga’s progression to actual story arcs, and simplifies the process of designing stories.''

==Winter’s Heralds==

''The distributed and cellular nature of the Muspelli cabal and its supporters means hunting for each member presents its own challenge. While this material presents several members and their etinmods, a storyguide should also utilize the two Muspelli offered in Rival Magic (pages 87 and 88). Statistics for these antagonists are presented in Appendix 1. Remember, they do not suffer from General flaws''
''while in their etin-mod. While these individuals regularly operate with a small band of followers who are comfortable with the Muspelli’s presence and commands, much like covenfolk, mapping out their development provides storyguides a better idea of where they can be found at any time. Leif and Kotkill are weaker Muspelli, more suited as early foes who might be defeated physically. Gunnvara and Magnus are best considered median foes, challenging the characters as the story builds to a climax, while Ingvar fills the role of grizzled zealot leader.''
''Kotkill Ulfsbrodir''
''Youngest of the Muspelli presented at the age of 25, Kotkill’s statistics can be found on page 87 of Rival Magic. Feral and Mute in human form, Kotkill lurks on the fringes of civilization where he can hunt man and beast alike while running with the pack of wolves led by his foster brother Wolf of Virtue (Realms of Power: Magic, page 55). His skill with Sjonhverling means the pack can ambush foes seemingly out of nowhere. He is swift and rapacious, and commonly ranges quite far, seeking out prey and potential uti''
''seta sites. He was the most difficult member for Ingvar to recruit, and while he understands the plan, Kotkill sees Fimbulwinter as his chance to hunt anything anywhere in creation with impunity. This glorious world sounds like paradise to Kotkill, and so he happily pursues Ingvar’s agenda.''
''Leif Ormsbrodir''
''Leif favors coastal regions and ports, where he can attack merchants and remote communities with relative impunity. While not as experienced as the other Muspelli, he is a very physical force. His powers of Shapeshifting can prove quite dangerous for opponents, whether he takes the form of a lindwurm or bear for a raid while retaining his intelligence, or turns a foe into a salmon. Storyguides should tailor his known shapes based on the region where they place him, but a wide variety is best. His Mute flaw in human form means he is safe from nearly all mundane interrogation, and he might operate alone, but his Weakness for women and his Curse of Venus mean Leif is inclined to seek out taverns and alehouses, hungering for some kind of social interaction, even if it’s impacted by his Gift. He deeply desires to rule men and be desired, to create a legacy, and feels creating Fimbulwinter provides the opportunity to gain those things.''
''Magnus Norn''
''Magnus actually works to infiltrate aspects of mundane society, despite the negative effects of his Gift. He plants suggestions and coordinates otherwise unwitting mundane allies to support Muspelli actions. Magnus’ weakness for alcohol serves as a potential method for thwarting him, how''
''ever. His powers of Entrancement, Premonitions, Threads of Fate and Sjonhverling mean Magnus can operate very effectively from the shadows, serving as a hated but secretive spymaster who can bring otherwise impossible-to-coordinate forces to bear on Muspelli activities. His regular Premonitions and the magical defense associated with Spadomur can help keep the Muspelli one step ahead of the player characters or provide unexpected advantages. Magnus believes in the Muspelli’s cause with nearly the same fervor as Ingvar; he hopes to free and serve Loki, becoming a great power in the shattered world to come.''
''Gunnvara Jarnvidja''
''For Gunnvara, consider exchanging her Entrancement score (9+2) with her Valgaldrar score (6) when referencing her statistics from page 88 of Rival Magic. She focuses primarily on acquiring hosts of Walking Dead for later attacks on communities and to defend utiseta sites as Muspelli cast. She uses her Shapeshifting to travel quickly between locations, giving her a vast range, though she is described as being focused in Denmark and Germany, and animals should be appropriate to the regions where she operates. When not hunting Irminsul, she haunts battlefields, plague outbreaks, leper colonies, and war-torn regions, taking up as many of the fallen as possible and marching them away under the cover of darkness. Gunnvara works to conceal many of these hordes all over Mythic Europe. She sees Fimbulwinter as her chance to crush the Church and punish the society which has always marginalized her. She finds Magnus strangely attractive, but doesn’t quite know how to address these feelings.''
''Ingvar Suttungja''
''Ingvar is presented as the leader, the visionary founder of the Fimbulwinter campaign, and takes on a persona as “Lokeshafr,” or Loki’s Goat, when dealing with other Muspelli. His Gentle Gift and wide filial ties to a mercenary company give him an excellent base of mundane power, while his Gentle Gift and Unaffected by the Gift Virtues make him the most capable of inspiring the rest of the Muspelli. Ingvar begins the saga knowing the location of one Irminsul, and when the''
''first Muspelli locates an Irminsul, he learns of the Egesterenstein (See The Egesterenstein, later) as a second Irminsul. He preaches a message of Jotnar supremacy, where the Muspelli need not work together in order to cooperate and achieve their goals, and that is very attractive. Ingvar’s strengths in Valgaldrar, Wildfire, and Winter’s Breath mean his role becomes more prominent as the conflict escalates. He makes an appearance as a false Aspect of a Jotun or Fimbulwinter, as volcanoes erupt or Fimbulwinter utiseta claim communities. More details on his activities during each stage are given later in this chapter. For Ingvar, Fimbulwinter is meant as an act of revenge for the loss of his wife and son, and as a triumph of the Old Ways over Christianity. However, he knows a plan with this many parts has many, many places where it can fail, and that is why he takes the precautions described later in this chapter.''
''The Tools At Hand''
''Much like established magi in the Order, the Muspelli possess companions who are inured to the Muspelli and their Gift and assist them in their activities. Initial allies for each might include:''
''• Nordic pirates who work with Leif. Consider statistics for the “Tough Guy,” on ArM5, page 22. They know little, but work with him to capture vessels he damages and give him a cut of the loot. • Werewolf tribes and wolves who work with Kotkill. These may be from the Baltic or Scandinavian region, or even local, if appropriate. They fanatically serve him as an avatar of their kind. These are men who may become wolves; they use Berserker statistics in ArM5, page 21 with a Brawl of 5 (teeth) and the wolf combat statistics given nearby. • Soldiers and Mercenaries hired by Magnus. Consider statistics for the “Grizzled Veteran” and “Standard Soldier” on ArM5, pages 21–22. Often magically influenced, these are really just men-at-arms doing their occasionally distasteful work. • Folk Witches and Walking Dead commanded by Gunnvara. Sample folk witches are in Hedge Magic, pages 47–50. The witches are devoted to Gunnvara, as her patronage has allowed them to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Wolf Statistics==

''Combat: Teeth: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage 0 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16) Natural Weapons: Teeth: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Its thick fur gives it a Protection of +1.''

|}
''flourish. The Walking Dead are either freshly made or drawn from frozen reserves she has hidden over the years. • Seasoned Mercenaries and possibly a rogue vitki serving with Ingvar. Use the “Berserker” statistics on ArM5, page 21 for his mercenaries, who might even be former members of the Varangian Guard in Constantinople, who have returned disillusioned by what they saw. A good warrior vitki example is in Hedge Magic, page 141. These agents trust and believe in Ingvar’s vision, but don’t necessarily know where he is. Only his sons directly converse with him. • Manifested Aspects of the Muspelli’s Jotun Aspects, which use the Norse giant statistics from Realms of Power: Magic, page 87. Ingvar has discovered how to summon these lesser Aspects of the Jotnar with a variant of the ritual used to summon a Muspelli’s patron and taught this as a part of convincing the Muspelli to join. However, they are used very sparingly until the Aspects of Fimbulwinter are freed.''
''Muspelli have these allies create distractions while they perform utiseta, probe defenses, and gather the resources necessary to enjoy a pleasant standard of living during Fimbulwinter.''

==Seasons of Conflict: Saga Pacing and Structure==

''While every troupe is different, as a guideline, consider roughly two or three stories per Muspelli for each of the first two stages. By the third stage, there are several potential scenarios offered for different facets of the Muspelli releasing the Aspects of Fimbulwinter, including an attack on the players’ covenant. This allows for saga progression at your preferred pace. There is no hard and fast deadline for the actions of the Muspelli; they come to pass when the storyguide wants them to occur. Several methods for introducing these incidents are presented here, along with potential developments and consequences. Naturally, the Muspelli should respond to the actions of the player characters.''
''For Evil to Triumph...''
''This particular saga has a very “scripted sequence” approach, offering the various stories as potential events the player characters may or may not investigate. There is the possibility the Hermetics will do nothing in a given season. It is acceptable to have an early encounter or two with the Muspelli where the player covenant is left baffled, wondering “who were those men?” When presenting a potential hook from the Muspelli, do not force a response from the player characters. It could be the group feels something local, political, or''
''more immediate should have priority. Such a choice is completely acceptable, because it maintains verisimilitude, but the resulting consequences should apply to the plotline, allowing the larger story to progress even without player interaction, and have greater impact if player inaction results in disaster. Throughout the first two stages, when a possible Muspelli-associated story arc is presented and the players choose to pursue a different plotline, permit the Muspelli to achieve the intended goal, be it the cementing of a supernatural alliance, acquiring a new gandur, completing an initiation, or even discovering or securing access to an Irminsul. Then use the consequences and aftermath as potential hooks for later stories in which the Muspelli get closer to achieving their goal. The Muspelli do not initially know a player covenant has taken an interest in them. Until the conflict is common knowledge between the two groups, the Muspelli do not take extraordinary measures to conceal their actions. However, they maintain a minimum level of arcane security, removing any personal Arcane Connections whenever possible.''

==Saga Foundation: Laying the Groundwork==

''This saga outline assumes that the player covenant is in a fairly typical situation, with the normal neighbors. This foundation includes vis sites, regional groups of known Magical animals or''
''Faeries, regular Redcap visits, maybe a small group of hedge wizards or a coven of folk witches previously considered weak or innocuous, and perhaps a couple of small towns which have malleable attitudes toward the covenant. All of these elements mean easier hooks for Muspelli stories as this saga progresses, but the saga can easily handle the absence of one or two. If your player covenant is in a very unusual location, however, adaptation may need more work. The outline does assume that the covenant has one thing among its resources: an Irminsul. This old pagan object was an altar, a statue and a monument combined. Used by Celtic and Germanic tribes through the time of Charlemagne, an Irminsul was a carved standing stone which represented the World Tree, the heart of Creation from which all things came. The Roman Legions claimed or defaced many of these, though more survived. Charlemagne ordered their destruction as part of the pacification and''
''conversions which took place during the Saxon Wars in the later part of the 8th century. Some stand forgotten in remote and wild places, while others were taken as trophies, toppled by conquerors, and one was even incorporated into the cathedral of Hildesheim as a candelabrum. Irminsul might have even been used by the Diedne. If a player suggests a Pagan magus, consider offering the Germanic background and this vis source as an association, potentially building player investment for later story arcs. This Irminsul could be a covenant vis source, or represented by the Hidden Resources Boon, Contested Resource Hook, Fallen Temple Hook, Roman Ruins Hook, or the Ruined Covenant Hook. Knowing the local supernatural landscape is extremely important for this saga. Magical beasts and nearby faeries serve as potential targets for Muspelli seeking gandar, sacrificial victims, or possible allies. By determining what creatures roam and lair in the region surrounding the covenant, the storyguide may better plan which story seeds fit best. Some suggested options include courtly fae, tempter faeries like huldra or nymphs, Stags of Virtue, Wolves of Virtue, possibly sleeping drakes or giants in remote areas. These could be represented with the Mystical Allies Boon, the Monster Hook, the Resident Nuisance Hook, the Rival Hook, or the Faerie Court or Faerie Landlord Hooks. While a Redcap is only required to visit once a year, many reasons could motivate House Mercere to come knocking more frequently. The Redcap might be romantically interested in a member of the covenant. Members of the Redcap’s extended family could live there. The covenant could trade in goods, or produce something the Redcap enjoys. A covenant expert or craftsman might share interests with the regular messenger. All of these options provide a good reason for a Redcap to enjoy the covenant’s hospitality more often, bringing story seeds from elsewhere in the Tribunal or from a neighboring Tribunal. This could be represented by the Informants Boon, the minor Road Hook, the Mercer House Hook, or as part of a Dedicated Covenant Hook. Finally, it is very helpful to have an established nearby unGifted hedge tradition or a folk witch coven, which should not be part of the Order of Hermes. As lesser supernatural practitioners who complete Initiations to gain their powers, they could have an arrangement for protection with the covenant or a slightly resentful relationship, owing a''
''regular delivery of (possibly begrudged) vis, or serving as a source for otherwise rare or hard-won information. Consider making these lesser wizards related to a Companion character, or the source tradition for the Companion’s background to build investment in their survival, or present an avenue for their redemption, should the Muspelli turn them against the covenant. The minor Promised Favors Boon, the Protector Hook, the Favors Owed Hook, or the Hedge Tradition Hook could represent this.''
''The Irminsul''
''5 pawns of Rego per year This small stele is carved to resemble a tree with nine branches, and a split, fluted top, vaguely resembling a letter “T” or an uppercase letter “I.” Its sides have faded, nearly imperceptible Futhark runes. In midwinter, if it is festooned with boughs of holly, ivy, mistletoe, yew, and pine, the branches contain the vis after the Solstice. Otherwise, the vis gathers in icicles which form on the split arms. There is a Magic aura of 2 here. This source costs 25 Build Points.''

==First Stage: Beginning the Path==

''These events are intended to act as the introduction to the saga, giving hints of the Muspelli while establishing the growth of the Muspelli’s personal power. The servants of the Jotnar know they need to find the Irminsul in order to later unleash a worldwide Fimbulwinter, but they also know they need to become more capable before they can execute their plan. They also recognize the need to develop long-term resources to deal with any opposition and learn how that opposition reacts to trouble. Most of the Muspelli begin the campaign without knowing exactly how to accomplish their goal, only that they need to increase their power and mastery of Muspelli Lore, develop resources and learn about the region, and discover two Irminsul sites. It may seem counter-intuitive that the Muspelli do not''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sidebar: “How did the Irminsul get There?”==

''The Irminsul were primarily a religious aspect of the Celtic, Gaulish, Germanic, and Scandinavian tribes, and as such, they are more common in the Greater Alps, Normandy, and Rhine Tribunals, as well as the Baltic states of the Novgorod Tribunal. They usually took the form of a pillar or standing stone, carved in some way to represent Yggdrasil, the World Tree. The Roman legions often captured them as trophies, and brought them back to install in old temples, temples which later became churches, or in town squares, which might have suffered any number of calamities in the following centuries. As Christianity spread, many proselytizers appropriated Irminsul and subverted them by establishing churches over them. Local builders, not caring about the history of a conveniently available piece of cut stone, could have incorporated an Irminsul into a structure, left it in a debris pile, or it might have been secreted away by a tribe hoping to save it from the legionnaires’ grasp. Earlier, pagan members of the Order may have reestablished an Irminsul in the years''

|}

==Sidebar: “How did the Irminsul get There?” (Cont’d)==

''leading up to the Schism War, or as a part of failed Bonisagus research. This variety means you can scatter a number of the lost and forgotten altars where you need them to draw in the Muspelli, even to a region they might not usually operate, and make the saga suitably interesting for the troupe. The Irminsul should be relatively whole, but may have been reassembled with mortar. It can be moved to a new location and still serve its purpose. It does not matter what kind of aura an Irminsul resides in. None of the Muspelli can create an Irminsul, but a Christian ritual does create one for a short period. This is described in a later section, Sunday, Laetare Sunday. Irminsul serve as Arcane Connections to the Aspects of Fimbulwinter, but not to each other. Certainly, one option for the characters is to hunt down the Irminsuls before the Muspelli, and destroy them. For the Muspelli, they use Muspelli Lore to find an Irminsul in a region over the course of a season or story. Magi may only locate Irminsul (other than their covenant’s vis source) with a story event for a season.''

==Why All The Plans?==

''Why don’t the Muspelli simply appear, summon Aspects of Fimbulwinter, and disappear? There are several reasons for this beyond the story’s metaplot. First, Irminsul are fairly rare. These relic objects need to be found and secured, so that the Muspelli can safely summon the Aspect. Controlling the Irminsul means that not only the first summoning is successful, but that further summonings can be performed, after the Aspect is first defeated. The relative rarity of the Irminsul mean the Muspelli can not simply ignore one controlled by the covenant. Second, only one Aspect may be summoned at a time per Irminsul, and Lokishafr wants to overwhelm Mythic Europe with multiple Aspects at once, which requires locating multiple Irminsuls. If the Aspects appeared individually, they might be easily defeated. Multiple Aspects of Fimbulwinter also create confusion as stories from survivors make it seem as if the Aspects can be in many places at once. Third, Lokishafr wants to minimize the chances his plan will be stopped. By limiting the information his''
''co-conspirators have before the Muspelli are ready to enact Fimbulwinter, he reduces the chances that the defeat of any one Muspelli might cause the situation to unravel. If a Muspelli is captured and forced to reveal their plan before preparations are complete, they cannot reveal anything too damaging. The Muspelli only know they need to find the Irminsul and then return to the designated meeting place with Ingvar. Once they return, Lokishafr explains the next step and teaches them how to use the Irminsul to summon an Aspect of Fimbulwinter. He then sends them back out to await his signal. Additionally, the Muspelli here are very much like the Order when it was forming; they are still learning to work toward a single goal and laying their foundation. And perhaps most importantly, the Muspelli are working toward Fimbulwinter and beyond, potentially to Ragnarok. With this paradigm of planning for the world after their task is complete, the Order is less their enemy and more of an obstacle to victory which must be understood and contained for the long term.''

==Saga Consideration: One of a Thousand Gates==

''The Muspelli anticipate a game of cat and mouse against magical foes with greater resources, but less flexibility. The Muspelli are not necessarily tied to any one site for an extended period, allowing them to drift between locations and strike when and where the situation is most optimal. They can disappear for a year, then return and resume operations with little threat of disruption. The Order of Hermes, on the other hand, has established roots and relationships, and often keeps its homes deliberately unobtrusive. They have rules about scrying they must follow. Going to war for the Hermetics means potentially stirring up trouble with an ever increasingly capable mundane world which distrusts them at best. It means convincing the rest of their Tribunal the threat is real, and this isn’t simply an excuse for scrying. Additionally, once the Order knows of the threat, they must watch an enormous range of the countryside and potentially coordi''
''nate a number of different covenants, while the Muspelli must only find a single blind spot. This makes it far easier for the Muspelli to choose the time and place of their battles, which they prefer. The key to their strategy must be measured patience. For the Hermetics, the key lies in gaining and fixing Arcane Connections to the Muspelli, so they might find them and possibly limit the Fimbulwinter threat.''

==Saga Consideration: The Call of Winter==

''Once the saga enters the second stage, the question arises, “how do the Muspelli know it is time to begin Fimbulwinter since they’re scattered across Mythic Europe?” After the midpoint of Stage 2 passes, or after they have returned to Lokishafr to learn the Fimbulwinter Aspect summoning, the Muspelli know they are to call upon their Jotun patron for a sign once per month (at a time decided by the Storyguide), using the ritual they generally use for summoning it for advice. This is more frequently than noted in Rival Magic, page 93, but the patron is spending little time in the mundane world, and risks are necessary to bring about Fimbulwinter. If at least three Muspelli have found their two Irminsul sites and learned the Fimbulwinter ritual, then Lokishafr passes on the message via his patron to the Jotnar, “Unleash Fimbulwinter.” Since the Jotnar all remain trapped together in the Magic Realm, this message spreads to all of the patrons as Lokishafr communicates it. Then, when the scattered Muspelli make their monthly summoning to ask their Jotun patron for a sign, the patron relays Lokishafr’s message. This way, the Muspelli can communicate over great distances without ever speaking face to face, but still coordinate their plans. This method can also be used to pass important messages between Muspelli while they search or to share the sites of discovered Irminsul, too, if you need them to do so, but the Jotnar will not stand for being used as casual messengers.''
''know the whole plan, but their leader does know, and while his fellow conspirators seek out sites and build their strength, he lays the foundations to ensure success, even if he is not alive to see it. Specifically, the Muspelli are directed to roam Mythic Europe to identify Irminsul sites, extend their powers, and locate resources. The Muspelli know that they risk death if they confront Hermetic magi directly, so they do all they can to avoid that.They prefer to create encounters where they can observe their enemies, so they can tailor utiseta to use against them later, and focus these utiseta on their foes’ weaknesses. The storyguide should consider a particular Muspelli to bring into conflict with the covenant, like Kotkill Ulfsbrodir, Leif Ormsbrodir, or possibly Gunnvara Jarnvidja. Ingvar should remain completely out of the saga at this point, as the cabal’s leader. In this stage, the Muspelli are exploring, beginning their search, but not really aware of the Order’s potential threat. The second stage begins after the Muspelli discover Irminsul, realize the danger Order might pose, and begin developing plans to distract or preoccupy the Order while continuing to complete their directives. With multiple Muspelli active, expect some overlap between stages. The storyguide must tailor these story seeds to the player characters’ Tribunal, adding details like appropriate regional names or specific locations. For stories involving the Muspelli directly, be sure to review the benefits of their Magic Defenses, on page 9 and page 85 of Rival Magic.''

==Telling Tales==

''During the first stage, if the player characters capture either the Muspelli or their minions, the amount of information available about the Fimbulwinter plot is frustratingly sparse. Regardless of whether the story arc is focused on the acquisition of a resource or the discovery of an Irminsul, a trusted ally of the Muspelli knows only that the non-Hermetic sorcerer is seeking out a magical place in the area, hoping to access its power. Such a servant doesn’t even know of the term “Fimbulwinter” in relation to this plot. For now, they remain uninformed beyond what is necessary to complete their immediate task, or have a false cover story they believe true, like banditry, or the Muspelli’s personal research. An interrogated Muspelli knows slightly more. Using magic to completely rummage through a Muspelli’s mind provides the following details:''
''• There is another Muspelli urging and coordinating other Muspelli to complete a task, though the Muspelli are working independent of one another. This coordinating Muspelli is called “Lokeshafr.” Depending on the type of spell used to interrogate the target, the magus can learn what this Muspelli looks like in Etin-mod and where the two Muspelli met. By default, this is Ingvar and their meeting place should be the captured Muspelli’s home region, but you should feel free to adjust this as desired. • The Muspelli have been directed to find at least two Irminsul before returning''
''to a remote site in Scandinavia. Once there, Lokeshafr will determine if they are ready to learn more. If so, he will teach them further, otherwise, they will return in a year. They do not know how Lokeshafr will know when they are at the site, but he will come to them once they arrive. If they encounter potential interference, they should make some preparations to deal with it later on. • The Muspelli should be alert for other Muspelli, and, if they find them, convince these other sorcerers to seek out Irminsul, and to travel to Lokeshafr and join their cause. What is this cause? To bring about Fimbulwinter, the long winter without summer which marks the beginning of Ragnarok and the awakening of Loki. When and how will Fimbulwinter start? The Muspelli don’t know yet. Only Lokeshafr knows that part of the plan. Who is Lokeshafr? They met in Etin-mod, and so the Muspelli doesn’t know Lokeshafr’s human form. • They can learn what an Irminsul generally looks like and its former purpose. They do not know how it will be used for Fimbulwinter, and whether that means it will be destroyed, used in a ritual, or otherwise exploited.''
''The Price of Ignorance''
''Should the covenant fail to respond to a particular Muspelli activity, then the storyguide should consider one of the following consequences.''
''• The Muspelli now knows either how to reach the intended Irminsul site or acquire vis from the vis site. They possess an Arcane Connection to the site as well as a sample of vis from the site, if it produces vis. • If they were seeking a potential gandur, they acquire the suitable materials or objects to create one. • The Muspelli gains 5xp in Muspelli Lore, increasing this score for later use. This is in addition to any other relevant experience resulting from the task, such as Area Lore, Magic Lore, or possibly weapon skills. • Some story seeds specify particular benefits for the Muspelli.''
''While these consequences seem minimal, they are the foundation of later Muspelli activity. It is especially important to note how many Irminsul sites the Muspelli uncover.''

==The End State==

''With the end of the first stage, the Muspelli become an element on the fringe of the covenant’s awareness after a few brief encounters with the servants of the Muspelli. They might have seen the Muspelli or the traces of their passing. Unless the Muspelli have been very clever, or very lucky, the player magi should know there is a strange, new non-Hermetic sorcerer active in the region, perhaps even a small cabal of this tradition, but unsure what their actual focus or intention is. While a hint of danger or trouble lingers on the horizon, the magnitude of the Muspelli plans should remain shadowy or puzzling. The Muspelli themselves might remain a mystery for the first story or two. For every two seasons where the Muspelli are not directly involved in stories, the storyguide should provide them with 15 experience points to increase their abilities. Back at his stronghold, Ingvar uses Valgaldrar to bind a corpse to his meeting place for a Decade duration. This corpse (Might 10) watches from afar and notifies him of a Muspelli recruit’s arrival. If he dies, it remains until the effect expires. It does not otherwise confront or engage visitors.''

==Story Seeds for the First Stage: Initial Explorations==

''The storyguide has a reasonable amount of latitude in the number and types of stories used to complete this stage. As previously mentioned, consider one to three stories per Muspelli in the cabal. Each one will later serve as a foe for the covenant, and more Muspelli mean both a more difficult conflict later, and that a quicker, harsher Fimbulwinter arrives in the third stage. Not all of these stories need or should take place in the covenant’s home Tribunal. Expanding the scope of the stories to occur when the characters are abroad helps demonstrate the problem isn’t limited to the covenant’s home. The hunt for Irminsuls takes the Muspelli across the formerly Celtic and currently pagan regions of Mythic Europe, from Hibernia to Provence, across the Rhine Tribunal and into the Novgorod. Because these pagan religious altars were toppled, taken as spoils by Christians and Romans alike, and even established in remote, wild places, it means a searching Muspelli most often serves as a secondary storyline; perhaps a red herring distracting from the active plot, a moment of chance presented as a sideline during the current arc, or an opportunity to discover the actual storyline as a more significant incident over the course of play. However, building a Muspelli’s power involves trials, sacrifices, or even the creation of allies or servants to be utilized later in the saga. Because the Muspelli cannot quickly use powerful effects, they are interested in acquiring magical items, such as extraordinary vis, or items enchanted by hedge wizards. Hermetic items would be very welcome, but might be dangerous to get. This process of acquiring enchanted items provides a second source for stories. A couple of sample vis sites are described below. Other forms of Extraordinary Vis may be found on pages 120–122 of Realms of Power: Magic.''
''Vis Site: Sunstone Quarry''
''Lesser Enchantment Pawns of Intellego Vis InIg Level 25 Pen 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Vision Cut from a vein of high quality crystal, these rhomboid-shaped calcite stones allow''
''the bearer to always know the direction of the Sun. They are immensely useful for navigators and travelers in snowbound regions with little in the way of landmarks, as viewing an overcast daytime sky through these objects allows the bearer to ascertain the Sun’s position and avoid accidentally going the wrong way.''
''Vis Site: Magical Honeycomb''
''Spell-like Pawns of Rego Vis ReAn Level 45 Pen 10 R: Arc, D: Sun, T: Ind, Ritual This aromatic fragment of beehive still drips with tiny beads of honey. By placing an Arcane Connection to a particular beast (of Size +4 or less) inside the sticky beeswax, then crumpling the honeycomb into a ball and consuming the wax or destroying it in fire, the caster gains total control over the targeted creature until either the next sunrise or sunset. (Base 15, +4 Arc, +2 Sun, +1 Size)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: The Figureheads''
''Leif keeps a secret lair with a precious collection of dragon figureheads taken from ships. He takes great pride in the wooden carvings. As Fimbulwinter escalates into a full fledged conflict, a deceptive magus could exploit this habit and steal his figureheads while the Muspelli is abroad. Then, with some clever trickery, the player character might frame another Muspelli for the theft and arrange for Leif to learn of the supposed perpetrator. This way, player characters could trick Leif into either weakening or eliminating another foe, while using the raging Muspelli’s acts as an opportunity to exhaust his resources before the player characters act. As long as the Muspelli don’t uncover the deception, the magi could potentially eliminate two enemies, as one of the Muspelli is likely killed by one of his peers and the cabal planning Fimbulwinter is poisoned with the seeds of distrust and paranoia. Everyone wins… well, really just the player magi.''

|}

==Dies Irae Regional Troubles==

''These are chance events, ones caught by a nosy covenfolk in town, or told to a grog over cups in a nearby tavern, perhaps even spotted by apprentices sneaking out of the covenant.  The Event: A week before the Winter Solstice, woodcutter sees one of the Muspelli in monstrous etin-mod, fighting an elk or stag to the death, barehanded, in the snow-bound woods. The local retreats back to town, and over his cups, he talks about how a giant troll or creature is menacing the community. The Muspelli is performing an Initiation designed to give him more physical power, and has completed the first part.''
''If Ignored: If the covenant does nothing until after the Winter Solstice, the Muspelli gains the benefits of performing the Initiation twice, gaining the Claws and Fangs Quality, or if these are possessed, giving them the Improved quality and increases their stats by Atk +2, Dfn +1, Dmg''
''+3. The Muspelli also becomes familiar with the area. As an additional result of the Initiation, the Muspelli gains the Afflicted Tongue Flaw and suffers the Incomprehensible Flaw. Alternatively, the Muspelli could gain the Disfigured Flaw and Missing Ear Flaw. The Muspelli remains in the area through the Spring to search for an Irminsul as a potential second story event.''
''If Captured: This provides the Muspelli as a live captive. However he cannot speak clearly and must be interrogated magically. No other potential captives exist in this scenario.''
''If Thwarted: Acting before the Solstice scares off the Muspelli before the second Initiation can be completed and he''
''only earns one of the benefits described in the “If Ignored” option. The antagonist gains 5xp in Muspelli Lore.''
''The Spoils: Studying the animal’s corpse provides two pawns of vis, either Muto, Animal, or Vim, and serves as a source of Insight for any investigation of Muspelli magic. If killed in his etin-mod, the Muspelli’s corpse may also act as a source of Insight if preserved and studied. The body is also an Arcane Connection to the Muspelli’s ghost.''

==Hermetic Correspondence==

''This section offers story seeds delivered by Tribunal gossip, bits of conversation''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: For Love''
''Leif, with his Curse of Venus and Weakness for women, is likely to become obsessed with the wrong woman, or she with him, and this obsession can serve as his downfall. Perhaps a maga or companion leads the hunt for Leif after an encounter. Leif sees her at a distance and becomes smitten. He arranges an attack at dusk. During the attack, he incapacitates her, but instead of killing her, he leaves her a small token of his affection while killing her shield grog. He might become distracted from his search, taking the form of a small animal and attempting to show his feelings for the woman in a strange way, bringing her mice, songbirds, or fish. These interactions might become the basis of a relationship where he inadvertently reveals his plan, or his travel destinations, or pauses in a crucial attack to spare the object of his affection. The combination of Flaws provides an Achilles’ heel for Leif which relies on developing relationships through nonviolent encounters made more emotionally powerful through the struggle to overcome his Gift and communication issues.''

|}

==What is Insight?==

''Insight is part of the Original Research rules from Ancient Magic or Houses of Hermes: True Lineages. It includes objects, texts, or other sources which could assist a researcher trying to achieve a Magical Breakthrough of some kind, such as incorporating Muspelli magic into Hermetic theory. If you’re not using these rules, then consider allowing sources of Insight to provide experience to the researcher on other topics, such as Muspelli Lore, Jotun Lore, or even Magic Lore. Once dead, Muspelli are no longer Arcane Connections to their Jotun patrons. At the storyguide’s discretion, studying a body for Insight effectively destroys it.''
''Story Seed: To Contact Gullveig''
''Attempting to contact Gullveig, a Muspelli captures two magicians – some combination of folk witches, other hedge wizards, vitkir, or even Hermetic magi, such as a Verditius captured without casting tools or one whose Necessary Condition or Restriction is exploited, and prepares to force them into a fight to the death. The Muspelli intends to sacrifice the winner while summoning Gullveig’s Aspect. She appears after this sacrifice, claiming the victims’ hearts as gifts, and promises to teach the Muspelli, increasing a Trolldomur ability. The apprentices,''
''covenmates, or sodales of these victims seek out the covenant, hoping to prevent the death of the prisoners. If magi arrive too late, they face the angry Jotun Aspect while the Muspelli withdraws.''
''Story Seed: Spiritual Assistance''
''When Magnus claimed his gandur, he drove silver nails into the feet of the interred corpse before the spirit there could animate it as a draughir. This spirit might have been a vitki or a Diedne magus in hiding, who, even in death, knows the location of lost caches of magic. If the magi can recover the sickle for the ghost, putting the ghost to rest, then the player character can acquire a war chest of resources while striking a blow against the Muspelli cause. The covenant might discover the draughir’s barrow as they search for vis near their covenant, in the course of their travels, or through the reports of a visiting Redcap. If the magi are willing to parlay with the unquiet spirit rather than simply destroy it, they can be put on the path to opposing Magnus. Hasty magi might be given a second chance as the ghost returns to haunt them for denying it the chance at vengeance.''
''made in passing by traveling magi who seek hospitality, Redcap-delivered correspondence, or at events such as Tribunal gatherings, House meetings, or chance encounters on the road or in towns. These events are near the covenant, but primarily affect other members of the Order.''
''The Event: An urgent letter from a distant Jerbiton magus indicates that one of his relatives has recently gone missing. He cannot attend to the matter directly, and offers an appropriate reward if the covenant can investigate the disappearance, more for a successful rescue. Alternately, this may be a fellow Jerbiton in the local Tribunal, who asks the covenant to help. A Muspelli seeking Leiken’s favor has kidnapped the relative, and is in the process of starving them senseless, then sacrificing them in a ritual for the Aspect. (A similar event could also target the covenant directly, but it is important to drop hints that the Muspelli’s plots are widespread.)''
''If Ignored: The Muspelli gains the ability of Valgaldrar at 1, gains 15xp in this ability next season, and starts utilizing the Walking Dead in his plans. Increase the antagonist’s Muspelli Lore by 10xp.''
''If Captured: This provides the Muspelli as a live captive, or possibly a few guards at the storyguide’s discretion.''
''If Thwarted: The relative isn’t specifically essential to the ritual, and so the Muspelli is willing to abandon the victim if the situation becomes too dangerous. If the antagonist escapes, he seeks out another victim to sacrifice next season, and learns of the covenant’s interest in his activities. Increase the antagonist’s Muspelli Lore by 5xp.''
''The Spoils: Magi who spend a season researching the victim’s body may use the corpse as a source of Insight in any investigation of Muspelli magic. The victim’s corpse can also provide a description of the Muspelli involved, but only what he looks like in etin-mod. If killed in his etinmod, the Muspelli corpse may also act as a source of Insight if preserved and studied. The body is also an Arcane Connection to the Muspelli’s ghost. Destroying the Aspect leaves behind vis as described in Realms of Power: Magic, page 87.''
''The Event: A Tremere magus mentions''
''issues he’s experienced dealing with hunters from outside the region poaching some wolves from his protected pack. His contacts witnessed the activity, but the hunters seemed very sophisticated and eluded them. He can arrange some favor for the covenant if they can investigate the issue and stop the hunters. A group of werewolves led by a Muspelli is responsible for the kills, but is more interested in locating an Irminsul site or good resources for Fimbulwinter than taking trophies.''
''If Ignored: The Muspelli capture several Wolves of Virtue for sacrifice when performing utiseta in the area, and identify an an old Irminsul within a cave. Additionally, the Muspelli strengthens an alliance with the werewolf tribe, expanding the number of allies available to this Muspelli when pursuing other endeavors.''
''If Captured: This provides the Muspelli or guards as captives. The werewolves know of the concept of “Fimbulwinter,” but only the myth of three winters without summer. They know of Muspelli as a tradition of individuals, and know their master or employer in both etin-mod and human form. They do not know what the Muspelli wanted to do with the Wolves of Virtue, but they intended to take them alive. If the werewolves escape but the Muspelli does''
''not, they carry word of the Muspelli’s capture back to another member of the cabal, alerting the Muspelli to the covenant’s interest in any activity in the area.''
''If Thwarted: The Muspelli attempt this raid twice more, alternating the season it is conducted. The werewolves are initially willing to assist in exchange for slaves or loot, but consider revenge an acceptable reason if any werewolves died during previous hunts. The Muspelli gains 10xp in an appropriate Ability based on the adventure.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli carries five pawns of vis and his gandur, which may or may not still have utiseta stored in it. If killed in their etin-mod, their corpse may also act as a source of Insight if preserved and studied. The body is also an Arcane Connection to the Muspelli’s ghost.''

==Second Stage: Enemy Apparent==

''As they explore, the Muspelli both realize the scope of the threat posed by the Order of Hermes and locate an Irminsul each.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==When Do Other Muspelli Find Irminsul?==

''Storyguides are not likely going to want to play out the discovery of every Irminsul by every member of the Muspelli cabal. Instead, use the success or failure of the player characters’ encounter with the Muspelli searching near their covenant as the indicator for the other searching Muspelli. If the Hermetics fail, then all of the Muspelli discover an Irminsul site. If they capture the Muspelli, then the other Muspelli fail that season. If the player wizards chase away the Muspelli, then each other Muspelli has a 50% chance of securing his Irminsul. Alternatively, if the storyguide wants the option of a story, a regularly visiting Redcap or passing traveler might bring news of strange sightings in another Tribunal or region. Failure to respond, even with a trip to another covenant in the area, roleplaying the exchange of a warning, means the Muspelli involved finds''
''the Irminsul they were seeking. When at least half of the Muspelli have located two Irminsul, the storyguide may proceed to the third stage of the saga at any time. Taken literally, these rules mean that a skilled and lucky troupe might hold up Fimbulwinter indefinitely without ever even noticing that there is a Muspelli plot. However, if they capture at least two Muspelli (which, in practice, is likely to be necessary to delay things for long), they should become aware of a wider plot, and are very likely to take action on their own initiative. If they do not, but seem to be becoming bored with the repeated events, you can either fudge the rolls, or decide that the Muspelli give up, at least for now. On the other hand, if everyone is enjoying the “whack-a-mole” version of averting Fimbulwinter, there is no reason to stop.''

|}
''This initiates the saga’s second stage, when the Muspelli begin expanding their power, not only personally, as they did earlier, but also in terms of building their forces through alliances and creating hordes of Walking Dead while seeking out a second Irminsul. They strengthen their magical abilities to call Aspects, using them in combat, in conjunction with casting utiseta, and to broaden their skills. They attempt to distract the covenant by denying resources, realigning or destroying auras with Trolldomur, capturing Magical beasts and striking at the mundane population. This stage might be dominated by a younger, less cautious Muspelli who engages the magi, while trying to locate the covenant’s Irminsul vis site. Consider Gunnvara Jarnvidja or Kotkill Ulfsbrodir, with the “The Fruits of Loyalty” seed being another chance to hint at the more powerful Ingvar Suttungja in the background. In this stage, the Muspelli have discovered at least one Irminsul each, realize the danger Order might pose, and begin developing plans to distract or preoccupy the Order while continuing to complete their directives. For stories involving the Muspelli directly, be sure to review the benefits of their Magic Defenses, on page 9 and page 85 of Rival Magic.''

==Telling Tales==

''The information player characters can learn by interrogating the Muspelli or their minions in the second half of the stage is similar to the intelligence available in the first half, except that now even the thugs and reavers aiding the pagan sorcerers know the Muspelli are seeking out Irminsul, but they don’t know why, or what the Muspelli will do with the old monuments. In most cases, they can provide human and etin-mod descriptions, and can describe what Irminsul look like.''

==The Price of Ignorance==

''Left to their own devices, the Muspelli locate at least two Irminsul sites in the Tribunal, and establish additional resources to assist them when they return later. This stage should probably take at least two years, with one year dedicated to finding Irminsul, and a''
''second spent creating resources. It may take much longer, if a Muspelli becomes involved in a feud or running war with a covenant that is not consistently focused on finding and stopping the non-Hermetic sorcerers.''

==The End State==

''By the end of this stage, it is very likely the covenant has faced and possibly defeated one of the Muspelli in combat. Through this loss, the Muspelli not only learn what the covenant is capable of doing, but force the magi into open hostilities with them. After such an encounter, neither group operates unknown to the other, but the scope of the Muspelli plans may remain shrouded. The aftermath of this battle hints to the magi at the wider scope of the Muspelli plan and could potentially give them prisoners or spirits to interrogate. Now, where they may have seen simple raids or banditry, the acts of a single, lone non-Hermetic wizard, they may view events with a lens of conspiracy and paranoia, and in some aspects, rightfully so. Even as the saga enters the next stage, the larger portion of the Muspelli cabal remains still hidden, or at least beyond easy observation, and they work to shift focus toward other potential culprits while putting their resources into position to complete their Winter-bringing rituals. For every two seasons where the Muspelli are not directly involved in stories, the storyguide should provide them with 15 experience points to increase their abilities. Ingvar and the Muspelli continue to take precautions to ensure that Ingvar’s location is not revealed, and unless the characters are both skilled and lucky they do not face him at this stage. Once each of the Muspelli have located their two Irminsul, they return to Ingvar and spend a season learning the summoning ritual from him. Afterward, they venture back out into Mythic Europe, and prepare to unleash the Aspects on the next winter Solstice, a date decided upon by Ingvar.''

==Story Seeds==

''The stories for this phase of the saga focus on the development of resources for later use, either to distract the Order of Hermes while the Muspelli are enacting an Aspect''
''summoning ritual, or to allow the Muspelli to secure a captured Irminsul. They might be combined with actually finding or claiming an Irminsul, as well.''
''Regional Troubles''
''These are chance events, ones caught by a nosy covenfolk in town, or told to a grog over cups in a nearby tavern, perhaps even spotted by apprentices sneaking out of the covenant.''
''The Event: The local lord recently killed two groups of pirates, bandits, or criminals and ordered their bodies left to the birds as an example, despite protests from the clergy. A shepherd swears he saw them stand up and walk into the hills. The priests are claiming a miracle, and the noble suspects the churchmen are defying him, burying the bodies under cover of night. A third group is slated to die soon. A Muspelli has been luring these groups into the area with Entrancement as well as stories of rich churches and traveling merchants, then collecting the corpses with Valgaldrar.''
''If Ignored: If the Walking Dead aren’t discovered in a hidden cave and destroyed, they emerge later to attack the covenant’s interests or cause trouble in the region.''
''If Captured: Captives interrogated before they are killed can describe the human form of the Muspelli behind this plot, and where he was encountered. They do not know of Fimbulwinter, or Irminsuls, or that the person who sent them here was a Muspelli. They are dupes. A captured Muspelli knows a larger conflict is brewing. He knows the approximate size of the Muspelli group, and that Lokeshafr has been working to increase their number. The Muspelli still do not know how the Irminsuls will be used to bring about Fimbulwinter.''
''If Thwarted: The Muspelli departs and resumes his search for other Irminsul sites. He notes the Hermetic interference for later and alerts any other Muspelli he knows.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and any still active Walking Dead could serve as a source of Insight.''
''The Event: The sister of a locallyborn grog approaches the covenant, wanting to talk to her brother. Her husband, the grog’s brother-in-law, works with the regional noble’s huntsman, and more than once he’s complained of being slighted by the lord or the lord’s son. Lately, he’s vocally mentioned how “his betters” might not remain so for long, and disappeared for an evening meeting with several foreign men. Worrying for her family, she followed and believes she heard them discussing something terrible. She isn’t sure what will happen, but asks her brother to investigate. The Muspelli are looking to subvert or usurp the noble’s position, and plan on using the husband’s knowledge of the target’s hunting habits to accomplish it.''
''If Ignored: If the Muspelli’s ambush isn’t prevented, then either the noble is replaced with a Muspelli, or the lord’s son rises as a new leader secretly serving the Muspelli. This gives the Muspelli a safe base of operations in the area, and freedom to execute preparations for Fimbulwinter with little mundane interference.''
''If Captured: Searching the husband’s mind with Mentem magics provides the face of one of the Muspelli’s lieutenants responsible for organizing the plot, who, in turn, could be used to seek out his master. The Muspelli knows the rough size of the conspiracy, and''
''that Lokeshafr is trying to expand it.''
''If Thwarted: The Muspelli gives up on this plan for now and continues searching for Irminsul sites. He remembers the Hermetic interference and adjusts his plans to account for it.''
''The Spoils: If captured, the Muspelli has his gandur and 5 pawns of vis. His gandur and body may both serve as sources of Insight.''
''Hermetic Correspondence''
''These story options arrive via Tribunal gossip, bits of conversation made in passing by traveling magi who seek hospitality, or House Mercere’s messengers. These events are near the covenant, but primarily affect other members of the Order.''
''The Event: A Bjornaer acquainted with the covenant sends correspondence regarding werewolf sightings in the area. The Bjornaer asks the magi to investigate, but with discretion. In exchange for their report, the Bjornaer acquires a requested text from Durenmar for the magi. The werewolves are scouting the area for Beasts of Virtue, vis sites, and Irminsul for the Muspelli, as one of their number is Magically Sensitive. Along the way, they are raiding the countryside for easy loot, food, vis, and sport.''
''If Ignored: The Muspelli learn about the vis sites in the area and begin poaching them once they begin enacting their plans in the next stage, using the vis to help fuel their rituals. They take Arcane Connections to the sites, and in particular, to the covenant’s Irminsul vis site.''
''If Captured: The werewolves know nothing additional for this phase.''
''If Thwarted: Should the werewolves escape, they notify the Muspelli regarding the Hermetic presence in the area. The Muspelli arrives in three seasons to investigate the area himself.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: Gaining Gullveig’s Favor''
''After discovering a local coven of folk witches, a Muspelli and a detachment of his followers subjugate them, receiving tribute from them on the Summer solstice. Once they are dominated, the Muspelli prepares to sacrifice the oldest and the youngest to Gullveig on pyres during the Winter solstice. Rising out of the smoldering ashes, the Aspect of Gullveig promises to instruct the Muspelli and the eldest remaining folk witch in any of the Supernatural Abilities associated with her, listed on page 82 of Rival Magic. A relative or rebellious member of the coven accidentally overhears this plan and seeks out the covenant, asking for assistance, but the surviving folk witches have joined the Muspelli’s cause.''
''Story Seed: The Fruits of Loyalty''
''A Muspelli begins driving out the inhabitants of a remote area as winter begins, leaving no communities standing in a 5 mile radius, roughly nine villages. Then, as the new shoots of trees and plants sprout in the ruined sites during the following spring, the Muspelli intends to sacrifice the religious symbols of the communities’ religious leaders at the most central site. Once the task is complete, the Aspect of Gymir appears and instructs the Muspelli over the next season in any of the Supernatural Abilities listed on page 82 of Rival Magic. This sets the ability at 1 and provides 15xp in the next season. Some of these refugees approach the covenant in the dead of winter, asking for sanctuary and permission to join as covenfolk. In the course of their incorporation, they explain the raid, giving details about the nature of the attackers, which might put the covenant on their trail. The lord of the area is too distant to intervene before winter starts, and the weather makes it impractical during winter, but he will raise an army the following spring. The Muspelli intends to be long gone by then, giving the characters a deadline.''
''Story Seed: Gaining Surtur’s Favor''
''A Muspelli hunts down a local vitki or eremite pagan Hermetic magus, forcing him to surrender his personal weapon, Thor’s Hammer amulet, or talisman to the Muspelli. Then, using the item, the Muspelli prepares to sacrifice an individual important to the previous owner. In exchange for this deed, the Aspect instructs the Muspelli over the next season in one of the Supernatural Abilities listed on page 82 of Rival Magic. This sets the ability at 1 and provides 15xp in the next season. Realizing the danger, but lacking the resources to stop the Muspelli, the magus or vitki approaches the covenant for help, creating a political ally or friend useful in other Tribunal business and storylines. Depending on the sort of conflict desired, the covenant might face the Muspelli or the Muspelli’s minions, with the potential to trace the attack back to the Muspelli.''

|}
''The Spoils: The werewolves have some easily portable loot, and a rook (ten pawns) of Animal vis.''
''The Event: A recent rash of disappearances among the local folk witch community, which is composed primarily of village wise women, convinces a Bonisagus or Ex Miscellanea maga that something sinister is happening, and she contacts a member of the covenant to discuss her suspicions. A covenant that acts quickly rescues the witches from hidden captivity. A Muspelli’s band captured them and plans to sacrifice them in a ritual to summon an Aspect of Gullveig. The Muspelli is willing to find other lesser practitioners, and abandons the captives if the situation becomes too dangerous.''
''If Ignored: Those who delay too long discover bodies of the witches who were forced to fight, then had their hearts torn out. The Muspelli gains an ability associated with Gullveig, augmenting his abilities with an additional power, such as Entrancement, Valgaldrar, or Winter’s Breath. Alternatively, the Muspelli might gain a gandur, or learn the location of an Irminsul used by the folk witches.''
''If Captured: The Muspelli knows nothing additional for this phase.''
''If Thwarted: Should the Muspelli escape, he resumes his search for Irminsul sites and another hedge wizard group for a year before reattempting this operation. The bodies can identify the Muspelli’s etin-mod form.''
''The Spoils: If the witches are killed, searching the site reveals similarities between these deaths and with those from the previous stage’s story seed, “To Contact Gullveig.” The bodies may be used as a source of Insight regarding Muspelli magic, and each contains two pawns of Corpus vis. If the characters save the witches, they have some new allies.''
''Corrupting Auras''
''By transforming Magic auras into ones aligned with Trolldomur, the Muspelli destroy the resources available to their Hermetic foes while predisposing the area toward their plans and continuing the process of breaking''
''the chains that bind Loki. While Divine auras are immune and Infernal auras nearly so to the decay of Trolldomur, destroying Faerie auras and converting Magic auras into Trolldomur provides Muspelli with locations where their magic remains strong, but their enemies’ magic suffers. To accomplish this transformation, the Muspelli must enact utiseta with an Ease Factor equal to or greater than 5 times the Faerie Aura, or 10 times the Magic Aura. See Rival Magic, page 81 for details. Potential stories associated with this option include:''
''The Event: Covenant servants observe a group of Entranced mercenaries or raiders either belonging to the Raudskinna Compact or connected to a local hedge wizard making a blatant attempt steal from or damage one of the covenant’s vis sites. The thieves fight bitterly, but ultimately attempt a retreat.''
''If Ignored: The attack conceals the true target. While the covenant is preoccupied with the overt assault on their resources, a Muspelli visits the covenant’s Irminsul vis site. Possibly escorted by Walking Dead or another ally, the Muspelli gathers an Arcane Connection and completes a ritual reducing the aura by one and realigning it to Trolldomur.''
''If Captured: Mentem or Corpus magics reveal that the raiders had orders to destroy the site and claim the vis. They can identify the human form of the Muspelli.''
''If Thwarted: Should the Muspelli escape, he waits two seasons and attempts this attack again.''
''The Spoils: If damaged, the aura could be studied as a source of Insight regarding Muspelli magic. Utilizing vis from before and after the transformation should provide a benefit to either the ease or quality of the research.''
''The Event: A lone Muspelli is wandering the Tribunal in disguise. The Muspelli might have a chance encounter with grogs or a Redcap. He is seeking out Irminsul and vis sites throughout the region, and attempting to damage or destroy as many vis sites as possible by completing utiseta within the auras. This event requires the storyguide to have a good accounting of the larger area’s vis sites, their strengths, their locations, any nearby inhabitants, and when the vis is har''
''vested. Then the storyguide should plan a specific itinerary for the Muspelli, so there is no question as to where their enemy will be, should the magi come hunting for them. If Ignored: Left unopposed, the Muspelli locates an Irminsul and manages to damage at least a third of the vis sites in the region, causing numerous accusations of Low Crimes between rival covenants and forcing the initiation of an investigation by the Tribunal’s Head Quaesitor, who delegates this responsibility to the player characters. They are charged with determining what has occurred and presenting an initial report to the Quaesitor and the Praeco within a year.''
''If Captured: The Muspelli knows he must seek out Irminsul, and where he must go to meet Lokeshafr, but does not know the summoning ritual or what he will do with the Irminsul.''
''If Thwarted: Should the Muspelli escape, he stops damaging sites and resumes his search for Irminsul sites.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and any damaged auras could still serve as a source of Insight.''
''The Event: Exploiting faerie weaknesses and habits, the Muspelli uses Entranced proxies or loyal servants as bait. After luring the fae into traps where they can be captured, the Muspelli goes about destroying their Faerie auras. It is possible that an incognizant or partially cognizant faerie escapes and tries to find help.''
''If Ignored: Depending on the relationship between the covenant and the local faeries, the player magi may not become aware of this event, except through its consequences. In such cases, the fae become weaker, but make oaths to serve the Muspelli in exchange for preserving their Faerie auras. Alternatively, the faerie may lead the Muspelli to an Irminsul.''
''If Captured: The Muspelli knows he must seek out Irminsul, and where he must go to meet Lokeshafr, but does not know the summoning ritual or what he will eventually do with the Irminsul.''
''If Thwarted: This situation offers the player magi not only an opportunity to engage the Muspelli, but forge a stronger alli''
''ance with local faeries. Should the Muspelli escape, he stops seeking out faeries and resumes his search for Irminsul sites.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and any damaged auras could still serve as a source of Insight.''
''Death Which Does Not Die''
''Why do the Muspelli regularly kill the inhabitants of an area directly or indirectly when their primary goal is to unleash Fimbulwinter? Whether the populace dies at the hands of raiding bandits, through starvation, or from exposure, their unfortunate demise allows the Muspelli to create unquestioning and trustworthy soldiers. Muspelli take a long time to cast their spells, and Walking Dead serve wonderfully as sentries and protection while they perform utiseta or summons. Once the situation escalates to open conflict with the Order of Hermes, armies of the dead can be turned upon upon trade routes, outlying communities, and small strongholds, creating problems for allies or resources the magi rely upon. They can be sent to create distractions or ambushes. Additionally, walking corpses do not care about the weather, need no sleep, and require no supply train. They can be buried in shallow graves or hidden in snow, left lying around a ruined wagon, or standing unseen on a lake or river bed, waiting for the right moment to ambush their target. Using animated bodies as the core of their forces, Muspelli can better fortify the sites established to create Fimbulwinter with troops capable of standing guard forever. And when Fimbulwinter is finally achieved, the Muspelli will likely have hordes which will serve them quite well in the aftermath of Fimbulwinter while others are desperately seeking able-bodied warriors. Statistics for these levies can be found in Realms of Power: Magic, page 98. Commonly, they possess a Might of 9, and so most covenants’ Aegis of the Hearth keeps them outside. However, the Parma doesn’t protect from the physical attacks of Walking Dead, so being caught by a mob of them could prove quite deadly. Walking Dead with no Might are possible, but only as part of an ongoing utiseta effect.''

==Third Stage: Calling Down the Storm==

''Now is the time of the Muspelli. With the third stage, the hour has arrived when they return to the previously identified Irminsul sites and enact the rituals summoning Aspects of Fimbulwinter to blanket the world in freezing death for as long as they are free to roam the land. One of these attacks and utiseta ceremonies should take place at the covenant’s Irminsul, if it still stands. Another occurs at a random town within the Rhine Tribunal on Laetare Sunday. Another happens at the Egesterenstein in the Teutoberger Wald. Other Aspect summons might occur in locations of the storyguide’s choice, or “offscreen” as appropriate, such as in those sagas where Fimbulwinter is inevitable and the storyguide expects to run another apocalypse story from this book as a direct result of the actions of this saga, or simply in those games where the storyguide wishes to increase the difficulty of the task posed to the player magi. The third saga stage has two phases. The first phase involves surviving Muspelli and their allies, acting as intelligently as possible. It represents the culmination of long preparations for the Muspelli. Success means they’ve established one of the first conditions for Loki’s awakening and revival while demonstrating they are a power to be respected. The storyguide should decide the sequence of events in advance, determining when each summoning occurs. It is also important to consider whether the player characters know enough to potentially stop the Muspelli at any particular location before an Aspect’s release, if they will be provided opportunities to learn, or if the storyguide intends for them to learn after Fimbulwinter howls across Mythic Europe. The second phase begins after the Muspelli have released at least three Aspects of Fimbulwinter. The Muspelli unleash the remainder of their preparations, attempt to create a conflict of distraction between the Raudskinna compact and the Order of Hermes, attack the infrastructure of society with Walking Dead, enact actual Fimbulwinter or Wildfire utisetas to further damage the environment, and lead any supernatural''
''or mundane allies they have acquired on various acts of mayhem. They also work to convert as many auras as possible to Trolldomur, thereby attacking the chains holding the Jotnar imprisoned. At this point, the saga becomes a war between the Muspelli and Mythic Europe, although, it is likely, only the covenant truly knows who is responsible. Be sure to review the benefits of the Muspelli’s Magic Defenses, on page 9 and page 85 of Rival Magic.''

==Calling Winter==

''The Muspelli endeavor to release Aspects of Hvergelmir, the Primal Cold which gave rise to Niflheim. Hvergelmir sired Ymir, and lingers in the Magic Realm as a Protogonoi, along with Urdarbrunnr, the Primal Warmth. Eleven rivers spewed forth from Hvergelmir, each one considered an Aspect of winter and they now serve as the embodiment of Fimbulwinter in Mythic Europe. The rivers include cool Svol, defiant Gunnthra, Fjorm, bubbling Fimbulthul, fearsome Slidr and storming Hrid, Sylg and Ylg, broad Vid, bounding Leiptr and freezing Gjoll. In Norse mythology, biting cold and poison are linked; stories described these rivers as filled with both bitter poison and clashing swords tumbling just beneath the surface. Embodied through Aspects, each brings a slightly different type of cold, such as deep-clinging frost, bitter winds, encrusting ice, inexorable glaciers, or freezing wet fog. However, they all serve as harbingers for the coming snows. To release these Aspects, the Muspelli perform a special utiseta at an Irminsul. This utiseta is based on Intelligence and Muspelli Lore, like the rules for summoning a Muspelli’s Jotun patron, but otherwise uses the rules for utiseta, with an Ease Factor of 50. The Irminsul used in the utiseta and provides an additional Power Modifier of 1, cumulative with all the standard ones. Other modifiers associated with the Muspelli’s specific patron for elements of Hamur, Ond, Blot, and Litur, all apply to the summoning ritual. See Rival Magic, pages 90–91 for different modifiers which might be appropriate. This is where magical or faerie creatures might be sacrificed, or the Muspelli might utilize a stolen gandur, or even mutilate themselves. The Muspelli should be able to manage a Power Modifier of 7 or 8, and need to''
''raise their Muspelli Lore scores to a similar level in order to successfully complete the ritual. As they gather power based on Intelligence + (Muspelli Lore – Gleipnir) + a simple die, they have an interest in raising this total as far as possible, so that they can complete the ritual before Etin-mod kills them. In any case, the ritual takes many hours, providing a dramatic opportunity for the characters to interrupt it. Additional Irminsul which might serve as the focus of the Muspelli’s summoning rituals include a toppled Irminsul near Warburg, now covered in moss and ignored, the Irminsul standing in the cathedral of Hildesheim as a candelabrum, the Cross at Bewcastle, Cumberland, which supposedly began as a cross, but remains an Irminsul covered in Futhark runes and Pagan symbolism after the top portion was removed, or the runestone of King Harald Bluetooth at Jelling, Denmark, depicting Christ and Fenris on either side of the Irminsul. Obviously, given the repeating nature of Laetare Sunday (see later), it is possible for this threat to persist until either every Muspelli who knows the ritual is killed and all record of the ritual is destroyed, or the abolishment of the Laetare Sunday tradition. Reducing an Aspect to 0 Might doesn’t destroy it, but forces it to return to the Magic Realm, where it could be summoned again.''
''Telling Tales''
''The information player characters can learn by interrogating the Muspelli or their minions in the first half of this stage is much greater than in the last stage. The thugs and reavers aiding the pagan sorcerers know that the Muspelli are seeking out magic sites, but don’t know what the Muspelli do there. Dead or alive, they can provide human and etin-mod descriptions. In all cases, the Muspelli want to carry away their dead, having learned that Hermetic magi can question spirits and corpses. The Muspelli must accept that they will be discovered, but want their purpose to remain secret as long as possible. Muspelli know the location of their Irminsul sites, the details of the summoning ritual, the face and etin-mod of Ingvar, and likely the etin-mod of at least one other Muspelli.''
''The Price of Ignorance''
''Failing to respond to events at this stage likely results in either the release of an Aspect of Fimbulwinter or the escalation of hostilities between the Order of Hermes and another organization, such as the mundane rulership, the Church, or the Raudskinna Compact.''
''The End State''
''Welcome to Fimbulwinter. The only way this stage can end is with the deaths of the player characters or the Muspelli responsible for this cataclysm.''

==First Phase: Winter Arrives==

''Encounters involving the Aspects of Fimbulwinter, the Muspelli and their allies, and mundane elements managing the catastrophe dominate the stories for this stage. However, the crucial moments are those times when the Muspelli summon new Aspects to Mythic Europe, tightening their icy grip on the environment.''
''Regional Events''
''These are chance events, ones caught by a nosy covenfolk in town, or told to a grog over cups in a nearby tavern, perhaps even spotted by apprentices sneaking out of the covenant. Ritual Confrontation: Sailors tell how several longships attacked a merchant vessel; it foundered and sank after being hit by lightning, and they are among the few survivors. A Muspelli is leading a force to a nearby area or island to perform the Aspect summoning ritual, and wanted to ensure there were no witnesses to their arrival. If Ignored: Neglecting to stop the Muspelli within four days means he successfully summons another Aspect of Fimbulwinter. If Captured: Mundane allies know they are escorting the Muspelli to visit a special site, and protect the Muspelli while he spends perhaps a day there. They can identify the human form of the Muspelli, and know he seems very unsettling. Supernatural allies know the Muspelli’s true''

==Slidr, the Merciless Blizzard==

''Magic Might: 50 (Auram) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +3, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik +4 Season: Winter Size: 0 Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit, Daimon; Great Quickness, Great Stamina, Improved Characteristics x6, Wilderness Sense; Blatant Magical Air, Driven (To Make the World Winter), Magical Monster; Anchored to the Sky, Deleterious Circumstances (Summer), Overconfident, Susceptible to the Divine Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power: Auram x2, Greater Power (Donning the Corporeal Veil, Eidolon, Madness of the Perpetual Winter), Ritual Power (Eternal Snows) x2; Ignem Resistance, Improved Confidence, Improved Might x5, Improved Powers (Breath of Unfathomable Cold, Eternal Snows x2, Madness of the Perpetual Winter), Improved Recovery, Improved Soak, Lesser Power x2 (Breath of Unfathomable Cold), Magical Meditation, No Fatigue, Personal Power (Flight of the Biting Zephyr, Sight Beyond Sight x2) Personality Traits: Driven +6, Fierce +3, Persistent +3, Uncaring +3, Winter +3* Reputations: Awesome Force of Nature (local) 5 Combat:  Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +9, Damage n/a  Fist: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +2  Icy Battleaxe: Init +3, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +5 Soak: +6 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (charging), Awareness 5 (sneak attacks), Area Lore 1 (local region), Brawl 5 (dodge), Concentration 5 (Auram effects), Finesse 5 (shaping effects), Etiquette 1 (Muspelli), Folk Ken 5 (first impressions), Guile 5 (misleading), Hunt 4 (tracking), Ignem Resistance 3 (ice), Living Language: Local Language 2 (warnings), Living Language: Norse 5 (warnings), Magic Lore 5 (Regiones), Organization Lore: Muspelli 5 (Jotnar), Penetration 6 (Auram effects), Second Sight 5 (invisible things), Single Weapon 6 (axe), Stealth''
''5 (stalking), Wilderness Sense 6 (finding settlements) Powers: Breath of Unfathomable Cold 3 points, Init –14, Ignem R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part Cools the air within 1000 paces of the target, leaving it freezing. All nonliving things are chilled thoroughly, not just on the surface. All living things, except the Aspect, suffer +5 damage. Armor does not add to Soak against this spell. House fires become as small as campfires, bonfires become as small as torch fires, and campfires and smaller fires go out. PeIg 45 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +4 size): Lesser Power (x2, 45 levels; 1pt Mastery for –2 Might cost); Improved Powers (–4 Might cost) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init +3, Corpus: Slidr can assume material form. Cr(Re)Co 25 (Base 5 +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite): Greater Power (25 levels, –3 Might cost, +10xp Penetration) Eidolon, 0 points, Init +4, Imaginem R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind Creates an illusionary form visible and audible to material beings. The image can move and speak as directed by the spirit and lasts until the spirit has no use for it. CrIm 15 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Conc, +2 Move on command, +1 intricacy): Greater Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost, +2 Init, +15xp Penetration) Eternal Snows 1 point, Init –16, Auram R: Voice, D: Year, T: Group Creates clouds dropping snow over an area about 10 miles across. The clouds gather over a few seconds at the beginning of the spell, and dissipate over the same sort of time when duration concludes. The spell does affect temperature, chilling the air thoroughly. Cr(Pe)Au(Ig) 50 (Base 2, +2 Voice, +4 Year, +2 Group, +2 Size, +2 Requisites): Ritual Power (50 levels): Improved Powers (x2, –9 Might cost, +5 xp Penetration) Flight of the Biting Zephyr 1 points, Init +2, Corpus  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind Slidr can fly through the air in any direction, simply by concentrating. If distracted, this control is lost but the''
''power still holds the spirit aloft indefinitely. ReCo 25 (Base 15, +2 Sun, constant): Personal Power (25 levels); Improved Powers (–1 Might cost) Madness of the Perpetual Winter 0 points, Init –8, Mentem R: Sight, D: Moon, T: Group Groups of up to 1000 people within sight of Slidr are filled with anger and resentment, looking for any excuse to take it out on those around them. In almost all cases, this quickly develops into violence. CrMe 45 (Base 4, +3 Sight, +3 Moon, +2 Group, +2 size): Greater Power (50 levels); Improved Powers (–5 Might cost) Master of Winter’s Cloak, up to 8 points, Init +4–Magnitude, Aquam  Slidr may create non-ritual Creo/Muto/ Rego Aquam effects pertaining to snow and ice up to 8th magnitude. (Focus power x2; 2 Mastery points spent on Ignem prerequisites, 1pt Perdo prerequisites) Through the Winds of the Storm, 1 point, Init +4, Corpus  R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision All five of Slidr’s senses operate at a distance, as far as the Aspect can see. This gives Slidr supernatural awareness of everything which occurs, and it is exceptionally difficult to catch it by surprise. InIm 30 (Base 5, +1 Conc, +4 Vision): Personal Power x 2 (20 levels, –2 Might cost, +2 Init) Vis: There are three pawns of Aquam and Auram vis in the frost on the Slidr’s clothes, and there are two pawns of Ignem and Mentem vis in its eyes. Appearance: Slidr looks like a platinumblonde Nordic man with an extremely pale complexion and a white, ice-encrusted beard stretching down to his chest. He wears heavy, fur-lined hide armor coated in frost and carries a battle axe with a head and haft of pale blue ice. Design Note: This is only one example of an Aspect of Fimbulwinter. Others may have different powers associated with the particular Aspect’s reputation or specialties.''
''nature, and that the site has magical significance. They may know this operation is related to the coming Fimbulwinter, depending on how significant they are. A captured Muspelli knows the Fimbulwinter plot, and the plan to use Irminsul sites to summon Aspects of Fimbulwinter. They all know what Lokeshafr looks like in human and etin-mod form, and know the etinmod of at least one other Muspelli. If Thwarted: As long as the Muspelli escapes, he returns to enact the summoning ritual in a month. He returns whether or not the Irminsul remains here; if it is moved or destroyed, he uses an Arcane Connection to determine its fate with Spadomur. The Spoils: Searching the sailors’ minds with Mentem magic provides a weak image or description for scrying attempts, and only if the Muspelli is not in etin-mod. If the Irminsul is discovered, it could be moved to provide a vis source for the player covenant. Ritual Confrontation: Several grogs report being attacked and chased away from a distant vis source by large group of enormous wolves. They only escaped after falling down a steep, snow-covered slope. One believes he saw men clearing some kind of space at the site. A pair of Muspelli and their servants plan to enact an Aspect summoning ritual there with the new moon. If Ignored: Neglecting to stop the Muspelli means he successfully summons another Aspect of Fimbulwinter. If Captured: The wolves are a combination of Wolves of Virtue and werewolves. They know the human and etin-mod forms of the Muspelli, and understand he intends to perform a ritual at the Irminsul. They do not know the result of the ritual. The Muspelli knows nothing additional for this phase. If Thwarted: As long as the Muspelli escapes, he returns to enact the summoning ritual in a month. He returns whether or not the Irminsul remains here; if it is moved or destroyed, he uses an Arcane Connection to determine its fate. The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and still functioning Walking Dead may serve as sources of Insight into Trolldomur magic. The Wolves of Virtue contain vis.''
''Hermetic Correspondence''
''These story options arrive via Tribunal gossip, bits of conversation made in passing by traveling magi who seek hospitality, visit''
''ing Redcaps, or House Guernicus’ quaesitors prosecuting an investigation. These events are near the covenant, but primarily affect other members of the Order or the inhabitants of the region.''
''Ritual Confrontation: A local, incognizant faerie approaches the magi in search of assistance. One of its faerie allies has been captured by the Muspelli. The pagan sorcerer plans to do something terrible very soon, unless the magi can stop him. The Muspelli will kill the victim, and then use its external vis in the utiseta, utterly destroying the faerie.''
''If Ignored: Neglecting to stop the Muspelli means he successfully completes the intended summoning. It may also draw the ire of the faerie the magi spurned, creating another foe the magi don’t need, one who may become cognizant enough to take the role of the traitorous ally.''
''If Captured: The Muspelli knows nothing additional for this phase.''
''If Thwarted: As long as the Muspelli escapes, he returns to enact the summoning ritual in a month, though he lacks the captive faerie. He returns whether or not the Irminsul remains here; if it is moved or destroyed, he uses an Arcane Connection to determine its fate.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body and gandur may serve as sources of Insight into Trolldomur magic.''
''The Event: A Redcap arrives in early winter, after several very cold days, explaining how he encountered numerous Walking Dead plaguing a town that acts as a regular resting point for traveling Mercere, and requests assistance from the covenant. The Muspelli are preparing to overwhelm the town and enact a Fimbulwinter or Aspect summoning ritual there. They had hoped to capture the Redcap for intelligence and sacrifice.''
''If Ignored: The town is engulfed by a Fimbulwinter utiseta and the population is turned into Walking Dead. The effect lasts for a year.''
''If Captured: The Muspelli knows nothing additional for this phase.''
''If Thwarted: The Muspelli abandons this scheme if it does not meet with success, unless the town contains an Irminsul, in which case he returns in a month to attempt to summon an Aspect.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and still functioning Walking Dead may serve as sources of Insight into Trolldomur magic. The Muspelli may also have any easily portable loot from the sacked town, such as gold church items.''
''A Winter Homecoming''
''The Muspelli intend to perform a summoning ritual at the covenant’s Irminsul. To conceal this action, they plan an attack on the covenant itself, to distract the magi from their true purpose, but only if covenant is established above ground and not in a regio. Even if the Irminsul is distant from the covenant, they engage to keep the covenant occupied and ensure the Muspelli can summon the Aspect without interruption. Ideally, if they’ve gained sufficient intelligence through captured or subverted covenfolk, they attack on the day of the Aegis ritual, hoping to prevent its conclusion, so that the newly arrived Aspect can affect the whole community. Otherwise, their attack arrives in the small hours of the night, after any shift change. The Muspelli’s forces open with massed volleys of mundane fire arrows, attempting to ignite as many structures as possible. If possible, they use Entranced proxy forces from nearby mundane lords or outposts, or stage a false flag attack on the nearby lord, with a “captured” Muspelli soldier who claims to serve the covenant. This planted prisoner threatens the local leadership with terrible acts against the members of their households. Meanwhile, the Muspelli and a small escort travel to the Irminsul vis site. There, they perform the summoning ritual. Once complete, the Muspelli conceals the Irminsul in a new, nearby location and departs, suggesting the newly freed Aspect start by bringing winter to the magi’s covenant. Appropriate Muspelli for this event include Magnus or Gunnvara, who complete the utiseta, and possibly Leif or Kotkill, who lead or guide the attack on the covenant proper, depending on whether the attackers are proxies or Muspelli forces. Other options include only mundane, but either loyal''
''or Entranced forces attacking the covenant, and supernatural allies protecting the casting Muspelli. Once the Aspect arrives, any Muspelli attacking the covenant immediately retreats, but says nothing to the other attackers, leaving them to unwittingly cover the retreat.Should the Muspelli succeed, the covenant finds itself truly in the thick of both winter and a vicious brawl against a powerful Magic Aspect. The spirit means to cover the world in perpetual snow, drifting in banks up to four feet tall, starting here. The aftermath of this battle could have serious repercussions for the survival of the covenant, depending on the damage to the infrastructure, and the magical effects in place from the Muspelli or the Aspect. If any of the Muspelli died during this attack, their bodies and gandar serve as sources of Insight for magi investigating Trolldomur. Additionally, enduring utiseta effects could be researched for a season, if the duration is sufficient. If killed in their etin-mod, the Muspelli corpse may also act as a source of Insight if preserved and studied. The body is also an Arcane Connection to the Muspelli’s ghost. Captured or dead allies of the Muspelli know their attack was the distraction for another ritual nearby. The don’t know what the ritual was, or exactly where. They can provide images or descriptions of the Muspelli in human and etin-mod form. If interrogated, the Muspelli can provide information any remaining plots he may have planned, such as framing the covenant, starting a false conflict with the Raudskinna, or the location of another Irminsul. If the rest of the player characters’ Tribunal members doubted the possibility of Fimbulwinter, the aftermath of the attack and the likely presence of the Aspect should go a long way toward convincing them. If prevented from completing the utiseta, the Muspelli returns two seasons later to attempt the operation again.''
''The Egesterenstein''
''As the third stage progresses, the Muspelli claim the Egesterenstein in the Teutoberger Wald. This ancient stone monument served as a pagan holy site until Charlemagne defeated the Saxons in 792. There are several caves here, serving as residences for the half-dozen hermit monks who maintain a small, rough chapel on the ground floor. This chapel has no Divine aura, as there is''
''no sufficient congregation that gathers to regularly worship here, and no relic consecrated within the altar. The monks mostly ignore the former pagan altar space, high above the valley in a grotto atop the third of five monoliths. This grotto is accessed only by a narrow stone staircase, carved along the raw stone of the sheer face, and the monks occasionally use it for prayer and contemplation; it has a Magic aura of 3, which rises to 5 on the Summer Solstice. These clergy stand no chance against the Muspelli’s forces. Magnus, Gunnvara, or even Ingvar is a good choice for this site. This site has great significance to the Jotnar, and the Muspelli layer their defenses around it to keep it. First, Entranced locals deter most visitors, giving warnings regarding fictitious hauntings. Next, the Muspelli use loyal mercenaries to patrol. Finally, a Jotun Aspect and a large horde of Walking Dead protect the base of the Egesterenstein itself. High in the grottochapel, the Muspelli remains in etin-mod, sacrificing monks and other offerings until the summoning ritual is complete. For storyguides wishing to increase the difficulty of this event, consider adding converted vitkir with skills identical to those presented later. Also, adding Leif Ormsbrodir to the ranks of the mercenaries, ready to fight in etin-mod, is another option for a greater challenge.''
''Sunday, Laetare Sunday''
''This attack may throw the characters off balance, as it does not involve an existing Irminsul. Instead, it involves a tradition associated with Laetare Sunday. The Divine ceremony commemorates Charlemagne’s victory over the Saxons and the end of paganism in the Holy Roman Empire. On the 4th Sunday of Lent, in villages and towns throughout the Saxony region, the residents raise a wooden Irminsul in their town square, and then the young men throw stones at it until it topples. Taking advantage of this ritual, the Muspelli strike after the Irminsul is raised, but before the traditional toppling of the monument. First, they overwhelm the town with their allies and supernatural powers. Then, using the Irminsul as the Arcane Connection to Fimbulwinter and the focus of the ritual, the Muspelli completes the summoning ritual. Laetare Sunday is always three Sundays prior to Easter, but the date varies from year to year.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Right Here, Right Now==

''Alternatively, the storyguide could make the Egesterenstein the site of the most prominent stronghold for the Muspelli. There is a certain poetic justice to having the pagan forces violently capture their former holy place from the token group of monks occupying it, using the blood of those devout men to reconsecrate their sacrificial stone as a Muspelli performs the magical ritual which brings forth a Magic spirit intent on enveloping the world in the howling cold of winter. The site is formidable and impressive, potentially serving as a very capable redoubt against mundane forces. This brings the masterstroke of the Muspelli plan into the heartland of Hermetic society, and the significance of this act does not escape Ingvar. In this case, replace Magnus or Gunnvara with Ingvar and his sons, while adding any remaining Muspelli to support the area. Afterward, if successful, this Muspelli delays an extra day to revel in the victory represented here, before continuing to the next Irminsul site. The Aspect is sent into the world to cause havoc, and the mercenaries accompany the Muspelli, but the Walking Dead are ordered to remain and guard the site, and the locals remain Entranced until the effect ends. If the player magi attack and interrupt this utiseta, then much like the aftermath of an attack on the player covenant, the useful items of note are likely to include the captured Muspelli or their bodies, and their personal effects. If any of the Muspelli died during the attack, their bodies and gandar serve as sources of Insight for magi investigating Trolldomur. Here, particularly, the location may be studied for Insight, as could the altar stone or the sacrificial victims, but this involves keeping the site secure from the surviving monks who want to reoccupy their chapel.''

|}
''This event always provides another Irminsul site, helping the Muspelli complete their plan through an unwitting ally in local tradition. It is not an essential event, but one which can be placed anywhere in the Rhine Tribunal, and so it offers flexibility for saga planning, and establishes a precise date for a battle which allows both the Hermetics and the Muspelli to plan accordingly. In sagas where the storyguide wants Fimbulwinter to begin simultaneously across Mythic Europe, Laetare Sunday provides an established time and day for the Muspelli to coordinate around, synchronizing the summoning at more traditional or ancient Irminsul to conclude at the same time as a battle here. Those captured at this event provide no additional information for this phase. If thwarted, the Muspelli will attempt this same attack in a different village next year, until killed.''
''The Heart of Winter''
''Ingvar Suttungja’s redoubt in the Nordic region is not given a specific location, so the storyguide may place it as best fits her saga. Some options include the hills near Gamla Uppsala, where he has gathered relics and the Irminsul of the great Temple, secreted away before its destruction in the late 11th century, or the island of Gotland, or even in the pagan lands of the Balts, where the werewolves run in the forests. No matter which location you select, he has an Irminsul and is guarded by both his family and allies as he prepares to com''
''plete an Aspect summoning. Once the third stage begins, he regularly performs this summoning, so as to bring the Aspect back from the Magic Realm if it has been recently destroyed. Some local werewolf tribes and hedge wizards are allied with this powerful Muspelli. Ingvar should have a sizable force of Walking Dead, and his home is often cloaked in the veil of Sjonhverfing. A battle against this potent non-Hermetic sorcerer should be a conflict of epic proportions, scaled to truly challenge the player magi. Ingvar fights to the death and refuses to surrender. He believes he has seen the future of his land and of his beliefs, and feels Fimbulwinter is the only way to preserve any of it. He hopes his efforts truly bring about the new beginning he envisions Ragnarok to be. Defeating Ingvar seriously hampers the Muspelli threat. No other member of the cabal has the force of personality to inspire independent members of their tradition, and he discovered the Aspect summoning ritual. With his death, no new Muspelli join the crusade to bring Fimbulwinter, and only surviving members of his conspiracy remain to fight the Order of Hermes. Their cabal is still significant, but this loss greatly hinders their momentum. Ingvar provides a wealth of information, as he knows all of the Irminsul sites discovered by the other members of the cabal, and can describe members in human and etin-mod forms. He can detail potential plots in development by the other Muspelli, as well, since he advised them when he taught the summoning ritual. For magi seeking to decipher or incorporate Muspelli magic into Hermetic Theory, the bodies of any of the Muspelli who died during the attack, their bodies and gandar might serve as sources of Insight. Also, Ingvar’s redoubt and his Irminsul could be researched for Insight. If Ingvar possesses relics from the former temple in Gamla Uppsala, Sweden, these are most likely non-Hermetic magic items and sources of Insight.''

==Second Phase: False Trails==

''The Muspelli respond to the Hermetics’ active engagement with distractions and red herrings. As events progress, Muspelli may create situations to distract from their true goals and to keep the Order of Hermes oc''
''cupied while the Aspects rampage, helping create the conditions described in old eddas. An enemy who cannot identify the true strategy of the servants of the Jotnar in a storm of events is an enemy unlikely to prevent Fimbulwinter, and therefore unable to prevent Ragnarok. This is where the hordes of walking dead and intelligence gathered in the first and second stages pay true dividends. Storyguides seeking a particular Muspelli to bring into conflict with the covenant should consider Gunnvara Jarnvidja or Magnus Norn, with the “Shadow War” concept being a chance to bring Ingvar Suttungja more into play. Magnus is especially appropriate to this section. However, storyguides should still be careful to keep Ingvar from being traced easily. At this point, he should seem like the foe they just can’t pin down, even if other Muspelli have mentioned him. These are distraction plotlines, meant to be started up when the Aspects are being released, to provide additional chaos. These plotlines should continue to run their courses, drawing resources, causing difficulties, and generally causing trouble in the magi’s world as the Muspelli continue to enact Aspect summoning utisetas. At this point, the saga should feel like the full-blown war it is.''
''Telling Tales''
''The information player characters can learn by interrogating the Muspelli or their minions in the second half of the stage is similar to the intelligence available in the first half, except now even the thugs and reivers aiding the pagan sorcerers know the Muspelli are seeking out Irminsul, and know the Muspelli perform a ritual at the old monuments. Dead or alive, they can provide human and etin-mod descriptions, and can describe what Irminsul look like. The Muspelli still do what they can to keep things secret. Muspelli know their Irminsul sites, the summoning ritual, the face and etin-mod of Ingvar, and likely the etin-mod of at least one other Muspelli.''
''The Price of Ignorance''
''It is possible the covenant may still wish to pursue their own agendas, either preparing to flee the destruction or simply shelter in place. Adjust their plotlines accordingly with the consequences of any successful Muspelli actions.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: For the Children''
''Player magi discovering the site of the Laetare Sunday Fimbulwinter summoning afterwards find it protected by Helgam of Bonisagus. In this scenario, the Muspelli managed to capture the apprentices she intended to shepherd to safety, and they are held hostage for a year and day as Helgam is forced to defend the site from any Hermetics who arrive intending to destroy the Irminsul. The fate of the apprentices, whether they actually still live, is left as a decision for the storyguide.''

|}
''The Snake By the Tail''
''The Order of Hermes and its magi present the single largest and most dangerous threat to the Muspelli; opposing them directly without the proper preparation most certainly results in terrible defeat. However, even the Hermetics have their weak points. Individually, isolated lone magi, or eremites, offer targets a raiding or scouting party can overwhelm, especially if Muspelli learn to time attacks at dawn or dusk. Given the limited social activity of most magi, such opportunistic attacks could remain unnoticed for months. Once discovered, investigations consume resources and attention as quaesitors first determine whether any crime has been committed, then begin seeking culprits. By then, the Muspelli’s band is long-gone with their loot. Redcaps offer another target. Defensively weaker, they often carry lesser enchanted items, large amounts of vis, and some amount of silver, all of which Muspelli want. However, Redcaps likely have Arcane Connections safely stored back at their home covenants or at the domus magna of Harco. This means a curious magus will eventually interrogate their bodies or spirits once their absence is noted. Such investigation leaves the Order of Hermes more suspicious of''
''traveling groups like a Muspelli party. While this may seem like an unfortunate loss of the magi’s resources, the time spent investigating the Redcap’s death offers the chance for increased Hermetic awareness of Muspelli plans and membership.''
''Shadow War''
''The Muspelli stand a reasonable chance of framing the Raudskinna Compact for their activities, and potentially distracting the Order of Hermes with a secondary conflict, if you choose to include the Compact in your version of Mythic Europe. Such an accomplishment would pit the Muspelli’s oldest foe against their greatest threat while leaving the servants of the Jotnar free to complete their goals. But how would they instigate hostilities between the two groups? The easiest way to begin a war is to make both sides believe the other started events. One way to arrange such a belief requires the Muspelli to capture and Entrance a group of Redcaps or grogs, directing them to attack a Raudskinna community, preferably using enchanted items, but not overwhelming force. Once defeated, a properly “prodded” Raudskinna, inflamed by Entranced members of their own community, responds in kind, sending a retributive warband into Hermetic territory, striking at what they either suspect or know to be weak. This spurs a series of retributitive attacks, where the Order likely overpowers the Raudskinna. In desperation, the Raudskinna explore a number of options, from seeking help from the Muspelli, to suing for peace, to making a last stand. This subordinate story arc may unfold in the background, once initiated, observed from a distance by the player characters and prosecuted by other members of the Order of Hermes. The Muspelli could remain more involved, but as a “fifth column,” offering to support either side against the other, while purposefully sabotaging operations. This is a dangerous gamble, because most Muspelli have little to no resistance against Hermetic Mentem magics, and such a role risks premature discovery, with disastrous results. Assisting the Raudskinna is equally dangerous, because in a conflict between the vitkir and the Hermetics, the Order of Hermes will eventually win, leaving the Muspelli to “join or die.”However, if the Muspelli can learn about and gain the Parma Magica, the tenor''
''of the whole conflict changes. The Raudskinna Compact is detailed in Rival Magic, pages 106-109, and rules for vitkir, the main members, are given in Hedge Magic, pages 120-140.''
''Regional Troubles''
''To the common folk, there is little difference between the terrifying Muspelli in their etin-mod, and the Hermetic wizards studying in their covenants. It doesn’t matter how badly the local residents misperceive their attackers, falling quickly back to easily remembered suspicions about those strange scholars and their rough guardsmen. By attacking soft targets serving as sources of income and prestige to both nobility and clergy, the Muspelli essentially kick a very angry bear predisposed to suspect the magi.''
''The Event: Several groups of refugees arrive at the covenant and the castles of local lords after raiders burn and partially destroy their villages. They claim their attackers did not die, and while there are signs of people being killed, the wreckage of each community is devoid of any corpses. A local priest believes the covenant is at fault, and has the ear of both the local noble and the bishop. In truth, a Muspelli is marching through the countryside at night, slaughtering whomever he can, commanding the victims with Valgaldrar, and then hiding the mob of Walking Dead during the day with Sjonhverfing.''
''If Ignored: If the covenant cannot convince the priest and the lord they are not culpable for the attacks, bringing proof which withstands their accuser’s scrutiny, they may face Divinely backed retribution and larger political troubles within the Order. Meanwhile, the Muspelli and a growing horde of Walking Dead continues to terrorize the countryside, and popular opinion against them mounts.''
''If Captured: Still functioning Walking Dead may serve as an arcane connection back to the Muspelli who created them. The Muspelli knows nothing additional for this phase.''
''If Thwarted: Capturing either minions or the Muspelli responsible for this event does little to help the covenant’s case with the bishop or noble. There is a suspicion the magi have''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==My Enemy Is My Friend==

''There is a possibility the Muspelli could join the Order of Hermes, if they learn of the “Join or Die” clause. If they do so, the situation becomes complex. The covenant must now deal with the Muspelli as peers (unless they wish to become outlaws themselves and act outside the Code of Hermes), bringing proof of their activities before a Quaesitor or Tribunal, while dealing with foes who now know the Parma Magica and might even accuse the covenant of depriving them of their magical power or scrying on them. Even then, the magi need to overcome the Order’s political perception of House Ex Miscellanea as a collection of weak hedge wizards, a task made harder by the fact that the Muspelli are, indeed, weaker than Hermetic magi in most ways.This option radically changes the tone of the saga.''

|}
''created a scapegoat. Ideally, a third-party witness beyond reproach would need to vouch for the guilt of the Muspelli. Allowing the Muspelli to escape means he continues to harass the covenant through other schemes.''
''The Spoils: The Muspelli has any vis he carries, and any gandur. His body, gandur, and still functioning Walking Dead may serve as sources of Insight into Trolldomur magic. The Muspelli may also have any easily portable loot from sacked towns, such as gold church items.''
''Hermetic Correspondence''
''The Event: Several Redcaps and a Peregrinator Magus have disappeared while traveling through the Rhine to Stonehenge. There have been signs of struggles and attacks, and the Praecos, Presiding Quaesitors, and Redcaps of both Tribunals have asked for assistance resolving the issue, perhaps offering leniency on other issues, like interfering with the mundanes, if the covenant can successfully resolve their fates. Several of the bodies are discovered upon searching, with evidence suggesting that vitkir or hedge wizards are responsible.''
''If Ignored: Failing to investigate means the Muspelli reclaim and use the bodies with Valgaldrar and Sjonhverfing to fake an attack on the Raudskinna Compact, attempting to incite hostilities.''
''If Successful: Using Mentem or Corpus magics to interrogate the deceased paints another picture of their deaths and provides clues to their Muspelli murderers, perhaps revealing weaknesses or otherwise undiscovered connections.''
''The Spoils: The dead members of the Order have a few magical items left behind by the Muspelli, who did not know the items were magic or did not care to take them. These items might be used by the covenant or returned to the deceased individuals’ next of kin, who reward the covenant for successfully answering the questions surrounding their fates. While these answers are to the satisfaction of those who requested the covenant’s assistance, the situation hopefully inspires more questions from the player characters.''
''The Event: Arriving disheveled and bloody, a hedge wizard ally reports being attacked or hunted by a group of men with rune-marked weaponry. In fact, he has been Entranced, and commanded to lead the cov''
''enant into an ambush orchestrated by the Muspelli, but fought by the Raudskinna. The Muspelli has captured Raudskinna allies, and made it appear that the covenant, working through hedge wizard proxies, is responsible. The captives are hidden in another hedge wizard’s home and the Raudskinna attack when it seems like the Hermetics are about to free the captives, thinking they mean to harm them.''
''If Ignored: This encounter escalates hostilities between the Raudskinna and the Order of Hermes. If no one is dispatched to engage the Raudskinna, they kill the hedge wizard and three other lesser hedge wizards in the area.''
''If Captured: Using magic to interrogate the Entranced victim provides more details regarding one of the Muspelli. Questioning the Raudskinna forces reveals that someone told them about the attack, and where to set the ambush.''
''If Thwarted: If cooler heads prevail, the attack can be turned into a meeting and an opportunity for either truce or alliance between the Order of Hermes and the Raudskinna. The Spoils: The Raudskinna have a number of rune-marked weapons and items, all non-Hermetic, as well as about 7 pawns of vis. The hedge wizards have roughly a rook of vis hidden away.''
''The Event: A Redcap arrives to trade with the covenant, and reports being attacked by men with rune-marked weapons who spoke a Nordic language. They captured him and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Winter’s Bite==

''Fimbulwinter grows harsher after Aspects roam the land for a year or more. Scotland and Scandinavia become outright uninhabitable, with regular levels of Major Exposure for those outdoors (Deprivation checks each hour, Ease Factor 9 or +3 frostbite damage). While those acclimated to winter in places like Norway or Orkney might initially endure the weather, the cold spurs migration from north to south, with the highlanders moving first, and then a second wave of “barbarian” invasions. This makes traveling to prospective Fimbulwinter sites more difficult as refugees clog the roads, ship captains refuse to carry passengers for less than exorbitant rates, and banditry becomes commonplace. The covenant may need to become more vicious and brutal if they hope to complete their task; the question becomes, do they have the resources to match their resolve?''

==Story Seed: Plowing Through==

''The covenant’s source of food, either a merchant, a group of nearby fields, or maybe the surplus generated by a nearby manor, has been taken by another party, such as a local knight or lord, or even a hungry mob of refugees. The covenant must either secure the previous supply, or acquire a new one, and consider how they handle growing influx of refugees asking the covenant for shelter. Do the area’s lords consider it a theft of labor, or do they demand taxes in the form of foodstuffs?''

==Story Seed: A Lordly Tribute==

''The growing expanse of Fimbulwinter exhausts most reasonable stores after two years of snow and cold. Recently, nobles have begun confiscating animals and hoarding craftsmen. Edicts declare any poacher may be killed on sight. A roving band of “tax collecting” men-at-arms, led by the local ruler’s cousin, spot the covenant’s smaller band eating well, and decide to “collect” both the lord’s share, and the relatively well-made weapons the group carries. Giving the resources over could weaken the covenant’s ability to oppose the Muspelli and any lawless elements. Killing the upstart means making an overt enemy out of the lord, as peasants watch the altercation from nearby concealment. Can the magi handle the situation with enough restraint?''

|}
''killed his mount, but he escaped while they slept. He doesn’t think he was followed, but they have his satchel. The men are Entranced allies of the Raudskinna Compact, commanded to take the satchel to a vitki by a Muspelli.''
''If Ignored: The Compact’s men are killed and the Order of Hermes is framed for the act. The Compact organizes a raiding party to strike out at covenant resource. The Muspelli gain information about any of the magi who wrote letters. Following the men but only watching their deaths unnoticed earns the observer the Haunted Flaw until the Muspelli and their killers are slain. However, the ghosts sometimes appear to point the haunted individual in the direction of nearby culprits. At other times, the ghosts simply torment the individual. Failure to allow them inside an Aegis of the Hearth angers them. Destroying any of their number with PeVi or PeMe magics causes them to stop helping the observer, and simply do what they can to make life miserable around the haunted person.''
''If Captured: If cooler heads prevail, the attack can be turned into a meeting and an opportunity for either truce or alliance between the Order of Hermes and the Raudskinna.''
''If Thwarted: The Muspelli is willing to try this gambit again, and if the ruse is successful, repeat it with minor variations until either full-blown war erupts between the''
''Order and the Raudskinna, the two organizations form some type of alliance, or one of the two dupes is completely eliminated from the area.''
''The Spoils: The Raudskinna have a few rune-marked weapons and items, all nonHermetic, but none very powerful. The Redcap is willing to provide the covenant with two rooks of vis of their choice for helping ensure the successful delivery of his parcels.''

==In the Storm and  Ending It==

''As events unfold, the covenant must manage many elements of the situation. Changes in the availability of mundane and supernatural resources demand attention from the player characters. The wizards might investigate the nature of Fimbulwinter in order to learn the identity of their enemy or in an attempt to incorporate a new type of magic into Hermetic theory. Once the player characters discover the Muspelli plot and recognize the threat posed by the Aspects, chances are good they will go on the offensive, seeking out ways to halt the winter’s escalation and reverse its effects.''
''The Cost of the Cold''
''Fimbulwinter inevitably impacts mundane supplies, as the freezing weather both reduces harvests and forces the populace to seek better living conditions. Simple necessities, like tools, laboratory supplies, or livestock, become difficult to acquire as the covenant competes with nearby communities for the raw materials necessary to survive. While not every troupe tracks their logistical matters, stories regarding dwindling stocks and shortages should become a recurring part of the saga after the second Fimbulwinter Aspect is released, helping accentuate the forced migration of the common populace when their land can no longer support them and the desperate competition for remaining resources among those who attempt to shelter in place.''
''Divine Intervention''
''​Where is the Divine as Fimbulwinter blossoms into its full, terrible glory? The storyguide has a few options to consider. First, the Host of Heaven may simply arrive in Mythic Europe and bring those with True Faith back to the Kingdom of God, creating a “left behind” situation for the rest of humanity. (This is a bad option if any player characters have True Faith.) Second, there may be a number of subtle Divine interventions where wood burns far longer than normal, or''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: A Fistful of Vis==

''A Muspelli has been poaching all of the Rego vis in the area in preparation for a Wildfire utiseta against a covenant. The victims of one of these thefts suspect the player characters, and go to challenge them for the rights to their vis sites. Confronting the magi at each vis site, they demand certamen for the right to the existing vis, and certamen for the right to continue collecting the vis. Unable to catch the Muspelli thief looting their sites, they believe the player characters know something, and hope to use access to the vis as a bargaining chip. While no individual magus is challenging the characters to certamen excessively often, the cumulative effect is far more than a minor annoyance.''

|}

==Story Seed: In the Act==

''The magi arrive to collect the vis from one of their sites, only to discover a magical wolf servant of Kotkill busily harvesting it (see ArM5, page 193) for the Muspelli. The many-in-one nature of the enemy means there are no corpses to question unless the primary creature is killed, and taking the vis after killing the beast causes it to disintegrate. If the magi capture or keep the creature’s corpse, they can interrogate it, but cannot get the vis until they are satisfied with the answers. Bringing the live creature inside the Aegis as a prisoner requires giving it a token or involving it in the ritual; either option has complications. And more importantly, what do they do with what they learn from the encounter?''

==Story Seed: The Old Grey Mare==

''Brigands accost a group of covenfolk and steal the livestock being used to complete their chores. The thieves sell the beasts to the local lord, who now has them, and considers them his rightful property. Reclaiming the animals isn’t as simple as purchasing them, because the noble now hoards his resources, and feels the livestock are essential to his household’s survival. Even by requesting the livestock, the magi might reveal their own community as another resource the ruler feels he has a right to strip for his own comfort. Do they surreptitiously steal the animals back without approaching? Do they acquire new animals from afar? And what will be the fate of the thieves?''
''a week’s worth of grain produces bread for seven weeks, but these should be reserved for those of great piety. Finally, the Divine may treat Fimbulwinter as a test of faith, an opportunity for mankind to live and exemplify the ways of God in the face of great adversity. In any case, the response should not take agency away from the player characters or make their choices meaningless.''
''...Make Good Neighbors''
''The loss of vis sources generates issues for both the player character magi and other Hermetics. Converting auras to Trolldomur destroys vis sources. Depending on the location of a vis source relative to other Tribunals, foreign magi may cross their borders to poach the covenant’s site after theirs has been damaged or taken. Muspelli might also steal vis from unguarded sources, or supernatural creatures might consume the vis to survive. These stories could occur at any point in the saga, but particularly in the second phase of the first stage, as the Muspelli prepare and execute their plans, and then during the second phase of the third stage, as the Muspelli prosecute their war of attrition.''
''The Source of the Effects''
''Discovering the origin of Fimbulwinter means hunting down witnesses who may have seen a summoning ritual performed, and then unraveling the mystery of the Muspelli tradition by learning who they are and what they desire. In the course of the investigation, the player characters may find themselves approaching the Raudskinna to learn about the greatest enemy of the vitkir. They might engage local hedge wizards, Seekers, or other Hermetics with reputations as scholars of non-Hermetic traditions, trying to gain information on Muspelli tactics and motivations. Given that the enemy follows a pagan philosophy, necromantic specialists might bind the ghosts of defeated or long-dead Muspelli for extended interrogation. They might decide to study Fimbulwinter and the Muspelli’s magical tradition of Trolldomur, in an effort to incorporate it into Hermetic Theory. This last option represents a Hermetic Breakthrough, representing the integration of the utiseta-style casting method as an alternative for ceremonial casting.''
''Chasing the Culprits''
''Once the player characters realize the Muspelli are responsible for releasing the Aspects of Fimbulwinter, they may decide to hunt down the pagan sorcerers. Killing all of the living Muspelli who know the Aspect summoning ritual brings the threat to an end. However, in order to perpetuate Fimbulwinter, the Muspelli only need to transmit the summoning ritual to other Muspelli, a process which takes a season of instruction. If the Hermetics discover the Muspelli are Arcane Connections to the Jotnar, they might decide to exploit the connection in reverse. Once dead, Muspelli are no longer Arcane Connections to their Jotun patron. By hunting down a particular Jotun in the Magic Realm and acquiring an Arcane Connection, it is possible to create an effect capable of affecting all Muspelli associated with the Jotun. This effect could be as subtle as a Rego Mentem charm, causing the Muspelli to become farmers, or a bloody killing spell.''
''Hunting Aspects''
''Magi are likely to face Aspects of Fimbulwinter in magical combat, potentially destroying a particular Aspect more than once. The Aspects are a part of the Daimon of Fimbulwinter and also individuals at the same time. Aspects carry grudges between incarnations, remembering who destroyed their previous form, as well as any interactions they may have had with those characters. This task is both potentially simple and challenging; following the wintry trail of an Aspect is easier during the early seasons of the third stage, but once winter is widespread, locating Aspects somewhere in the countryside requires a dedicated hunt or an Arcane Connection.''
''Hunting Irminsul''
''By destroying the Irminsul, the Order of Hermes eliminates the Arcane Connection necessary for the Muspelli to summon Aspects of Fimbulwinter. This option is likely to bring the player characters into direct conflict with the Muspelli more often, because the servants of the Jotnar are also looking for these pagan altars. Unfortunately, while it might slow the number of Aspects which can be released into Mythic Europe,''
''this is not a foolproof course of action. Magi may choose to use the Irminsuls as an Arcane Connection to affect the currently summoned Aspect; the Irminsul is considered an indefinite Arcane Connection. New Irminsuls may only be created through rituals like the Laetare Sunday tradition, or by discovering priests of this tradition in some regio who know how to do so; none are alive in Mythic Europe in 1220.''
''Into the Heart of Winter''
''Similar to affecting all the Muspelli of a particular Jotun, it is possible the magi may decide to venture into the Magic Realm, seeking out the region of Yggdrasil to strike at the kosmokrater they represent, or acquire either the Aspects’ True Names or some other Arcane Connection. Then, armed with this link, they might use it to destroy the Aspects across Mythic Europe with a targeted effect. While certainly possible, such a venture is beyond the scope of this book. Magi would face numerous Jotun foes, lindwurms, trolls, possibly even valkyries; the destruction of the very concept of Fimbulwinter leaves the Aesir with no foe to fight, an intolerable consequence. The Daimon of Fimbulwinter, the kosmokrator trapped in the Magic Realm, should be considered effectively immortal while there. It cannot be damaged by Perdo Vim effects the way other creatures with Might are vulnerable. A Daimon’s connection to the Magic Realm renders it immune to any such attack. Likewise, while the currently summoned Aspects may be destroyed, removing them from Mythic Europe until summoned again, they cannot be eradicated from the Magic Realm.''

==Hermetic Survival: Winter Has Arrived==

''For a Hermetic covenant looking to survive Fimbulwinter, several options exist. This section considers sheltering in place, reestablishing the covenant elsewhere, and finally, what must be done to break Fimbulwinter’s grasp.''

==Dies Irae Riding the Storm==

''To maintain a covenant’s current location, the magi need to consider the basic necessities: concealing the site, maintaining defenses in a world growing decidedly more hostile, generating food, and sustaining livestock. In a small mercy, finding water becomes trivial as the snow drifts around them. The first, and most key task, is concealing the covenant. The Aegis and the Parma might keep the worst of the effects outside, and placing the boundary someplace visible has its own hazards. First, an area clear of snow and cold draws mundane creatures of all sizes and shapes, seeking someplace warmer. Even if a ward prevents their entry, the concentration of wildlife and the difference in environment brings hunters and opportunists, looking for supplies. Second, it attracts the attention of Muspelli seeking to realign Magic auras into Trolldomur and eliminate Hermetic magi. While they might not immediately be able to breach the covenant’s defenses, they can certainly engage in a guerrilla war, as the Muspelli attack the covenant’s external mundane and vis resources. With this in mind, covenants should consider hiding their community in some way. Some choices might include going underground or underwater, building within a regio, or even attempting to build something mobile, like a small fleet of ships or a flying structure. Those unable to do so might cloak the site with an Imaginem or Mentem effect. Failing to conceal the covenant means there should be a story every season regarding the defense of the covenant against attacking forces. At least one in three of these attacks should be from magical forces, either Hermetic magi who have forsaken the Code, a magical creature of some kind that is susceptible to deprivation, or a Muspelli raid. To stay independent of the world outside, covenants need to maintain livestock and grow food, which requires heat and light in a protected environment. While food could simply be created magically, if this is done without using vis the people eating the food begin to build a debt of Deprivation which takes effect when the spells’ durations expire. For instance, characters who ate magical food with a duration of Moon every day would need to''
''make a Stamina check at the end of the month versus an Ease Factor 12 or lose three Long-Term Fatigue levels. If they did it again, they would need to make a Stamina check versus an Ease Factor of 21 or suffer the loss of another three Long-Term Fatigue levels. Each successive month of magical food increases the Ease Factor by 9 with the loss of three LongTerm Fatigue levels. When the characters become Unconscious, the loss becomes damage as described under Deprivation, ArM5, page 180. Animals bred as food and sustained on magically created food are not as healthy, and anyone living in such an environment suffers a –2 Living Conditions modifier. To avoid this, people and animals either need to be fed food magically created with vis, or naturally grown. Natural food grown with magical assistance is still naturally grown food.''
''The Hidden Warren''
''PeTe 40 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part This spell carves out 2,500 linear paces of passageway that is two paces by two paces, for a total of 10,000 cubic paces of stone or mixed stone and dirt destroyed. This space may be adjusted to create doorways, rooms, and stairs with a Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 12. An Ease Factor of 15 allows for more intricate details like chairs, tables, and shelves. This spell carves through dirt and stone alike, but a structure cut primarily out of dirt requires wooden supports added afterwards. This spell easily creates a space 6 paces underground, with twenty 5-by-5-by-3 pace rooms joined to a 2-by2-by-60 paces corridor, for approximately 1,775 cubic paces, and allows for 5 such levels, each joined by a 2-by-2 pace stairwell 6 paces deep. The form of the excavation can be modified by the caster, however. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +4 Size, +1 for Stone, +2 for complexity) The Shroud Cut of Winter’s Cloth CrIm(Me) 45 R: Touch, D: Year, T: Boundary [Ritual]''
''Similar to The Shrouded Glen (ArM5, page 152), this spell enchants the Boundary in which the ritual is cast so that anyone moving through it is not only subtly diverted, but believes the space within the Boundary is filled with the image of the terrain of the caster’s choice, usually identical to the area surrounding it. This image affects the senses of sight, touch, and hearing. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 Year, +4 Boundary, +1 Mentem Req.)''
''Chime of a Sunken Spring Day''
''CrIg 24 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Structure Ringing this handbell and setting it against the wall of a structure fills the structure with warmth equivalent a pleasant, balmy, late spring afternoon. (Effect: 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Struct; +1 for 2/day use, +3 Environmental Trigger: Sunrise/set)''
''Chimes to Mark the True Time''
''CrIg 25 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Structure Ringing this handbell and setting it against the wall of a structure fills it with soft light equivalent to torchlight. A covenant would probably desire two of these items to help maintain a schedule underground, but the second would only need to be level 20, as the light provided would be no greater than''
''candlelight to avoid excessively interfering with sleep patterns. (Effect: 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Struct; +0 for 1/day use)''

==Seeking the Warmth==

''Some covenants might consider reestablishing a covenant in a more remote and southerly location with slightly muted winters as one alternative. Options include the caves of Cappadocia or the Pyrenees, the highlands of Ethiopia, the Maghreb of North Africa, or the island of Soqotra. Such an exodus requires packing the necessary essentials, acquiring transportation, and then making the long and arduous journey. Magi probably need to bring their grogs and covenfolk with them when planning relocation to a new site. Anyone at the destination would be untrustworthy at best, and more likely hostile. The new environment of the world would not encourage anyone to welcome newcomers, who would represent an increased strain on available resources. However, the covenant needs to ensure they have translators to speak with the native populations, intelligence regarding the current political situation, and enough raw supplies to survive until local materials can be acquired. The journey will not instantly''
''secure peace, as the locals resist the arrival of refugees. Covenants consolidating their supplies for the journey need to keep them hidden from opportunists and scavengers. A covenant pursuing this option is essentially abandoning Europe to the Muspelli. While other covenants may do the same, there are likely to be those who favor attempting to remain behind and stop Fimbulwinter. This may result in a second schism of the Order, as those who flee are considered traitors by those who stay.''
''A House Already Abandoned''
''MuIm 35 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Structure From outside the structure, the targeted structure appears empty and crumbling, and there are no signs of movement inside. Anyone within the structure seems to be nothing more than a scurrying insect, and any furnishings seem to be rubble. The sounds, sights, and smells of anyone inside are masked and hidden. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +3 Structure, +1 Complexity)''

==The Return of Spring==

''Ultimately, the key to sundering the Muspelli stranglehold on the climate is to kill the Muspelli who initiated it. Once Fimbulwinter is complete and Mythic Europe is cloaked in ice and snow, even mun''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Penetrating Cold==

''Does Fimbulwinter need to Penetrate? This is determined in the normal way. Magically created media or magically controlled substances must Penetrate, but mundane items that have been moved by magic and then released need not. Slidr (earlier) creates snow through a Creo effect, with Perdo for the cold, so the snow and cold must Penetrate. On the other hand, they have a Penetration of 52, and thus are not stopped by most Aegises or Parmas. Storms moved to the area of the covenant and then left to their own devices do not need to Penetrate, but can equally be controlled by magi.''

==Story Seed: The Case for Fight or Flight==

''The magi gather for an impromptu Tribunal gathering as Fimbulwinter overcomes their region. Spirited debate ensues as factions argue the merits of fighting this new situation versus a calm and orderly exodus. Some claim the Order is finished, unable to foresee or forestall this apocalypse. Regardless of their position and the state of the other covenants, some stay and others go, and each side considers the other fools. The question becomes, “Will it be an amicable end, or a violent one?” Some magi might consider settling scores or looting whatever resources are available before the Order effectively dissolves. Or is it possible that the player characters can forge a unified response, now the consequences of inaction have arrived?''

==Story Seed: Hunger of Desperation==

''The covenant finds that even in its concealed and masked state, refugees continue to enter their “former”grounds, looking for anything to scavenge. How do they deal with these intruders? Christian ideology would demand they accept them into the covenant and try to help them survive. The truth of the available supplies might dictate that another mouth simply reduces the amount for everyone else, and hastens eventual starvation. At what point do they abandon their fellow man?''

|}
''dane sources know of the Muspelli and their depredations. At that point, the Order of Hermes has little trouble learning who is responsible, but they don’t know where to find the culprits. This means the magi must hunt down both the Aspects and the Muspelli and defeat them. With Fimbulwinter complete, this is easier said than done, as the Muspelli roam the land seeking to free Loki. The magi must acquire Arcane Connections to the Muspelli, and either scry their locations or strike at them with spells through those connections. The roles are now reversed; the magi fight an asymmetric conflict, with fewer resources, a hostile natural environment and a more organized Muspelli resis''
''tance. Even with magic, Mythic Europe is a large place, and magi require some kind of direction to find the trail of the Muspelli and engage them. Consider pursing the “Twilight of the Gods” saga presented in this book as one option for this scenario.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Muspelli Details==

''The following blocks provide the statistics for some of the Muspelli in both human and etin-mod form, complemented by those found in Rival Magic (pages 87 and 88). Remember, Muspelli do not suffer General Flaws in etin-mod. These statistics may require some minor modifications for languages or Area Lore specialties, depending on where you set the saga.''

|}

==Leif Ormsbrodir: Young Muspelli of Nidhogg==

''Characteristics: Int 0 Per +1 Pre 0, Com –1, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +2 Age: 31 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Giant Blood, Greater Immunity (Exposure); Improved Characteristics, Tough, Warrior; Curse of Venus, Mute, Overconfident; Susceptibility to Infernal Power, Weakness (Women), Visions Personality Traits: Overconfident +3, Contemplative +2 Combat: Axe & Round Shield: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +8 Bludgeon: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +4 Dodge: Init +2, Attack N/A, Defense +6, Damage N/A Fist: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +2 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 2 (Coasts), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 2 (searching), Brawl 4 (Fist), Carouse 1 (power drinking), Concentration 2 (spell concentration), East Norse''
''5 (storytelling), Finesse 2 (accuracy), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), Guile 2 (lying about motives), Hunt 2 (covering tracks), Jotun 2 (deference), Magic Lore 1 (heipt), Organization Lore: Muspelli 4 (initiation), Single Weapon 4 (axe), Penetration 2 (Winter’s Breath), Stealth 3 (hiding within forests), Survival 2 (arctic), Swim 2 (underwater) Supernatural Abilities: Animal Ken 6 (orcas), Shapeshifter 10 (birds), Sjonhverfing 6 (mists), Summon Animals 6 (sharks), Wildfire 5 (pyrotechnic tricks), Winter’s Breath 10 (snow); Equipment: axe, full leather armor, gandur of a serpent tooth (+1 to his Power Modifier), round shield Sample Utiseta Known: Scion of Jorgmandir. Once per day, Leif can take the form of a lindwurm as detailed on Realms of Power: Magic, page 78. (Shapeshifter 27, +5 size, +7 Penetration) This form is resisted by the Parma, as it is an ongoing utiseta. Encumbrance: 6 (1, this does not impact combat) Appearance: An extremely tall and broad young man with a quiet, oppressive demeanor emphasized by his enormous build. Leif has dark black hair and deep brown eyes. His tongue is split down the middle with a terrible purple scar, back into his throat. He wears pitted and marked leather armor and a heavy walrus-hide cloak. Two carved walrus tusks are tucked in''
''his wide belt.''
''Leif attacks ships traveling across the Baltic and North Sea. Arriving under the cover of a Sjonhverfing mist in the form of a dragon, he savages the crew, often damaging the hull before tearing off the dragon figurehead. He leaves the wounded and dying to the mercies of the cold sea as the vessel founders. His cavern lair has a Magic aura of 3, and is only accessible via a submerged tunnel. Over 30 figureheads stare down at the ritual space where Leif lives, each one a longship sent beneath the waves. Leif has an intrinsic +3 power modifier (+1 for Mute, +1 for having 5 in another of Nidhogg’s powers, +1 for possessing a gandur of his patron). For his best Abilities, Shapeshifter and Winter’s Breath, he can expect casting totals of 33+aura+stress die. If given the opportunity, he stores an utiseta to turn a specific target into a fish in his gandur. (Fool out of Water; Shapeshifter Ease Factor 24; R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind; Target is transformed into a large bass (size -2); (BL 12 + 2 Voice +2 Sun))''
''Leif Ormsbrodir: Young Muspelli of Nidhogg, Etin-mod''
''Characteristics: Int 0 Per +1 Pre 0, Com –1, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +3 Age: 31 Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Magnus Norn: Median Muspelli of Urdur==

''Characteristics: Int +5 Per +1 Pre +2, Com +1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 43 (43) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0 Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Mythic Blood of Urdur; Great Intelligence x2, Improved Characteristics x2, Puissant Guile, Puissant Muspelli Lore*, Warrior, Well-Traveled; Low Self-Esteem, Pagan, Waster of Vis; Cyclic Magic (negative, Spring), Disfigured (Badly healed leg), Susceptibility to Divine Power, Weakness (Alcohol); *Mythic Blood virtue Personality Traits: Insecure +6, Skulking +3, Vindictive +2 Combat: Axe: Init 0, Attack +7, Defense +2, Damage +7 Longbow: Init –3, Attack +7, Defense +2, Damage +9 Dodge: Init –1, Attack N/A, Defense +3,''
''Damage N/A Fist: Init –1, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +1 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 3 (Coasts), Awareness 3 (eavesdroppers), Bow 2 (longbow), Brawl 4 (Fist), Charm 4 (first impressions), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Craft: Brew 4 (Mead), East Norse 5 (conversation), Finesse 4 (lightning), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), Low German 4 (conversation), Guile 4+2 (putting listener at ease), Hunt 2 (covering tracks), Intrigue 3 (manipulating), Jotun 2 (deference), Magic Lore 1 (heipt), Organization Lore: Muspelli 3+2 (initiation), Penetration 2 (Entrancement), Single Weapon 2 (axe) Supernatural Abilities: Entrancement 9 (Men), Premonitions 6 (foes), Sjonh''
''verfing 10 (mists), Spadomir 6 (deaths), Storm’s Eye 12 (lightning), Threads of Fate 10 (battle); Powers: Look of Willing Assistance: CrMe 15 (R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind; neither speaking nor gesture required): This effect creates a sensation in the target to want to help Magnus with anything he has suggested. Equipment: axe, partial chain mail, silver sickle gandur Sample Utiseta Known: (+3 to Power Modifier) Theft of Thor’s Thunder. Magnus can summon a light rain and thunderstorm in the range of his voice, and can then, once a round for four rounds, direct a bolt of lightning at targets he can see. Hitting a Size 0 target requires a Dexterity + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Each bolt does +30 damage if it hits. (Storm’s Eye 9, + 6 Voice, +6 for thunder and lightning.) The lightning is also resisted by Magic Resistance, as it is the product of a magically created storm.''

==Leif Ormsbrodir: Young Muspelli of Nidhogg (Cont’d)==

''Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Giant Blood, Greater Immunity (Exposure & Sleep), Greater Magical Defenses; Improved Characteristics, Tough, Warrior; Curse of Venus, Overconfident; Susceptibility to Infernal Power, Weakness (Women), Visions Qualities: Aquatic, Claws, Fins, Good Jumper, Tireless, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Overconfident +3, Contemplative +2 Combat: Axe & Round Shield: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +10 Bludgeon: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +6 Claws: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +8 Dodge: Init +2, Attack N/A, Defense +6, Damage N/A Fist: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +4 Soak: +14''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 2 (Coasts), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 2 (searching), Brawl 4 (Fist), Carouse 1 (power drinking), Concentration 2 (spell concentration), East Norse 5 (storytelling), Finesse 2 (accuracy), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), Guile 2 (lying about motives), Hunt 2 (covering tracks), Jotun 2 (deference), Magic Lore 1 (heipt), Organization Lore: Muspelli 4 (initiation), Single Weapon 4 (axe), Penetration 2 (Winter’s Breath), Stealth 3 (hiding within forests), Survival 2 (arctic), Swim 2 (underwater) Supernatural Abilities: Animal Ken 6 (orcas), Shapeshifter 10 (birds), Sjonhverfing 6 (mists), Summon Animals 6 (sharks), Wildfire 5 (pyrotechnic''
''tricks), Winter’s Breath 10 (snow); Equipment: axe, full leather armor, gandur of a serpent’s tooth (+1 to his Power Modifier), round shield Utiseta Held in Gandur: Scion of Jorgmandir. Leif can take the form of a lindwurm as detailed on Realms of Power: Magic, page 78. (Shapeshifter 27, +5 size) This form is resisted by the Parma, as it is an ongoing utiseta. Encumbrance: 6 (0) Appearance: In etin-mod, Leif appears to be some form of man-like orca whale, with fins, teeth, claws, standing at a towering 12 feet tall. His thick claws are webbed, and he has fins across his forearms and the crest of his head. His wide mouth is full of small, sharp teeth, and his large eyes are black. Leif’s leathery hide is very similar to an orca’s coloration. He looks very much like the creature on page 85 of Rival Magic.''

|}

==Magnus Norn: Median Muspelli of Urdur (Cont’d)==

''Encumbrance: 7 (2, this does not impact combat) Appearance: Magnus is a man of strong build and magnetic looks, but has oily black hair and distinctive, dragging limp. He carries a hand axe in his belt, but maintains a very obsequious attitude. His piercing blue eyes seemingly disassemble and absorb everything around him, and Magnus never stops calculating the value and use of those around him.''
''Due to The Gift, Magnus was never well liked, even with the ability of his Mythic Blood to invoke a desire to offer assistance, and often defended himself from childhood tormentors. He managed to get himself apprenticed as a brewer and even went on a few pirate raids as a young man, though he never found glory. But in his seventeenth year, an accident climbing for a beehive left Magnus pinned beneath a dead tree, alone and without help. The Muspelli who had been watching him took advantage of this event and saved him, but only after Magnus swore to serve the Jotun. He was freed and left with the Jotun Urdur’s Aspect, forced to heal as the Aspect taught him; his leg never recovered, and he walks with a very visible limp, obviously disfigured. He claimed his gandur afterwards, from an old burial mound, leaving before the restless spirit there could catch him. In the following years, he has honed his powers, believing he is never as capable as when he is in his etin-mod, but still a reasonable manipulator of men. He looks for ways to guide the community, taking charge of men with Entrancement when he needs, offering advice and living apart from the bulk of the populace as the power behind the local lord, and the lord’s private apiarist. Magnus has an intrinsic +3 power modifier (+1 for Low-self esteem, +1 for having 5 in another of Urdur’s powers, +1 for possessing a gandur of the patron). For his best Ability, Storm’s Eye, he can expect casting totals of 39+aura+stress die. He''
''prefers to store Theft of Thor’s Thunder in his gandur, although he might increase the intensity of the storm.''

==Magnus Norn: Median Muspelli of Urdur, Etin-Mod==

''Characteristics: Int +5 Per +1 Pre +2, Com +1, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: +2 Age: 43 Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Giant Blood, Greater Magical Defenses, Immunity to Sleep, Mythic Blood; Great Intelligence x2, Improved Characteristics x2, Puissant Guile, Warrior, Well-Traveled; Pagan, Waster of Vis; Cyclic Magic (negative, Spring), Susceptibility to Divine Power; *Mythic Blood virtue Qualities: Teeth (beak), Claws, Spiny, Tireless, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Skulking +3, Vindictive +2 Combat: Axe: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +3, Damage +9 Beak: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +8 Claws: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +7 Dodge: Init 0, Attack N/A, Defense +4, Damage N/A Fist: Init 0, Attack +5, Defense +5, Damage +3 Soak: +15 (anyone inflicts damage on Magnus with a bite, claw, or fist, the attacker suffers +5 damage from his spines.) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–15), –5 (16–23), Incapacitated (24–31), Dead (32+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 3 (Coasts), Awareness 3 (eavesdroppers), Bow 2 (longbow), Brawl 4 (Fist), Charm 4 (first impressions), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Craft: Brew 4 (Mead), East Norse 5 (conversation), Finesse 4 (lightning), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), Low German 4 (conversation), Guile 4+2 (putting listener at ease), Hunt''
''2 (covering tracks), Intrigue 3 (manipulating), Jotun 2 (deference), Magic Lore 1 (heipt), Muspelli Lore 3 +2 (initiation), Penetration 2 (Entrancement), Single Weapon 2 (axe)''
''Supernatural Abilities: Entrancement 9 (Men), Premonitions 6 (foes), Sjonhverfing 10 (mists), Spadomir 6 (deaths), Storm’s Eye 12 (lightning), Threads of Fate 10 (battle); Powers: Look of Willing Assistance: CrMe 15 (R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind; neither speaking nor gesture required): This effect creates a sensation in the target to want to help Magnus with anything he has suggested. Equipment: axe, partial chain armor, silver sickle gandur Utiseta Held in Gandur: (+3 to Power Modifier) Theft of Thor’s Thunder. Magnus can summon a light rain and thunderstorm in the range of his voice, and can then, once a round for four rounds, direct a bolt of lightning at targets he can see. Hitting a Size 0 target requires a Dexterity + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Each bolt does +30 damage if it hits. (Storm’s Eye 9, + 6 Voice, +6 for thunder and lightning.) The lightning is resisted by Magic Resistance, as it is the product of a magically created storm. Encumbrance: 6 (0) Appearance: In etin-mod, Magnus appears as a cross between a raven, vulture and man, with winged arms ending in fierce claws, hunched over, but still standing an imposing 10 feet tall with red, blood-shot eyes. His head is bald and corpse grey, his mouth is a raven’s beak with a slight hook at the tip. His feathers are glossy black and tattered, but he has many heavy quills protruding all over his body. His feet are heavy grey talons with glossy black claws.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Gandar and Utiseta==

''Gandar are important to Muspelli, as they give a significant boost to their power. Most important, an utiseta effect can be stored in a gandur for later use, as described on page 91 of Rival Magic. This is the only way a Muspelli can cast powerful effects quickly, so most Muspelli make use of it. However, there are two important limits. First, a gandur can only store an effect for one year. If the target ceases to exist before the utiseta is used, it cannot be discharged, and is released uncontrollably, Warping the Muspelli, at the end of the year (Rival Magic, page 91). Second, the target of the effect must be specified at the time of casting, not when the utiseta is released. This means that utiseta affecting people are normally stored when the Muspelli intends to seek out that person. Utiseta that target the Muspelli himself, that create something by magic, or that affect an item the Muspelli can carry with him are much more flexible choices. The Penetration of an utiseta is calculated as shown on page 90 of Rival Magic. It differs every time, so you should roll it anew for each encounter. Note that the roll for the Casting Total is made at the end of the utiseta ritual, after the Muspelli has gathered the necessary energy. A failure on this roll means that nothing happens, and the energy gathered is safely dissipated, while a botch causes Warping as if the Muspelli had failed to gather any energy for the utiseta (Rival Magic, page 91), in addition to any other effects.''

|}

==Ingvar Suttungja: Experienced Muspelli of Fire==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +2, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik –2 Size: +1 Age: 68 (68) Decrepitude: 2 (7) Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Gentle Gift; Large, Mercenary Captain, Potent Sorcery (Wildfire), Puissant Craft, Tough, Unaffected by the Gift, Unaging; Ambitious, Deaf, Necessary Condition (must be touching the ground); Close Family Ties, Lost Love (dead wife), Hunchbacked, Missing Eye*, Social Handicap (facial scars); *For Initiation of etin-mod Tough Hide quality. Personality Traits: Ambitious +6, Dedicated +3, Patient +2 Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack N/A, Defense +1, Damage N/A Fist: Init –2, Attack +6, Defense +5, Damage +1 Longsword: Init 0, Attack +12, Defense +5, Damage +7 Shortbow: Init –3, Attack +8, Defense 0, Damage +7 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 4 (ports), Awareness 4 (spotting dangers on the sea), Bargain 3 (negotiating), Bow 2 (shortbow), Brawl 3 (fist), Carouse 3 (remaining conscious), Charm 3 (first impressions), Chirurgy 1 (sword wounds), Concentration 4 (spell maintenance), Craft: Steel 5+2 (swords), East Norse 5 (conversation), Finesse 3 (aiming), Folk Ken 3 (monitoring morale), Intrigue 3 (long-term plans), Jotun 2 (deference), Leadership 4 (mercenaries), Low German 4 (conversation), Magic Lore 2 (heipt), Organization Lore: Muspelli 5 (initiation), Penetration 4 (Storm’s Eye), Profession: Mercenary 3 (serving abroad), Single Weapon 4 (longsword) Supernatural Abilities: Shapeshifter 10 (bears), Sjonhverfing 7 (mists), Storm’s''
''Eye 10 (lightning), Valgaldrar 12 (Men), Wildfire 11+2 (foes), Winter’s Breath 10 (snow); Equipment: Longsword gandur, partial chain mail, round shield Sample Utiseta Known: (+3 to Power Modifier) Blast of Ymir’s Bellows. Ingvar can cause a torch or lantern to burn with whitehot intensity and leap from the source to a target within his voice range. This fire burns those it strikes for +15 damage. He may continue causing this hungry flame to leap between targets until he breaks concentration. (Wildfire 24 R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind; + 3 Conc, +3 very unusual movement.) Encumbrance: 7 (2, this does not impact combat) Appearance: Ingvar was a tall man, standing a full two hands over his raiding peers before accident and habit made him hungry for more power. Now, he is still a great giant with a deep, deep voice, who stoops to the height of most men, due to his crooked form. When not in his etin-mod, Ingvar looks like a broad, and strong man, despite the sooty stains on his rough clothes, his one, yellowing eye, his hunchbacked body, and his heavily creased face, framed in stringy white hair and a snowy goatee. If his age weighs upon him, Ingvar does not show it, but rather relishes dividing his time between his family, his forge, and the glorious opportunities of the battlefield.''
''With a Gentle Gift, Ingvar actually had a very normal life. He found a wife, sired three children, learned a craft, and took part in the occasional pirate raid for glory and treasure. Then, upon returning from a trip, heavy with plunder, he found his community sacked in a vengeful counterattack. While two of Ingvar’s sons survived, the love of his life, Ingvar’s young wife, and third son were killed, and Ingvar was heartbroken. Drawn by the smoke and Premonitions, a lone stranger approached Ingvar. This man promised him the power for revenge, to burn his foes, to conceal his raiders from the lookouts of the enemy, and to freeze his foes where they slept if he would''

==Ingvar Suttungja: Experienced Muspelli of Fire (Cont’d)==

''join as a Muspelli. Leaving his living sons in the capable hands of his surviving mother, he joined the stranger and served the Jotun, deep within the earth. Returning after six years, he arrived to find his mother dying. He tended and buried her and then took back up his forge at the edge of town, now deaf from the hammers within Surtur’s caves. Ingvar’s new-found skills allowed him to create vicious surprise attacks with Sjonhverfing or Winter’s Breath. He caused flames to leap across the air to choke an enemy in moments. He rampaged through their barricades as a lindworm. So long as the payment arrived on time and he was left to execute the objective, he has been successful for the last 30 years while still seeking out those responsible for his wife’s death. Local men flocked to his company of nocturnal raiders, who took the name “Black Dragons.” Over time, he came to feel that he should serve the Jotnar more directly and effectively, and that led him to discover the rituals that could bring about Fimbulwinter. Now, feeling that he might be instrumental in freeing the Jotnar from their long imprisonment, he is more engaged in life that he has been since his wife died. Ingvar often stores Blast of Ymir’s Bellows in his gandur. Because the target must be set at the time of casting, he carries a lantern, which he keeps burning from the preparation of the utiseta to its use, and specifies the flame in the lantern as the target. He can bring the flame back to the lantern and use it again if he has stored more than one casting of the utiseta in the gandur. This is risky, however, because if the flame goes out there is no way to discharge the utiseta, and Ingvar faces Warping, and an uncontrolled fire, after a year. Accordingly, Ingvar normally only stores one version of the effect.Ingvar also uses Scion of Jorgmandir and Theft of Thor’s Thunder, as both are well within his capability. Ingvar has an intrinsic +3 power modifier (+1 for Deaf, +1 for''
''having 5 in another of Surtur’s powers, +1 for possessing a gandur of the patron). For his best Ability, Wildfire, he can expect casting totals of 41+aura+stress die.''

==Ingvar Suttungja: Experienced Muspelli of Fire, Etin-Mod==

''Characteristics: Int 0 Per +1 Pre +2, Com -1, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik -3 Size: +3 Age: 68 Warping Score: 0 Gleipnir Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Muspelli; Gentle Gift, Greater Immunity (Sleep), Greater Magical Defenses; Large, Mercenary Captain, Potent Sorcery (Wildfire), Puissant Craft, Tough, Unaffected by the Gift, Unaging; Ambitious, Necessary Condition (must be touching the ground); Close Family Ties, Lost Love (dead wife) Qualities: Horns, Tireless, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Ambitious +6, Dedicated +3, Patient +2 Combat: Dodge: Init –3, Attack N/A, Defense 0, Damage N/A Fist: Init -3, Attack +6, Defense 0, Damage +4 Horns: Init –1, Attack +8, Defense +2, Damage +7 Longsword: Init –1, Attack +12, Defense +4, Damage +10 Shortbow: Init -4, Attack +6, Defense 0, Damage +10 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Area Lore: Baltic Sea 4 (ports), Awareness 4 (spotting dangers on the''
''sea), Bargain 3 (negotiating), Bow 2 (shortbow), Brawl 3 (fist), Carouse 3 (remaining conscious), Charm 3 (first impressions), Chirurgy 1 (sword wounds), Concentration 4 (spell maintenance), Craft: Steel 5+2 (swords), East Norse 5 (conversation), Finesse 3 (aiming), Folk Ken 3 (monitoring morale), Intrigue 3 (long-term plans), Jotun 2 (deference), Leadership 4 (mercenaries), Low German 4 (conversation), Magic Lore 2 (heipt), Organization Lore: Muspelli 5 (initiation), Penetration 4 (Storm’s Eye), Profession: Mercenary 3 (serving abroad), Single Weapon 4 (longsword) Supernatural Abilities: Shapeshifter 10 (bears), Sjonhverfing 7 (mists), Storm’s Eye 10 (lightning), Valgaldrar 12 (Men), Wildfire 11+2 (foes), Winter’s Breath 10 (snow); Equipment: Longsword gandur, partial chain mail, round shield Utiseta Prepared: Blast of Ymir’s Bellows. Ingvar can cause a torch or lantern to burn with white-hot intensity and leap from the source to a target within his voice range. This fire burns those it strikes for +15 damage. He may continue causing this hungry flame to leap between targets until he breaks concentration. (Wildfire 24, + 3 Conc, +3 very unusual movement.) Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Ingvar appears as an enormous, charcoal-skinned man with smoldering, spiraling ram’s horns and eyes glowing like cinders. His hair becomes a shaggy black mane of wiry black strands. He wears an apron of heavy chains, a mail shirt, and never walks without a bared sword. He gleefully leads his men into combat in this form, and they love him for it, thinking they are true heirs of Ragnarok.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
