
=Hermetic Culture=

''Unlike their northern neighbors, the magi of Provençal have lived easily until recently, generally remaining apart or hidden from settled mundane society in the southern wilderness and the bastions of the Pyrenees. The feudal society dominating the north exists here in a softer form, with emphasis placed more on paratge, the individual bonds and mutual responsibility between nobles, rather than the more hierarchical feudal culture of the north where it is harder for magi to hide from liege lord relationships. The Albigensian Crusade has now fragmented the structure and culture of the south while changing the entire mundane political landscape. Whether the Hermetic magi will retain their existing traditions or become more influenced by their more aggressive northern sodales, who ape feudalism even in Hermetic society (see The Lion & the Lily) remains to be seen. This book presents a Provençal Tribunal of just over a hundred magi. Not all the individual magi or apprentices in each covenant have been described, leaving room for player magi to have lived or been apprenticed in one of the existing covenants. Other covenants exist, one of which may belong to the player characters.''

==Founding a New Covenant==

''Compared to the hurdles set before magi in the Rhine or Normandy Tribunals, founding a Provençal covenant is straightforward and relatively unrestricted. A group of magi may meet, agree to work with each other toward a common goal, draw up a suitable charter detailing their oath of covenant, and together swear to the oath—the act of taking an oath together being the most important component. The only legal aspect of concern is the requirement demanding a Quaesitor notarizes the charter, which renders the''
''contents of the charter legally enforceable under the Peripheral Code, but some groups of magi delay this formality. The covenant’s creation does not need to be brought to the attention of the Tribunal for any form of formal approval, but it is considered good manners to notify the local Mercer House and send a representative to the next Tribunal meeting to announce the covenant’s formation. This makes establishing a new Hermetic settlement simple, but as a consequence of the relative lack of safeguards many promising covenants are short-lived and the Provençal landscape is littered with''

[|

==The Covenant Oath==

''One unusual aspect of the Provençal Tribunal is that covenant oaths are by the Peripheral Code enforceable by Tribunal rulings. This leads to many minor internal disputes which would in other Tribunals be resolved by certamen or by the covenant councils being brought to the attention of the whole Tribunal.''

|]
''a disproportionate number of failed and abandoned covenants. One notable local peculiarity is the looser definition of a covenant: some Provençal covenants are spread over multiple locations. Indeed, in some cases all the magi live separately and only meet in council when necessary. Castra Solis is one example, where the Praeco and her filia are members of the covenant although they live at a distance near Mimizan and in Poitiers respectively. Another covenant, the Coenobium, has multiple sites scattered throughout the east of the Tribunal.''

==Residency==

''In order to be considered a resident of the Tribunal, magi must have attended one of the last three Tribunals, or be granted the status by a vote at their first Tribunal. Magi Gauntleted in the Tribunal are automatically considered residents until three Tribunals have passed with them absent from the Tribunal meeting. If immigrants establish a covenant between Tribunals, the magi must either register with both the Redcaps and Praeco or with their closest neighbor; if they want to register with a neighbor, a Redcap leads them if they do not know the closest neighbor’s site. Magi who have registered as resident in the Tribunal are considered residents until they claim residency in another Tribunal or attend and vote at another Tribunal’s gathering. Magi claiming residency in a different Tribunal must register their departure from Provençal with either the Provençal Redcaps''
''or the Praeco prior to voting in another Tribunal’s gathering, or they are found in violation of the Peripheral Code.''

==The Covenants of the Provençal Tribunal==

''The Provençal Tribunal has three main power centers. In the west, the Mercurian magi of Aedes Mercurii and the Mithraian magi of Castra Solis dispute the true legacy of Val Negra and House Flambeau. In the east, the chapterhouses that compose the multi-site Coenobium attempt to prevent new covenants from forming. Nevertheless, the Tribunal has many covenants, and some, like Tolosa Paratge and Bellaquin, are of considerable age and prestige. The Crusade, and disagreements over what the Order’s response to it should be, have led to a deeply divided Tribunal. Each of the more influential covenants in the Tribunal is briefly summarized below, along with any strong opinions that other covenants hold about them, and how their members are likely to react to new covenants established in the region.''
''Aedes Mercurii (18 Votes)''
''This collection of pagan magi split off''
''from Val-Negra at the start of the Schism War, and is organized around a great temple to Mercury hidden deep in the Pyrenees (see Chapter 6: Aedes Mercurii). Contentious and rebellious, they loathe Castra Solis, the other great Flambeau stronghold in the Tribunal. The covenant aggressively opposes the establishment of new covenants in the region, unless newcomers join a political alliance with Aedes Mercurii. However, the covenant members are not unified on any topic but blocking Castra Solis, so new covenants can expect inconsistent, even contradictory responses. Outside the Pyrenees, they resent Castra Solis’s political dominance and hate the covenants which choose to work with the domus magna. Aedes Mercurii is really the difficult stepchild of the Tribunal; many consider them to be dangerous fanatics.''
''Ara Maxima Nova: Knowing the covenant’s history and legacy, they wonder what secrets the magi of Aedes Mercurii may hide, or not even realize exist within their walls. To that extent, they are willing discuss issues with the covenant and occasionally assist them. Bellaquin: The magi here consider Aedes Mercurii’s mountain redoubt a life of crude isolation, bereft of the finer aspects of civilization. Certainly, they should carry on the fine traditions they believe they maintain, but Aedes Mercurii need not be so aggressive about it. Castra Solis: Their public attitude toward Aedes Mercurii regards the Mercurians as somewhat misguided mystics confused about the legacy of House Flambeau. In private, they consider Aedes Mercurii an unfortunate liability, too large to be directly confronted, but one capable of sabotaging itself through internal bickering. Coenobium: They believe Aedes Mercurii wastes a great deal of resources in what amounts to a meaningless legacy dispute—a contest with no prize worth winning. They consider their approach to the covenant on an issue-by-issue basis, with a selfish eye toward the consequences: does the Mercurians’ proposal benefit the Coenobium? The position would require delicate negotiation, if the covenant weren’t so large''

[|

==A Tribunal for Every Magus?==

''This book details a Tribunal where it is assumed the default Hermetic culture as presented in Ars Magica Fifth Edition is the norm. Thus, magi live in loose covenants of allied individuals, generally far removed from mundane society, and communicate with each other through a loose Redcap network. Tribunal meetings occur every seven years and consist of a gathering of representatives from each covenant, overseen by the oldest magus in the Tribunal, the Praeco, and run by the Chief Quaesitor, elected at''
''the close of each gathering. Vis is available to those willing to harvest or fight for it, but not so abundant as to be without value, nor scarce enough to require communal rationing or open conflict over its distribution. Relationships with mundane nobility and the Church exist but are not actively encouraged—recent developments have forced magi to take a stance on issues long thought beneath their notice. Finally, the Code is neither strictly enforced nor observed more in the breach.''

|]
''and disorganized. Ostal des Exiles: The House of Exiles believes Aedes Mercurii could be a potent force against the Crusaders, and yet feel contempt toward them for their fear of discovery. Nothing good comes without risk, and the Mercurians seem unwilling to take risks for something the Exiles would die for. Stella Durus: Renaud would be interested in exploring the mysticism he sees here, but feels this might betray the relationship he has with Castra Solis, and so he counsels against supporting Aedes Mercurii on critical issues. Tolosa Paratge: The magi of Tolosa Paratge think Aedes Mercurii expends great effort on something of truly minor significance. Both sides wish the Mercurians would drop their petty feud regarding ‘who is the true heir to Val Negra’ and become their own covenant.''
''Ara Maxima Nova (4 Votes)''
''This primarily Merinita-based covenant is focused on magic of vineyards and roads in the Perpignan region of Narbonnais (see Chapter 7), and the Dionysian mysteries of its founder Luc’s Mystery cult. If the players establish a covenant with an emphasis on Faerie or Seeker investigations, then Ara Maxima Nova works to discredit, harass, or chase away magi with overlapping interests—unless those magi seem willing to join and help the cult. Otherwise, the covenant remains neutral toward new magi, as long as the new covenant doesn’t prevent or interfere with the exploration or investigation of the Via Domitia and its route.''
''Aedes Mercurii: They sympathize regarding how a cult might be misunderstood, though they do not fully understand the ambitions of the covenant. Castra Solis: They suspect the Merinita magi may be up to something, but don’t believe them dangerous and mostly ignore them. Should the more religious members learn of Luc’s cult, they might begin a covert campaign against the mystagogue’s resources. Coenobium: They find Ara Maxima Nova insular and rude, and especially despise their habit of regularly challenging''
''magi on the Via Domitia to certamen when friendly conversation might suffice. This attitude causes some friction, and they are predisposed to vote against suggestions from Ara Maxima Nova. Ostal des Exiles: They believe the Merinitas’ attitudes are cowardly, and hope they can be made more active participants in local defense. Stella Durus: A close neighbor, they find the Merinita standoffish, but decent enough. In truth, they simply haven’t interacted with the covenant enough to form an opinion.''
''Bellaquin (5 Votes)''
''A Summer covenant which transitioned to Autumn by moving its location from the war-torn county of Toulouse to the sheltering Pyrenees (see Chapter 6: Bellaquin), Bellaquin delights in mundane affairs and remains strongly driven by the resident Jerbiton magi. Regarding new covenants, Bellaquin believes “the more, the merrier.” With untaxed resources, they could easily double the membership of their covenant. To them, more magi in the region only increases its influence, perhaps contributing to the formation of a new Catalan Tribunal.''
''Aedes Mercurii: They consider Bellaquin to be kindred spirits—magi forced to pick up their homes, move, and start again. They support the Andorrans to generate sympathy for themselves. Ara Maxima Nova: The magi of Perpignan interact little with Bellaquin, but send agents to the Andorrans’ fairs. Castra Solis: They find the magi’s habit of indulging in mundane fealty and commerce tantamount to inviting further trouble with local lords, but feel the isolated nature of the Andorran countryside makes this an acceptable risk. They support Bellaquin when possible and send representatives to gather intelligence at its fairs. Coenobium: They appreciate the economic progress the Andorrans have achieved and hope to learn from both the covenant’s success and previous failure. Ostal des Exiles: The Faidits try to stay on good terms with Bellaquin for economic reasons, but might attempt to strength''
''en those ties should they realize the potential for intelligence gathering presented by the markets. Stella Durus: Jean Marie sends his paradoxographia to Bellaquin, and corresponds with the magi here on a regular basis regarding gossip, distant affairs, and concepts of Courtly Love. While the two covenants are distant geographically, they are fairly close politically. Tolosa Paratge: Before the division, the covenant found Bellaquin eccentric but tolerable. Now, with the threat of destruction hanging over their heads, they find Bellaquin’s sense of entitlement infuriating.''
''Castra Solis (17 Votes, plus Praeco & Presiding Quaesitor)''
''The domus magna of House Flambeau, Castra Solis is unquestionably one of the most influential covenants in the region. Situated in Gascony (see Chapter 5: Castra Solis), it is the stronghold of every sort of military magus the House produces, from soldierly Mithraians to knightly Milites. Yet it is still very northern in its outlook, and owes most of its overall direction to its primus, Garus. The covenant strongly advocates for the Crusades and the Church, with very Christian attitudes, and very political aims. New magi could find allies or enemies in Castra Solis, depending on how well their aims align. Typically very generous to those working with them, the magi strongly distrust Tytali, denying assistance to a new covenant with a large Tytalan presence.''
''Aedes Mercurii: The Mercurians hate and distrust Castra Solis, considering them bitter rivals. They oppose the covenant’s activities in Tribunal whenever possible, and coordinate opposition via third parties in exchange for political support when practical. Ara Maxima Nova: The magi of this fledgling cult want to avoid the eye of the Crusaders and so they tend to give Castra Solis no reason to look very closely. They either follow Castra Solis’ lead regarding most issues or abstain from voting. Bellaquin: They enjoy the attention the Flambeau pay to their gatherings and''
''like to consider Castra Solis staunch allies. They don’t see that they need Castra Solis more than the Flambeau need them. Coenobium: They actively support Castra Solis, which leads the two covenants to feel that as long as they stay allied, little can oppose them politically. However, they also realize the need for quorum, and know if they isolate the smaller covenants by always working with the domus magna, the Tribunal could descend into a situation where it is impossible to form a quorate Tribunal meeting. Ostal des Exiles: They see Castra Solis as the problem, rather than the solution. The Flambeau have been too supportive of the crusaders and this has done serious damage to the Hermetic community in Provence. If it were possible to show Castra Solis how misguided the Exiles believe them to be, and have the revelation make an impact, the magi would pursue it wholeheartedly. Stella Durus: Without a reason to oppose Castra Solis, Stella Durus historically supports the actions of Renaud’s domus magna. They can often be swayed to pass measures offered by the covenant and only act against it if they feel that they really must. Tolosa Paratge: The Black faction believes Castra Solis would come to its aid if Cyprian called, and rightly so. This affects the White faction’s view, and they believe Castra Solis to be too close to their mundane allies.''
''Coenobium (Approximately 20 Votes)''
''The Coenobium is a sprawling collection of chapter houses settled across the County of Provence (see Chapter 8: Arelat). They banded together under one covenant charter about two hundred years ago, and reside in the only part of the Provençal Tribunal to have remained within its borders since its establishment. The covenant is extremely political, populated mostly by cooperative magi of House Jerbiton and the Redcaps of the Tribunal’s Mercer House. They take a dim view of magi attempting to establish a new covenant in their shadow, which makes the''
''process very difficult. The nearly two dozen members coordinate an enormous amount of magical and mundane resources to sabotage prospective rivals, unless those magi join as a chapterhouse. As a result, no new covenants have flourished in southern Provence for over a century. However, the Coenobium hasn’t yet expanded its network beyond Arelat, and believes allied chapterhouses in the rest of the Tribunal would be very useful. The Coenobium’s open offer to assist petitioners seeking aid is common knowledge, but such help comes with the implication of future annexation.''
''Aedes Mercurii: They cannot stand the tightly-bound relationship shared by the Coenobium and Castra Solis, and feel jilted that the covenant chose the upstarts over the true legacy of Val Negra. They discredit Castra Solis whenever possible and hope to eventually convince the Coenobium to shift alliances. Ophilio of Mercere seems to dislike the Chief Redcap especially, but is obsequiously considerate to the other Merceres, for whom he crafts Longevity Rituals and other enchanted devices. Ara Maxima Nova: Luc views the Coenobium as a great bully which must be defied. He makes it a personal mission to subtly undermine their efforts whenever possible, but doesn’t wish to draw too much attention to his efforts. Bellaquin: They see an enormous market for the taking, and court the Coenobium whenever possible. Castra Solis: They support the Coenobium, believing the strong central organization and management serves as an effective structure in the otherwise mundanely chaotic nature of the Tribunal. They understand they will not agree on all issues, but when the greater good demands, they know they must stand beside them. Ostal des Exiles: So much potential, if only they weren’t so self-involved. The Coenobium is too big to truly shift its attitudes, at least not without some sort of drastic action taken by the Crusaders against them. Stella Durus: So long as they do not interfere with the covenant members’ individual projects, the magi of Narbonne''
''are willing to allow the Coenobium to take the leadership role for as long as they like. Tolosa Paratge: Both factions feel if they could just get the Coenobium to side with their cause, they would have the clout necessary to bring the other faction to the negotiating table rather than to the battlefield.''
''Ostal des Exiles (The House of Exiles) (6 Votes)''
''The Faidits are made up of refugees from other covenants around Toulouse (see Chapter 4: The Toulousain) which failed or were abandoned because of the Crusade. This odd assortment of magi welcomes any new Spring covenant as allies, working hard to recruit new Tribunal members into their defense of Toulouse from the Northerners. Open-minded, they consider what every potential covenant might be able to contribute and how other allies could repay that assistance.''
''Aedes Mercurii: They feel the House of Exiles brings unwanted crusader attention to the region, and that a policy of quiet concealment is best. The Order should stick to Order business and worry less about the mundane. Ara Maxima Nova: The Merinita cult’s attitude is similar to Aedes Mercurii, but a more immediate threat to their covenant could quickly reverse their opinion. Luc is ultimately concerned with the survival of his cult and its goals and so would easily side with the Faidits if threatened by crusaders. Bellaquin: The mostly Jerbiton Bellaquin finds a romantic quality to the House of Exiles and their struggles in the south of the Tribunal, but they cannot readily identify any real reason to support these magi. Castra Solis: They respect the fighting spirit of the Exiles, and admire their willingness to fight the good fight, but believe their mission to be misguided. The Flambeau would prefer see the Faidits incorporated into local, less militant covenants where their experience might better protect the Tribunal. Coenobium: They view the Exiles as a re''
''source needing restraint. The Faidits could draw too much undue attention to the Order within Provence. The optimal solution might involve tempering the Exiles’ zeal, or bringing them under the direction of the Coenobium— perhaps with a promise to aid them in their goal. Stella Durus: While they understand the Exiles’ desire to protect the area, they feel that Stella Durus has avoided notice so far and everything has been fine. Surely there’s no need to keep worrying. The danger has passed, hasn’t it? Tolosa Paratge: Either faction believes the Exiles could be a resource to help their cause, if only they can find something to attract the covenant’s support.''
''Stella Durus (5 Votes)''
''This covenant is a small, cosmopolitan group of mixed Houses (including a Tytalan magus, Ducaru, of whom most of the Tribunal is very aware) on the outskirts of Narbonne (see Chapter 7: Stella Durus). They are generally too preoccupied with their own projects to interfere with those of others. So long as a new covenant does not impinge upon their resources and isn’t established north of the Pyrenees or south of the Counties of Albi, Béziers, or Toulouse, the magi of this covenant remain neutral. They are hostile to those established within that zone, organizing to harass and bully the new covenant for at least one season a year.''
''Aedes Mercurii: They find the covenant’s non-Flambeau members to be pleasant enough, but don’t like their willingness to follow Renaud’s lead on matters involving Castra Solis. They are considering the possibility of infiltrating its membership or finding some way to force Renaud to leave. Ara Maxima Nova: Stella Durus understands and honors the cult’s tacit claim to the Via Domitia, and so the two covenants behave like cordial but uninvolved neighbors. Bellaquin: They find Jean Marie to be a very entertaining fellow and greatly enjoy his paradoxographia. This encourages mutual support between the two cov''
''enants on less crucial matters. Castra Solis: They find Renaud to be a good and decent magus, and believe he would not join a covenant of poor quality. As such, Castra Solis often supports Stella Durus and politely requests their political support when necessary. Coenobium: They appreciate Jean Marie’s management of the covenant, and have a great deal of sympathy for the magi there. They are inclined to support Stella Durus because they believe it might willingly join their covenant as a chapterhouse if the circumstances were right. Ostal de Exiles: The Exiles view Stella Durus as potential resource and see Renaud as a veteran who could greatly aid their cause. They work to court the covenant, encouraging them to find a more regionally focused attitude, and one slightly less aligned with Castra Solis. Tolosa Paratge: Through Cyprian’s relationship with Renaud, these two covenants had begun developing closer ties. Should the conflict in Toulouse escalate, the Black faction would likely ask Stella Durus to join it. The White faction recognizes this, and might attempt to leverage Mariola’s burgeoning relationship with Jean Marie to either keep the covenant neutral, or join their side.''
''Tolosa Paratge (9 Votes divided)''
''Noble, cultured, highly structured, and at war with itself, Tolosa Paratge is a multi-House covenant hidden in a magical regio beside the great city of Toulouse (see Chapter 4: Toulouse: Tolosa Paratge). The covenant is split over the issue of Cathar heretics within the covenant, forming two factions, White (expel the heretics) and Black (protect them against the Crusade). How the magi respond to newcomers depends on the side with which the characters align themselves. If a new covenant simply ignores them, the factions continue with their struggle, unperturbed. If the characters become involved and support the wrong side, however, they might easily find themselves the target of a Wizard’s War. General opinion within the Tribunal''
''holds that Tolosa Paratge is self-destructing. From a sense of decorum, the other covenants have tacitly agreed to let them resolve their own issues and see who, or what, emerges from the aftermath. Certainly individual magi of various covenants have personal opinions, and may act on these beliefs indirectly, but no one currently intends to act openly. Renaud of Stella Durus has concern for his pater, and the magi of the Coenobium always admired Tolosa Paratge’s style, but for now, the general attitude is to wait and watch.''

==Other Magi of Provence==

''A few other Hermetic groups and smaller covenants exist but seek to hide from the politics of the region.''
''Fraxinetum Redux (3 votes, unused)''
''Fraxinetum, a group of magi in Arelat (see Chapter 8: Arelat: Fraxinetum), have never revealed themselves to the Tribunal. Currently unknown to the Tribunal at large, they won’t oppose new covenants unless magi establish another maritime stronghold or occupy an island located off the southern coast.''
''Miniata Sophia (4 votes)''
''A subterranean reflection of the Cave of Twisting Shadows, this Criamon clutch was established only recently, in the last 40 years. Focused on the nearby town, they teach and serve while seeking enlightenment. While they participate in Tribunal, they eschew politics and generally have no opinion on the activities of other magi, and few bother about them.''
''Tres’ Band (3 votes, unused)''
''The infamous Rusticani magus Tres Ex Miscellanea (see Chapter 1: History) and his followers have gone to ground in the forests near Bazas in Gascony (see Chapter 5: Tres), living in what is essentially a roving covenant. They are generally op''

[|

==New Mercurian Rituals==

''Set the Stones of the Via''
''Greater non-Hermetic Ritual, ReTe(Cr) R: Spec, D: Spec, T: Group Ease Factor: 36 This powerful Mercurian ritual binds together a set of specially consecrated milliaria magica (Latin: “magic milestones”) and one or more special smaller focus stones known as lapides mercurii. A separate milliarium magicum is required for every 10 Roman miles in length — the length of the Neo-Mercurian Road Magic Target: Road Network (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 116). All the stones to be enchanted and used in the via must be present at the casting of the spell. When linked together, the milliaria magica form an interconnected series of related Arcane Connections, and when placed along a route, they bind the path into a new Via Mercuria, a mystical road treated as a single entity for the purposes of targeting and other magical effects. The unified path traverses bridges and even fords, unlike the Neo-Mercurian Road Magic Range: Road Network (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 116), and ignores Size calculation when treated as a target, remaining equivalent to the same level as Boundary for the purposes of spell level calculation. The lapides mercurii can be later installed within a building or similar structure, such as a Temple of Mercury, located within 1 Roman mile of the mystical path outlined by the milestones, linking it to the via. This spell is believed to be one of the 37 great rituals codified at the Temple of Pompeii by Plentarch but lost to the later Mercurian magi upon the Cult’s collapse. Through these vast mystical networks, the few Priests of Mercury gathered in distant temples connected together by Roman roads, and channeled powerful magical forces to aid the Roman military in remote parts of the Empire. Due to the extensive resources and centralized power required to construct a Roman road and then enchant the milliaria, the magic was quickly lost in the fragmented years following the fall of Rome, as the Cult rapidly splintered into mutually hostile traditions. Aedes Mercurii possesses casting''
''notes and details of this ritual kept safely and reverently in their templum, and a copy of the full ritual may exist within the Library of Fenicil, deep within Magvillus. It is also believed Priamitus, one of the sons of Mercere and the founder of the Hermetic Cult of Mercury, may have left the original scroll from which the ritual was taken hidden somewhere inside the former covenant of Val Negra. A text containing this exceptionally rare Mercurian ritual acts as a source of Insight for the purposes of integrating True Mercurian Road Magic into Hermetic theory, and adds six to the Intelligence stress roll required (Ancient Magic, page 8). Every point the researcher has in the Arcane Ability associated with this ritual above 4 grants +1 to the Insight roll, to a maximum of +3. (Special spell) Design Note: Rules for similar nonHermetic rituals are detailed in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 76–77. In short, this ritual is learned as a unique Arcane Ability, takes a whole season to enact, and requires at least 36 pawns of vis and 36 Mythic pounds of silver worth of expensive materials such as herbs for fumigation and inks for the inscription of pagan symbols within a magical circle. Magi with the Mercurian Magic Virtue require only half the amount of vis and special materials, but all magi participating must have the Virtue for the benefit to apply. The Hermetic Architecture Mystery ritual Bind the Mystical Structure (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 98), may be a non-Hermetic fragment descended from this Mercurian ritual used to bind the milliaria magica into a via mercuria.''
''Link the Rent Path''
''Lesser non-Hermetic Ritual, ReTe(Cr) R: Spec, D: Spec, T: Group Ease Factor: 18 This lesser Mercurian ritual is used to connect separate viae mercuriae created using the Mercurian Ritual Set the Stones of the Via, or existing networks of such roads, to each other to form a larger network. It is also used to firmly connect a new lapis mercurius to an existing network (for instance''
''one to be placed in a newly built Temple of Mercury) or to replace a single damaged or stolen milliarum magicum on a broken via. It cannot create new viae, nor can it repair magical roads that have more than one milliarum magicum missing. A copy of this ritual is stored in the templum of Aedes Mercurii, although it has not been studied for several centuries; the old Roman roads of Mythic Europe have long fallen into great disrepair and their milliaria magica magically “desecrated” with crosses, or removed for use as building materials. Presumably other copies can be found at Durenmar and in Fenicil’s Library at Magvillus. Any text containing this seemingly useless Mercurian ritual acts as a source of Insight for the purposes of integrating True Mercurian Road Magic into Hermetic theory and adds three to the Intelligence stress roll required (see Ancient Magic, page 8). Every point the researcher has in the Arcane Ability associated with this ritual above 4 grants +1 to the Insight roll, to a maximum of +3. In the years following the end of the Schism War, a Mercurian priest of Janus named Petrarchus of Guernicus who lived at Aedes Mercurii reputedly attempted to organize a magical connecting of the great Way of St. James in Gascony to the Via Domitia in Narbonnais using a similar ritual, intending thus to create a massive road network would cover most of France, Iberia, and Italy. Unfortunately, Hermetic history and legend states his project failed because he failed to organize the various magi and Redcaps of his divisive covenant and the somewhat stereotypically rebellious region. (Special spell) Design Note: Rules for non-Hermetic rituals are detailed in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 76–77. In short, this ritual is learned as a unique Arcane Ability, takes three hours to cast, and requires 18 pawns of vis and 18 Mythic pounds of silver worth of expensive materials such as herbs for fumigation and inks for the inscription of pagan symbols within a magical circle. Magi with the Mercurian Magic Virtue require only half the amount of vis and special materials, but all magi participating must have the Virtue for the benefit to apply.''

|]
''posed to anything the Order of Hermes does, and do not attend Tribunal. They remain initially aloof to newly established covenants, with their attitude shifting from indifference to hatred. This change occurs over many seasons, and depends on how the magi treat the mundane populations surrounding their base. To those magi who seek to establish themselves as a ruling class, Tres’ band responds aggressively, approaching the covenant with the intention of dissuading them. They would hate to have to teach the lesson of Mistridge again, but have no qualms about doing so. The Rusticani are an Ex Miscellanea tradition detailed in Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 130–133.''

==Cults & Factions of Provence==

''Mystery Cults are extremely important in the politics of the Provençal Tribunal. From the Mystery Houses, there are Bjornaer magi within the Coenobium (Chapter 8: Arelat), a clutch of Criamon magi and many Verditii magi in Narbonnais (Chapter 7), another Verditius magus in Toulouse (Chapter 4), and two powerful Merinita with their own variations on their House’s secrets: the Praeco Dama and Luc of the Perpignan. There is also a renegade tradition forced from House Criamon and accepted in to House Ex Miscellanea, the Gorgiastic Cathars. These groups’ ambitions transcend covenants, and are part of the wider Hermetic Culture.''

==The Legion of Mithras==

''Most of the magi at Castra Solis staunchly support the Legion of Mithras (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 118–122) and it is known the covenant is one of their bases of power. Many high-ranking initiates within the Order think the rumored Great Temple lies somewhere in France, perhaps even the very Mithraic temple Castra Solis was built to protect (see Chapter 5: Gascony: Castra Solis). However, the Legion existed long before the construction of the now-famous covenant, so perhaps not. The Mithraians in House Flambeau are in the main Christian (See Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 16–19 for a description of the Mithraic faction). A few may actually worship the ancient pagan deity, but they''

[|

==New Mercurian Rituals cont’d==

''Hermetic Integration of the Via Mercuria''
''Remaining accounts of the magical practices of the Mercurian priests are sketchy and only veiled accounts of the effects of their rituals can be inferred from the historical record. The largest collection of texts detailing the origins of the Order of Hermes and its precursor, the Cult of Mercury, are securely stored in the great library of Fenicil in the vaults of Magvillus, and access is restricted for all but the inner circle of Quaesitores. Seekers investigating the lost secrets of Roman Road Magic may petition the Quaesitors for a chance to study the Mercurian archives in the hope of gleaning a text capable of granting an Insight, but they are likely to be asked to perform a great service in return, even if they are members of House Guernicus. One source of Insight is detailed here — discovery of the existence of the Link the Rent Path minor ritual may lead to the conclusion there must exist a greater Mercurian ritual capable of creating a new magical Roman road, and one of the surviving texts on early Mercurian lore may briefly mention a ritual, named Set the Stones of the Via, strongly meriting further investigation. Hermetic investigation of ancient Mercurian relics such as milliaria magica, lapides mercurii or even an intact Via Mer''
''curia from one of the major roads in the region may provide other sources of Insight into the secrets of True Mercurian Road Magic. Some Hermetic historians believe there was once a lapis mercurius in a Mercurian temple in the city of Saint Jean Piedde-Port in the Pyrenees, now lost.''
''New Range: Via Mercuria A magus may cast spells reaching anyone or anything on a road or path connected to him by an unbroken network of via mercuria consisting of a series of milliaria magica or lapides mercurii, provided he can sense the target somehow. Unlike the Neo-Mercurian Road Magic Range: Road Network (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 116), bridges and fords do not break a via mercuria. The roads still terminate in yards and such unless the building contains a linked lapis mercurius. For purposes of spell level calculation, Via Mercuria is the same level as Arcane Connection, and requires Ritual magic.''
''New Duration: Via Mercuria The spell continues for as long as the character journeys along a via mercuria or network. The travel must be by natural means available to the caster or target — usually by foot, horseback or in a drawn''
''wagon. A Bjornaer with a heartbeast capable of flight can travel in his animal form without canceling the spell, as can characters shapeshifted into similar forms, like the Redcaps of the Milvi Antiquiti. Any use of magical transportation such as magical flight granted by Wings of the Soaring Wind or the use of such spells as Seven League Stride or Leap of Homecoming cancels the spell. The duration can be no longer than a year, and although resting at night within view of a milliarium magicum or lapis mercurius is allowed, the spell ends if the target abandons the via network. The spell also ends if the caster becomes lost, dies, or otherwise leaves the physical world through Twilight or regiones. It is equivalent in level to Moon, but requires Ritual magic.''
''New Target: Via Mercuria This targets a network of viae mercuriae, and anyone or anything on it or within sight of its milliaria magica or lapides mercurii. Unlike the Neo-Mercurian Target: Road Network (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 116), bridges and fords do not break a via mercuria. The roads still terminate at yards unless the building contains a linked lapis mercurius. For purposes of spell level calculation, Via Mercuria is the same level as Boundary, and requires Ritual magic.''

|]
''keep this secret well; the majority regard Mithras as an allegorical and magical symbol for Christ, with a very few practicing a form of Holy Magic. The Mithraian faction within House Flambeau are influential at the domus magna and throughout the Tribunal, and claim to be the true heirs to the legacy of Flambeau, opposing the Mercurian faction who are based at Aedes Mercurii and who trace their descent to Apromor and his rekindling of the Cult of Mercury and ancient Roman religion. The two cults despise''
''each other, with the Mithraians adopting an aggressively Christian stance, yet remaining willing to use force to resist the Crusade if needed, as opposed to the pagan Mercurians’ policy of strict non-intervention. While the Mercurians seek to keep their covenants hidden, the Mithraians favor a more proactive defense. Some have categorized the Mithraians as the “militant” Flambeau, and the Mercurians as the “spiritual” Flambeau, but that is unfair; many of the Mithraians are exceptionally pious and devoted Chris''
''tians, and some have been covertly fighting in the Reconquista in Iberia, no matter how great their respect for the Code of Hermes. The Mithraians can often be individualistic, though many have joined the Milites and sworn the chivalric oath of service before Primus Garus (See Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 15–16). The Mithraians are divided in their attitude to the rise of the Milites, but united in their absolute contempt for the Flambeau of the Cult of Mercury and their quiet determination to thwart the pretensions of Aedes Mercurii to the title of domus magna, and to defeat the political ambitions of their pagan brethren in anyway possible.''

==The Cult of Mercury==

''Aedes Mercurii serves as the fractious and confused center of what now remains of the former Cult of Mercury (see Houses of Hermes: Societates pages 16–17) in the Provençal Tribunal. They possess many ancient magical secrets, left over and guarded jealously from the early history of the Cult before it divided and became the Neo-Mercurians of other Tribunals (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 114–117). It is possible that magi who show exceptional promise will be invited to join the Cult of Mercury, and to be initiated into its secrets. The cult in Provence considers itself to be the true descendants of the ancient Mercurian Cult of Rome; they are antagonistic toward the Neo-Mercurian orders, whom they see as traitors and deluded fools. Within the Tribunal the priests (flamen) of the cult hold ceremonial positions by ancient tradition; despite their avowed paganism they perform rites that are largely uncontested because of the weight of tradition. At the start of each day of the Tribunal meeting they wear their elaborate masks and colorful robes of office. They are expected to speak for “the gods” in Hermetic ceremonies, reading signs and omens. Few magi take them seriously these days, and the official flamen at Tribunal is generally considered as irrelevant, an amusing piece of Hermetic tradition, or, to the more pious magi of Castra Solis, as blasphemous and worthy only of contempt. Yet the ancient tradition continues, and through the Cult the flamen''

[|

==Consecration of Priamitus==

''Ease Factor: 21 (Major Virtue: Mercurian Magic known to the Mystagogue) Script Bonus: +18 Script Details: To initiate a follower into the virtue Mercurian Magic, the mystagogue must spend at least a full season traveling the paths of the ancient Roman roads with the Initiate (Mystagogue’s time, +3); arriving at an ancient Temple of the Cult of Mercury (such as Aedes Mercurii), and performing the following ceremony''
''on May 15th, the date of the ancient festival of Mercuralia (+3): the Initiate’s head is sprinkled with water won from the spirit guarding the ancient Mercurian well on a Quest into a shrouded Magical regio at the site Porta Capena on the Appian Way (+3); she forswears any allegiance to her former faith and dedicates herself to the old pagan gods of Rome, acquiring the Pagan Major Story Flaw (+9) (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 109).''

|]
''wield considerable personal influence and secret power. The revitalization of the Mercurian religion began in the mountains of the Pyrenees at Val Negra and was led by Priamitus of Mercere, supported by Apromor of Flambeau. The group had its heyday in the early 900s, and soon after trickles of its secret knowledge began to spread, and other newer Mystery cults with magic derived from theirs began to form. By the time of the Schism War, the Cult of Mercury had fractured into many smaller and more disparate groups, each with their own take on the former cult. They focus on recovering the 37 Great Rites used by the ancient Mercurian priesthood and keeping the old Roman ways alive within the Order of Hermes. A few of them also know how to cast nonHermetic Mercurian rituals (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 76–77), and do so occasionally as part of their pagan religious traditions, though only the most fanatically loyal cult members are ever included in these ceremonies. The Mercurians are rigorously isolationist with regards to mundane society, and have no desire to be involved with either Cathars or Church, holding that magi have no business interfering in mundane matters. They are arch-conservatives, and while they dream of a return of the glory that was Rome, they aim to keep the Order as disengaged from the mundane world as possible. They despise the Mithraian faction in House Flambeau, whom they see as falsely taking the title of domus magna for Castra Solis when Aedes Mercurii is clearly the true heir to the lost covenant of Val Negra.''

==The Knights of the Green Stone==

''A small chapter of these chivalrous magi (described in The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 131–132) thrives among the Ostal des Exiles in the Toulousain, with members in other covenants. (Chapter 4: Toulouse; Ostal des Exiles) They are led by Gilbert of Flambeau and have strong links with Rhine and Normandy magi of the cult. If you are not using the Knights of the Green Stone in your saga, you can safely ignore them.''

==The Matres & Matrones==

''The origins of one of the most important Mystery cults of the region lie with the mater of the current Praeco, Dama of Merinita, in the late 800s. Not much is known about this maga, and Dama herself does not speak of her even to other members of the cult, but she is said to have come from the Thebes Tribunal. She lived in a covenant in the Médoc that she inherited (or stole) from Maugris of Diedne. She taught her magical secrets to her filii, Marie and Dama, and had strong ties to folk witches. The cult is dedicated to the advancement of women, and gained most of its imagery and mystery from three sources: the many folk witches who live in southwestern France, the particular reverence for Mary Magdalene and other female saints in the region, especially through the''
''propagation of the peculiar Black Madonna image which subverts the male-dominated Church and culturally roots holy women as strange and almost alien; and thirdly the patronage of Eleanor of Aquitaine, who those associated with the cult believe to have been at least a staunch supporter if not herself also a magical practitioner. (There are some, including Dama’s filia Marie of Poitiers, who say Eleanor was a folk witch who brought back her own secrets to the cult from her uncle’s court in the Holy Land). The cult includes some hedge wizards as well, and unGifted women who possess supernatural abilities and are thus granted ceremonial and organizational membership. The cult is not widely known, but can be uncovered with a cursory investigation; it is obscure, but not secret. Easily available information suggests that the Praeco Dama''

[|

==New Virtues==

''These Virtues are Initiated by the cult of the Matres and Matrones, and are probably only found among their members or those descended from them.''
''The Feminine Gift''
''This Minor Hermetic or Supernatural Virtue gives a normally-Gifted character the Gentle Gift with respect to female humans, the Blatant Gift with respect to male humans, and leaves the Gift unaffected for all others, including animals and any creature with supernatural Might. It takes men as long to get used to her as it takes them to get used to someone with the Blatant Gift.''
''Feminine Sympathy''
''Feminine Sympathy is a Minor or Major Supernatural Virtue giving the initiate a Feminine Sympathy Trait with a score of +1 (minor) or +3 (major). As described in Realms of Power: Faerie pages 102–104, this Trait may be added to non-Supernatural Abilities as a specialty when it is applicable, in this case when the character directly affects another woman. For example, to determine what a character knows about a maga in the''
''Tribunal, a character with Feminine Sympathy +3 could add three to her Organization Lore roll in lieu of a specialty. All rolls using this Trait become uses of a faerie power, affected by auras and realm interaction penalties, and must use stress dice. Botches give a Warping Point for each 0 rolled. The Trait increases with experience like an Ability (though it cannot exceed the character’s Warping Score), and also when the player rolls a 1 on the stress roll. It decreases when the player rolls a 0 when checking for a botch with this Trait.''
''Dark Magic''
''This Minor Supernatural Virtue allows the caster to benefit from Magic, Faerie, and Infernal auras, as if her powers were aligned to all three realms, and she is protected against gaining Warping Points from exposure to any of those auras. However, taking advantage of a foreign aura using this Virtue subtly taints the application of her magic, so that Divine and Infernal powers that sense holiness or unholiness recognize the character’s dark influence as unholy. This Virtue is thought to be related to Chthonic Magic, and may have originally come to the Order and the cult from the Witches of Thessaly.''

|]
''is involved and likely at the center of it. Alazais of Mercere, the Chief Redcap of the Tribunal and First Consul of the Coenobium in Arelat, is also rumored to be a member, as is Mariola of Tolosa Paratge, and Beatrice of Guernicus (who may well soon become Presiding Quaesitor) has suspected sympathies with it. The three levels of Initiation into the Matres and Matrones each require a great deal of service to the cult and the community, as well as a deep understanding of the cult’s lore, before the Initiate is allowed to progress. Few Initiates attain the highest rank, since the different tiers of Initiation are not only based on the worthiness of the Initiate but on other factors such as age and life experience, and advancing through the Mystery Cult is a saga-spanning journey. For most, the second level might be perceived as the highest level, as many of the cultists never choose to advance further. Characters initiated into the first level are referred to privately as Sisters, and fo''
''cus on interacting with the people of their communities, especially with non-magi. They must possess Organization Lore: Matres and Matrones 1, but there are no other requirements apart from the sacrifices inherent in the Initiation scripts. At this stage, women may be invited to initiate Venus’s Blessing, The Feminine Gift (see New Virtues on page 29), or The Gentle Gift, and must take an oath to protect other women from harm. Initiates into the second level are called Mothers (Matres) and take responsibility for the organization and spread of the cult and initiating new members. To qualify for this stage, the character must have a score of at least 3 in Organization Lore: Matres and Matrones, and have either given birth to a child or taken an apprentice. They may initiate Good Teacher or either the Minor or Major version of Feminine Sympathy (see sidebar), and tend to become as Driven as the cult’s founder. The recipients of the final level of initiation are the Matrons (Matrones), dedicated to advancing the cult’s goals among magical organizations and with representatives of the supernatural realms. Any potential Matron must have a score of 6 in Organization Lore: Matres and Matrones, a Feminine Sympathy Trait of at least +3, must have raised a child or apprentice to maturity, and must be of an age to have undergone menopause. They learn either Intuition, Dark Magic (see sidebar), or Chthonic Magic (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 123–124).''

==An Ex Miscellanea Tradition: The Gorgiastic Cathars==

''The Cathars hold a wide spectrum of beliefs, and argue and fragment on doctrinal issues. On the whole most Cathars are very open about their beliefs — they are not gnostic, that is they do not claim that special knowledge is needed for salvation. Among the many differing interpretations of the Cathar faith preached, there is a small mystery cult of theurgists, whose teachings ultimately derive from the Teachings of Criamon the Founder. They identify themselves as members of the Cathar Church, observe the Consolamentum, and honor the Perfecti, yet are in fact heretics even as far as most Cathars are concerned. As they are a Mystery Initiatory tradition and associated with the Magic Realm not the Divine, they have remained largely undetected, and they choose not to enter theological disputes with their “less enlightened” coreligionists. As such few Cathars recognize them as anything but brethren. The origin of the Gorgiastic Cathars lies in the tenth century, with a renegade Criamon of deep religious devotion named Anaïs of Toulouse. Exposed to the early Christian documents circulated by Cathar scholars, she reinterpreted the traditional mystery of House Criamon (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults). In her teachings the false creation of Lucifer has been molded by the intervention of the Divine toward harmony, but escaping to the sphairos remains the key to salvation. The path is not through the Enigma as understood by the House, however; to a Gorgiastic Cathar the hypostasis (Criamon’s refuge outside time) is in fact a subtle trap, not part of the solution to escaping the cycles of time. Anaïs replaced the notion of reincarnation common among Criamon with that of transmigration; even at death, the soul does not escape the world and time, but is immediately reborn elsewhere. As such, the Criamon and Gorgiastic Cathars agree on the eternal recurrence of cycles of time, and of endless lives within time, but disagree on the escape route. To Anaïs nothing within time and space (immanent) can achieve escape (transcendence) without''

[|

==The Procrustean League==

''A short lived and controversial alliance led by the Cathar sympathizer, Tolomae of Bellaquin, this group advocated open war against the Church in order to prevent the loss of Hermetic holdings in Provençal. Considered extremely dangerous by the majority of magi and renounced by both the conservative Mercurians of Aedes Mercuriae and the pragmatists of the Coenobium, House Jerbiton expelled Tolomae and declared him orbus (no longer a member of the House) in 1216. Tolomae was a suspect in the murder of the papal leg''
''ate, Pierre de Castelnaudry, but fled without answering the investigating Quaesitor’s questions. He was Marched in early 1218 for repeatedly interfering with mundanes, and slain. After his death, several of Tolomae’s rumored supporters fled to other covenants or remain unaccounted for in the wake of the Albigensian crusade. They hide amongst the faidits, the dispossessed nobility of Langue d’Oc. Some magi wonder whether their cause will vengefully resurface in the near future, honed to bitterness by the recent catastrophe.''

==Tres of Ex Miscellanea==

''Leader of a ragtag bunch of outcasts and opportunistic routiers from the northern armies, Tres is a rusticarii (a Craft magus, see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 130) who returned to the Tribunal of his birth seeking vengeance. He is described in Chapter 5: Gascony.''

|]
''an external being’s intervention. The only being who can allow salvation is therefore God, and only God can take the righteous to the sphairos. This was the purpose of the mission of Christ, and the path to apt action can be found in the teachings of the Gospels. While other Christian Criamon may believe that the Dominion is in fact a force for harmony, extending time and therefore the chance to escape from the eternal cycles, Anaïs came to believe that the fall saw the corruption of the Dominion aura, which is associated with the false creator, Lucifer. She controversially asserted that the Dominion and Infernal were both flip sides of the same tarnished coin, and ar''
''gued that the Magic Realm was the only way of reaching the true creator, God. As such her religious system is deeply theurgical, using magic as a religious practice to reach salvation. Anaïs founded a lineage through her two apprentices, who shared her religious beliefs. While House Criamon never accepted the teachings, a number of primi were sympathetic, and some in the House still regards the Gorgiastic Cathars as kindred spirits seeking the Enigma in their own way, while others see them as dangerous and deceived individuals who are increasing strife and engaging in actions that are not apt. Anaïs was eventually expelled from House Criamon, and with her''
''followers entered House Ex Miscellanea in 975; today only a handful remain, the majority in the Provençal Tribunal. They do not practice Enigmatic Wisdom, but have their own Organization Lore: Gorgiastic Cathars which doubles as a Theology ability for their strange belief system. Gorgiastic Cathars as an Ex Miscellanea Tradition receive the Major Hermetic Flaw: Twilight Prone, the General Major Virtue Ghostly Warder (referred to as their ‘Genius’, a tutelary spirit), and the Minor Hermetic Virtue: Quiet Magic.''

[|

==Potential Parentes of the Provençal Tribunal==

''For players who want their characters to have completed their apprenticeship in the Tribunal, the following magi would make suitable parentes for the characters.''
''Bjornaer''
''Bubulcus and Elornis One-Leg of the Coenobium''
''Bonisagus''
''Marcella of Stella Durus An unnamed Trianoman magus of the Coenobium''
''Criamon''
''Any of the four magi from Miniata Sophia''
''Ex Miscellanea''
''Ainza of Aedes Mercurii, Hermetic haruspex Any of the four Ex Miscellanea Sorginak eremites of the Pyrenees (although they cannot teach Folk Witch powers) Lavendarius of the Coenobium, Pralician Raimond of Tolosa Paratge, Gorgiastic Cathar Rebecca of Mimizan or any fellow sorginak, folk witch (although they cannot teach the Hermetic Arts)''
''Tres, rustic magus, has two filii''
''Flambeau''
''Any of the many Flambeau magi of Castra Solis or Aedes Mercurii Cyprian of Tolosa Paratge Gilbert of the Faidits (raised Jerbiton) Renaud of Stella Durus (filius of Cyprian) Robert Vasquez of Bellaquin Unnamed magi of the Coenobium''
''Guernicus''
''Damocles of the Coenobium (Guernicusraised, now Jerbiton) Fraxinus of Portus Termini Tibaut, the former Presiding Quaesitor, could have had an apprentice when he died in 1214, with the remaining years of his or her training finished by another.''
''Jerbiton''
''Any of the many Jerbiton magi of the Coenobium, including Balthazar, Pola, or Romualdus Jean Marie of Stella Durus Mariola and Carolus St. Tropez of Tolosa Paratge Valgravian, Constantine, and Antionette LeBarre of Bellaquin''
''Mercere''
''Guillermo of Ara Maxima Nova Ophilio of Aedes Mercurii''
''Merinita''
''Jeanne of Ara Maxima Nova Luc of Ara Maxima Nova Etienne of Ara Maxima Nova Marie de France, Poitiers chapter of Castra Solis''
''Tremere''
''Protendus of Aedes Mercurii''
''Tytalus''
''Aucassin the Eremite may have trained an apprentice prior to disappearing. Ahmad ibn Nasr of Tytalus, Frainetum Oxioun of Aedes Mercuriae''
''Verditius''
''Ruberus of Verditius, Head of Confraternity of Roland, from Aedes Mercurii. Other Vulcan Cult Verditius are mentioned at the covenant but not named Rycas is not of the Tribunal, but often visits Adam Carpentiere of Tolosa Paratge''

|]
''Faith & Flame The Tribunal of 1214''
''Remembered as one of the most discordant gatherings since the Schism War, the Tribunal held after the outbreak of the Crusade led to violent disagreements between Provençal magi. Originally scheduled to be held in Toulouse, the violence of the intervening years and the presence of de Montfort’s army outside the city’s walls required an alternative and the gathering shifted to Castra Solis, much to the chagrin of the Mercurian magi. Recent Hermetic responses to the crusade and charges of mundane interference against various magi who claimed to be defending their magical power in the face of the Crusade dominated discussion. Many accused magi from the Normandy Tribunal of clandestine interference, some Flambeau magi boldly claimed that their Tytalan rivals engineered the crusade. The outspoken Tolomae of Jerbiton argued for a coordinated Hermetic response to the crusade, amounting to blatant magical interference in mundane and Church affairs. Although many sympathized, he was ejected from the discussion, vowing revenge upon the Mercurian conservatives and his peacemaking former covenant, the Coenobium. The magi of Aedes Mercurii threatened to withdraw from the meeting entirely, a move which risked invalidating the Tribunal, and anarchy was only averted by the actions of the late Presiding Quaesitor Tibaut, aided by skilled political maneuvering by the Chief Redcap Azalais, who threatened the suspension of all Redcap services. During the Tribunal an attempt was made to bring charges against the magus Tres of Ex Miscellanea, who had armed a company of mercenaries with magical weapons claiming they were all his grogs,''
''and employed them to destroy the covenant of Mistridge, leveling the magically conjured tower with magical siege artillery. Despite the fact Tres’ actions were deplored by many, they were part of a justly declared Wizard’s War, and no ruling exists restricting the employment of grogs in the pursuit of such an action. The vote was narrowly in his favour, and Tres wisely fled in to hiding to escape the vengeance of the friends of Mistridge.''

==The Upcoming Tribunal of 1221==

''The next Tribunal meeting will take place, by agreement, in the ruins of Glanum (Chapter 8, Arelat: Glanum) in summer 1221. The Praeco Dama of Merinta, a maga of exceptional age and power, commands respect from many in the Tribunal, and is known to favor female magi. Despite her membership in Castra Solis, she lives apart in a small tower near Mimizan in Gascony, where she pursues her magical interests in seclusion. Perhaps for this reason she is regarded as acceptable by many Mercurians, and even Aedes Mercurii pay heed to her words if she chooses to speak. Since the former Presiding Quaesitor Tibaut died last year, it is assumed his filia Beatrice will take the position, but this could be contested and will be the first order of business. (Normally the Presiding Quaesitor is appointed at the close of each Tribunal meeting, together with two advisers.) Beatrice has yet to establish any respect amongst the competing factions, as she is young for the role. Beatrice is nominally a member of Castra Solis, but she has taken to spending all her time in the Arelat of late,''
''reputedly because of a falling out with the Flambeau Primus, Garus. Given the recent upheavals, it is likely that the dominating theme at council will remain interference with mundanes and the effects of the Albigensian crusade on the Tribunal. Those most affected by the crusade, the Hermetic faidits and refugees from other covenants affected by de Montfort’s forces, will demand license to defend themselves or enforce what they see as their right to reclaim their magical power. They seek the approval and backing of Garus and the milites of Castra Solis, even overt magical aid against the crusaders. The aloof conservative faction, led by the Mercurians of Aedes Mercuriae and supported by those southern covenants removed from mundane society and thus unaffected by the crusade (Ara Maxima Nova, Stella Durus, Miniata Sophia) will argue for not interfering and waiting out the current struggle, relying on their isolation to ensure their safety. If the Tribunal decides to formally intervene against the crusaders and the Church, the Pyrenean led group may boycott any future discussions in 1227 and even attempt to secede from the Tribunal entirely. Meeting the requirement of four covenants, they may petition to declare themselves an independent new regional Tribunal at the next Grand Tribunal, scheduled for 1228. An issue also in many senior magi’s minds is the growing power of the Coenobium, long respected as a source of stability and a paragon of cooperation amongst magi. The Jerbiton-and-Mercere controlled collective has greatly increased its influence, unopposed in the turmoil created by the recent destruction of several covenants by the crusaders. Its increasingly expanding hegemony makes even former allies uneasy. Tolosa Paratge’s internal war may also be raised, if any magi feel the situation should be resolved by the Tribunal and bring a case.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
