
[|
''In 1220, the western part of the Provençal Tribunal is a great wedge-shaped chunk of wilderness called the province of Guyenne and Gascony, or simply Gascony, and considered a part of the Duchy of Aquitaine. The territory extends south and east from Bordeaux along the Garonne river until it reaches Charlemagne’s Cross near Roncevaux in the Pyrenees, and includes all of the western coast as far as Bayonne. Gascony comprises three civilized regions corresponding to the three major cities: the northern area surrounding Bor''
''deaux, the higher ground and bishopric at Auch near Toulouse and the southeastern border, and the southwestern edges near Bayonne where Gascony meets the Basque lands. The English crown has firmly held this land since Richard the Lionhearted made his home in Bayonne and crushed the local lords. The current king of England, Henry III, enjoys visiting his mother, who lives nearby. Traditionally, the dukes of Aquitaine established themselves in Bordeaux and ignored the rest of the region unless necessity demanded action. They''
''make occasional, brief forays down the Garonne River in demonstrations of power. The Way of St. James, the third most popular pilgrimage in Mythic Europe — after Rome and Jerusalem — passes through much of the duchy. The Way offers a wellmaintained series of roads for pilgrims traveling to Iberia through Gascony, with five different paths, including the less commonly used route along the coast, known as “The English Way.” However, the interior of the country contains little more than uncultivated land, forests, and marshes. Several orders of''
''knights have created commanderies from donated lands, building small communities to protect travelers and generate revenue for the crusaders in the Holy Land.''

==The Way of St. James==

''Pilgrims have traveled to the shrine of St. James in Santiago de Compostela, established by Charlemagne as he marched to Zaragosa, from beyond the Pyrenees for centuries. By the beginning of the 1100s, the well-organized trip enjoyed acclaim across Europe, popularized by Aymeric Picaud’s Liber Peregrinationis, a gift to Pope Callixtus. Five separate routes wind across France and Provence, marked with wayposts bearing the ancient sign of the scalloped shell, symbolizing not only the journey, but those walking its path. Travelers wear a scallop shell on their hat or as a pin, and are called “palmers,” like pilgrims to the Holy Land. A dedicated support structure exists along the Way, beginning all over western Europe, converging just before the passage over the Pyrenees to Puenta la Reina in Navarra, and then continuing across northern Iberia before terminating at the cathedral of Santiago de Compostela. The devout living alongside the Way of St. James established hospitals to feed and tend pilgrims. Many offer as much food as the wanderer can take in a single scoop of the shell. Their churches are celebrated stops where praying travelers view relics. Their merchants maintain hostels, boarding houses, and a support industry generating rich revenue. The five popular routes through Provence are:''
''The English Way, following the coast of Gascony through Bordeaux and Bayonne. The Via Turonensis, from Paris, through Turonem, or Tours. The Via Lemovicensis, beginning in the town of Vézelay, through Lemovicum, or Limoges. The Via Podiensis, which starts in Le Puyen-Velay. Those who begin in Geneva call this the Via Gebennensis. The Via Tolosana, originating in Arles and passing through Toulouse.''
''The first four paths funnel to Roncevaux Pass by the town of Ostabat. Ostabat has two hotels, two hospitals, and over two dozen hostels, and over five thousand palmers a week pass through on their journey to the raw stone tunnel leading into Iberia. Constructed inside the tunnel, an inn operating in the pass provides a shelter from storms and snows while offering a place to rest mounts before continuing onward. Only the Via Tolosana uses a different pass; Italian wayfarers favor this one. Regardless of their road, pilgrims keep journals documenting their stops and the notable sites visited. In almost every town, one finds lodgings catering to pilgrims, bearing the Way’s signature shell icon. See The Church, page 16, for more information about creating pilgrimage stories.''

==Infernal Influences==

''In 1208, Pope Innocent III placed all of England under interdict to encourage King John’s reconcilation with the Church. As part of his holdings, many of Gascony’s churches closed and refused to celebrate mass for six years. In the relatively wild lands of southwestern France, a region with little traffic off the pilgrimage routes, a group of demons gained a foothold (see Six Deadly Spirits, nearby), and Infernal auras remain quite common, even in cities and villages where the Dominion holds sway during the day. At night, the Infernal often regains control. The interdict affected the Divine auras of the region in strange ways, leaving many weaker or altered from what one might expect, and no Divine aura less than seven is older than six years.''

==Story Seed: Six Deadly Spirits==

''These demons arrived during the interdict of 1208 and linger in the wild lands of interior Gascony. A demon generally descends upon a community, possessing its more prominent members. Through their victims, they encourage the rest of the village to sin, eventually enveloping the town in an Infernal aura. Each demon favors a particular deadly sin (two, in the case of Cenodoxus Superbia), and if it can ensure its host dies unrepentant, the victim returns as a minor demonic creature or''
''ghost. Three demons remain active in the area, while the demon of Greed has moved to the bridge of St. Thibery. The demons of Gluttony and Wrath travel amid the Crusaders in Narbonnais and Toulousain, spreading their vices among the Crusaders and defenders alike. What happens when these demons take notice of the covenant and attempt to corrupt companions or magi? If one escapes, will all six descend upon the covenant, possessing grogs and covenfolk to infiltrate it?''

==Story Seed: The Way of Secrets==

''Once a pagan mystery path, the route to Santiago de Compostela reflected a trip to the end of the world, where the sun died and the scallop became the symbol for rebirth from the sea. This original purpose was incorporated into stories of St. James rescuing a knight from the ocean. The pre-Roman path may offer insights into Diedne magic or links to Atlantis. Book Five of the Liber Peregrinationis offers advice for pilgrims, detailing recommended stopping places, relics for veneration, sanctuaries to visit, and the scams and bad food to avoid. While providing valuable insights into a piligrim’s life and describing Santiago de Compostela and''
''its cathedral, the text acts as a mystery script, possibly providing the path for Initiation into fertility magic secrets, or a method for amplifying a Hermetic longevity ritual’s efficacy. At the time, the text’s author remains unclear, and it demonstrates a great deal of Basque influence. Perhaps the authoring magus still lives in secrecy or hermitage—in the Pyrenees of either Provence or Iberia. He must be found to decipher the Initiation encoded within the manuscript. For most, a complete copy of the five books of the Liber Peregrinationis serves as a tractatus of Area Lore: Iberia, Area Lore: Provence, Artes Liberales (Music), Divine Lore, and Theology with a quality of 8.''

==Cenodoxus Superbia, Lord of Pride and Envy==

''Order: Lord of the Vessels of Iniquity Infernal Might: 40 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str +3, Sta +4, Dex +3, Qik +3 Size: +0 Confidence: 2 (7) Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Self-Confident; Overconfident Personality Traits: Depraved +6, Hateful +6, Subtle +5, Cunning +4, Deceptive +4, Vessel of Iniquity Demon +3 Reputation: Subtle & Effective 5 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 5 Combat: Fist: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +3 Dagger: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +6 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Bargain 7 (setting rates for assistance), Brawl 4 (dagger), Charm 7 (first encounters), Folk Ken 7 (humans), Guile 7 (craftsmen), Intrigue 7 (subtly spreading gossip) Powers: Form of Wickedness, 4 points, Init 0, Mentem. This Power is a special variant of the Coagulation Power, and it replaces that Power for this order of demons. The demon assumes a physical form with no shape, dimension, or other accidents of form; while composed of matter, it is pure sin made visible to mankind. Indescribable, this form provokes an extreme response in viewers who indulge in the sin of envy until they drop from exhaustion. (See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 39) Form of Man, 0 point, Init 0, Corpus. After taking physical form, the demon may shapeshift into any human form, which it may dissolve at will. Obsession, 1-3 points, Init –5, Vim. The demon can impose the Obsession Trait of Pride or Envy. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31-32) Contagious Obsession, 1 point per victim, Init 0, Mentem. Any person who succumbs to the Obsession (Envy) Power of a Vessel of Iniquity becomes a carrier of that Power, and can pass it on to anyone who becomes a victim of their sin.''
''Obsession is resolved in the usual way, except that if the target fails his personality roll, he becomes contagious. Any other person who suffers as a result of his new personality trait must himself make a resistance roll against the initial Obsession Personality Trait or succumb and become a carrier. The total number of people potentially affected is limited by the number of Might points the demon expended to fuel the power. Grant the Master’s Potential, 10 points, Init –17, Vim. Cenodoxus grants the equivalent of the Great Characteristic virtue to the target, raising the appropriate Characteristic associated with the target’s chosen craft to +3, or by +1, whichever is better (See ArM5, page 30). The demon usually grants the Virtue temporarily, subtracting the cost from its Might Pool. It can choose to bestow the Virtue permanently, which reduces the demon’s Might Score as well. If temporary, the Might points are only restored when the Virtue is withdrawn. The demon may do this at anytime by simply choosing to, but it also often occurs when a prohibition placed at the time of the gifting is broken. The prohibition is often just a time limit, like a year and a day or “until this project is complete.” Targets receiving the Virtue permanently also gain the Flaw Tainted with Evil. No Hermetic equivalent. R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Individual, Ritual Grant the Master’s Insight, 5 points, Init -7, Vim. The Lord of Pride and Envy grants the equivalent of the Puissant (Ability) Virtue to the target, providing a bonus to the appropriate craft ability of 2 (see ArM5, page 48). This power provides its bonus in addition to any bonus the target may have from other Virtues, including Puissant (Ability). (For example, a smith with Craft: Smithing) 3, Puissant Craft: Smithing and this benefit would have a total of 3+2+2.) The demon usually grants the Virtue temporarily, subtracting the cost from its Might Pool. It can choose to bestow the Virtue permanently, which reduces the demon’s Might Score as well. If temporary, the Might points are only restored when the Virtue is withdrawn. The demon may do this at anytime by simply choosing to, but it also often occurs''
''when a prohibition placed at the time of the gifting is broken. The prohibition is often just a time limit, like a year and a day or “until this project is complete.” Targets receiving the Virtue permanently also gain the Flaw Tainted with Evil. No Hermetic equivalent. R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual Shroud the Stench of the Pit, variable points, Init +3, Vim. The demon can conceal the Infernal nature of any other supernatural power or aura, making it appear to be Magical or Faerie instead. It may also be used to remove all stench of the supernatural, making things appear wholly mundane. This power can shield a creature or effect from the Sense Holiness/ Unholiness ability. This Power costs Might Points equal to the original cost of the Power being concealed, or Might Points equal to the magnitude of the Infernal effect if it does not cost Might Points. This Power lasts for as long as the Power it is masking. Weakness: Protected Group (meek people) Vis: There are eight pawns of Vim vis in the demon’s tongue and eyes. Appearance: Cenodoxus manifests as a handsome and well, but appropriately, dressed man or woman, depending on whom he targets. He always has a dagger adorning his outfit, and carries quality tools associated with his target’s chosen craft or profession.''
''Cenodoxus delights in acting as the advisor or muse, demanding the victim create ever better works while backhandedly stoking the craftsman’s ego and enticing him into a state of sinful pride. Then, he socializes with those surrounding or associating with the craftsman, noting the victim’s success, his innate skill, his brilliant vision — asking others what they wouldn’t give to achieve similar results, infecting them with contagious envy. These tactics help the demon corrupt whole guilds with hubris and jealousy, sometimes shifting its own allegiance simply to evoke envy in the victim he first uplifted. Cenodoxus sometimes leaves his dagger lying out and “misplaced,” when both tempers and passions flare, enabling murders of convenience. He would gleefully join a Verditius’ forge companions, and his higher Might means he can bypass many covenants’ Aegis.''

|]

==Faith & Flame Bordeaux==

''Since Eleanor of Aquitane’s annulled marriage to Prince Philip, Bordeaux has served as the stronghold of English interests in the region. The port does brisk trade in tin and lead with southern England as the gateway for the metal to the rest of France and beyond. The city is a major stop along the pilgrimage to Santiago de Compostella, and important churches include the Basilica of St. Seurin and the Basilica of St. Michel, which stands outside the city walls. Consecrated by Pope Urban II in 1096, Bordeaux’s cathedral is the seat of the archbishopric. Archbishops often act as conspicuous agents of English policy and the current archbishop, Guillaume Amanieu, is no different. King Henry III of England favors him with the title of Seneschal and Guardian of all his lands beyond the sea. No meek academic, Guillaume participated in both the Reconquista and the Albigensian Crusade. He regularly clashes with the archbishop of Bourges, Simon de Sully. Beneath the south side of town, in a natural cavern, is a Mithraeum, an ancient temple dedicated to the god Mithras and built by the Roman soldiers once stationed here. It has remained buried and hidden for centuries, its whereabouts known only to Kaeso of Flambeau (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 13). Fearing its discovery by the invading barbarians occupying Bordeaux, he kept it secret from the rest of the Order and built a different temple further east, on the site of what became Castra Solis. Further south of the city, on the banks of the river Leyre, stands the small hamlet of Belin. It supports a keep and a church, and is the purported birthplace of Eleanor of Aquitaine. The town enjoys a generous charter which draws many craftsmen. King Henry III is fond of the castle and prefers to make it his residence when visiting. The church is the resting place of Olivier de Viennes, Ogier the Dane, and several other of the Twelve Peers of Charlemagne. Ogier’s famed sword, Cortana, forged of the same steel as Roland’s mighty Durendal and formerly the weapon of King Arthur’s knight Tristan, is missing from the crypt. The church grounds have a Divine aura of 4, and the air is laden with a very sweet perfume. On anniversary of Ogier’s death, this blessed aroma can cure a sick penitent. On the anniversary of the Battle of Roncevaux, the scented air is laden with 5 pawns of Divine-tempered Creo vis.''

==Bazas==

''Situated on the edge of the Gascony Moors, at the confluence of the Garonne and Brion rivers, the walled city of Bazas serves as the seat of the bishopric. It is a regular stop on the Way of St. James starting from Limoges. Popular locations within the city include the Templar hospital established to serve travelers and the cathedral of St. John the Baptist, where pilgrims come to pray before continuing on to the Basque town of Ostabat. St. Veronica built the cathedral’s oratory and the altar holds a relic of St. John’s blood certified as authentic by Pope Urban in 1092, who returned to Bazas to preach the Crusade in 1096. It has a Divine aura of 5, which rises to 6 on August 29th, the feast day of the Baptist’s beheading. The countryside to the southwest is mostly marshland with a few respectable stands of pine and oak only casually harvested by the locals. Shepherds tend to their flocks, watching from stilts to stay above the fens. The shepherds claim a brilliant white creature lives on the edges''
''of those small forests, a unicorn gazing out from the trees for a few moments before returning to the woods. They believe such sightings to be an omen promising three days of safety for the flock. The rustic magus, Tres, his band of two other magi, and their custodes, use the rough and unforgiving landscape to hide and operate unmolested when not resting at their sancta. The many pilgrims traveling in the area mean few pay any attention to groups on the roads or camping outdoors, and moors help dissuade all but the most insistent visitors.''

[|

==Gascony Covenants==

''Current Covenants: Castra Solis (including Mimizan) Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Bachlach’s Hermitage, Nemetannais, Two Diedne sites, their names lost to the Schism War.''

|]

==Blaye==

''An ancient town established before Caesar’s arrival in Gaul, Blaye served as an important part of Charlemagne’s defense against the Saracens. The ancient king of Aquitaine, Charibert, and Charlemagne’s greatest paladin, Roland, lie in white marble sarcophagi, buried beneath the Basilica of Saint-Romain in a crypt. Overlooking the estuary, the basilica is a popular stop for pilgrims traveling the Way of St. James; they pray at the crypt or the altar before crossing the Gironde river by ferry. The basilica has a Divine aura of 4, which increases to 5 on the 15th of August, the anniversary of Roland’s death, and on the''
''24th of November, St. Romain’s feast day. A hospice dedicated to Saint Nicolas operates here, specifically to offer care to pilgrims traveling the route. While the count of Angoulême rules Blaye, a local lord governs the prosperous port from the citadel, Castle Rudel, which adjoins the basilica. Although the same family has served in this castellan role for generations, they serve at the pleasure of the counts of Angoulême. The current lord, Geoffrey I, was recently confirmed by Hugh X of Lusignan, the count of Angoulême by marriage to Isabella of Angoulême, in Aquitaine (See The Lion and the Lily, page 68).''

==The Médoc==

''The triangular area of land west and north of Bordeaux encompassing the coast and the mouth of the Gironde Estuary is mostly marshy wetlands. In antiquity, a Roman military post was set up in the area, to ensure the security of the road which traveled the coast. In the ninth century, the first medieval fortification was built on the Roman ruins using white limestone, giving it the name Blanquefort. The castle guards two roads: the first is called Levade, and links Bordeaux to Soulac in the northern part of the Médoc, and the second road is known as the Channel Soulac, which goes south to Bayonne. This road was a main artery of the Way of Soulac, or “Eng''

[|

==Adrian, the Voice of Safety==

''Order: Spirit of Deceit Infernal Might: 30 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +0, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +0 Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Charm, Puissant Guile; Weak-willed Personality Traits: Deceptive +6, Acedia +3, Persuasive +3, Spirit of Deceit Demon +3, Trustworthy –5 Reputation: The Convincing Silver Tongue of Doubt 4 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 4 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack -, Defense +8, Damage Fist: Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +4 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 5 (Dodge), Carouse 4 (appearing drunk), Charm 5+2 (first encounters), Etiquette 5 (nobles), Folk Ken 5 (humans), Guile 7+2 (convincing others), Perform 5 (guitarra latina), Theology 4 (duty) Powers: Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus. Can take on the form of a human between Size –2 and Size +2. He often chooses the form of a troubadour with a guitar. Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init –1, Men''
''tem.The target of this effect loses all judgment and believes a specific lie (as long as it is passable) until presented with evidence to the contrary. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is allowed to resist the effect. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim. the demon can impose the Obsession Trait of Acedia or Sloth. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31-32) Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus. May take on a physical body in 30 rounds of manifestation, or may dissolve with a round of concentration. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem. The target believes any lie, no matter how preposterous, until he relates the lie to someone else. He then realizes how ridiculous the falsehood sounds, and the demonic Power is broken. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 also reveals the lie’s veracity, with the first roll allowed an hour after the effect was used, and further rolls permitted every subsequent hour. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim. The demon duplicates the effect of any non-ritual Intellego spell for the cost of 2 Might Points. It may also gain a morsel of future knowledge, understanding the most immediate consequences of any one future action. Strangle the Noble Endeavor, 5 points, Init 0, Mentem. This power allows the demon to create a perfectly convincing moral, theological, and scriptural ar''
''gument for whatever point he is trying to prove, generally demonstrating how participating in a Crusade brings ruin on a person’s loved ones. After reasoned consideration a Intelligence + Theology against an Ease Factor of 9 reveals the reasoning to be false, with the first roll allowed a day after the effect was used, and further rolls permitted every subsequent month. Someone else may explain the error to the victim, effectively making the roll on the victim’s behalf. Weakness: Protected Group (Crusaders) Vis: There are 6 pawns of Vim vis in the demon’s hands. Appearance: Adrian appears as a handsome troubadour or beautiful trobairitz traveling the countryside, spreading news, and performing for both common folk and nobility through song and music.''
''Wherever the demon goes, it warns of the terrible atrocities being performed in Narbonnais or across the sea “in the name of faith,” and how people shouldn’t imagine either going to join the Crusade or even join the defense of the nearby Crusade’s targets, the Cathars. He infects people with the emotion of acedia, the sloth of inaction, convincing them they have no place participating in a fight that doesn’t involve them, and that such an endeavor would not only lead to folly and misery for the target’s family, but also serves uncaring nobles seeking to line their pockets.''

|]
''lish Way” of St. James, which began on the coast in Soulac, stretching south to the town of St. Jean Pied-de-Port. There, the Soulac Way joined the other four major routes of the pilgrimage before crossing over the Pyrenees at Roncevaux.''
''Blanquefort''
''The village of Blanquefort supports the keep overseeing the road, and has a white limestone church dedicated to St. Martin. A large marble sarcophagus occupies the church’s crypt, a possible rest''
''ing place of one of the Twelve Peers of Charlemagne. The Lord of Blanquefort is charged with collecting the toll from travelers on the road.''
''Soulac''
''This small town serves as the starting point for many English pilgrims seeking to walk the Way of St. James to Compostella. The Knights Hospitaller maintain a hospice here, and the Basilica of Our Lady of the End of the Earth boasts a number of relics. These include a candle from the nativity of the Lord, palm leaves''
''which fanned in Jesus as he entered Jerusalem, and most importantly, several drops of milk from the Virgin Mary. It has a Divine aura of 4. To the northwest of Soulac, a small group of Benedictine monks maintain the first monastery in the region, a chapter of the powerful abbey of Sainte-Croix de Bordeaux.''
''Dolmens''
''Hundreds of dolmens litter the fens and marshes of the Médoc, each with a Faerie aura of 1 to 5. Most of them serve as homes for the faeries that call the region''

[|

==Julian/Julia, the Tempter of the Way of St. James==

''Order: Tempters (Incubi/Succubi) Infernal Might: 15 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +3, Com +2, Str +2 , Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics x2, Puissant Charm, Puissant Guile; Weak-willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Deceptive +4, Lustful +4, Tempter Demon +3, Cowardly +2 Hierarchy: 3 Reputation: The Despoiler of the Pious 3 (Infernal), Clever 1 (Pilgrimage Hostels) Combat: Club: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +6, Damage +5 Fist: Init +2, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +2 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 3 (humans), Brawl 2 (club), Charm 7+2 (first encounters), Concentration 3 (maintaining concentration), Folk Ken 7 (humans), Guile 7+2 (seduction), Penetration 3 (Hag Ride) Powers: Coagulation, 2 point, Init –1, Corpus. The demon can obtain a material form, which it may dissolve at will. Obsession, 1-3 points, Init –5, Vim. The demon can impose the Obsession Trait of Betraying Lust. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31–32)''
''Harness the Wind, 1 point, Init 0, Corpus. This Power allows the demon to fly from one place to any other. The Power lasts until the journey’s end, or dawn. Most demons do not bother to do this; they instead discorporate and generate a fresh body at the new location. Sexual demons can do this, instead of using this Power, but lose their cargo when they do. Hag Ride, 1 point, Init 0, Corpus. The demon may “ride” a victim for an evening. This Power causes the victim to lie, fully conscious but unable to struggle, while assaulted by the demon. If the demon is in spiritual form, the victim can see ghost-like glimpses of his assailant. Being ridden by these demons causes the loss of a long-term Fatigue level, and prevents the recovery of any other Fatigue levels during the night. Sometimes a victim is ridden on consecutive evenings, and loses additional Fatigue level each evening. Some powerful sexual demons can cause wounds or can kill with a single ride. Others ride victims in their dreams. The target regains the power to move at dawn. Mutable Gender, 0 point, Init 0, Corpus. The demon can change the shape of its manifestation at will, to whatever male or female human form it desires. Julian almost always takes the mien of a raven-haired roguish man in his early twenties wearing pilgrim’s garb, unless another form would be more appropriate to the situation. Weakness: Protected Group (people who''
''have already lost love once) Vis: Three pawns of Vim vis reside in the demon’s belt buckle. Appearance: Appearing as a vibrant and cheerful man or woman in his or her early 20’s, the demon tempter is always finely, but suggestively, dressed. He favors rich blues and deep brown colors, and appears greatly interested in the victim’s insights and experiences.''
''Julian often asks a target to walk and tell him more about a topic the individual feels passionate about, drawing her aside from prying eyes before attempting to seduce the target with his powers. Then he arranges future trysts, even traveling along with the victim’s entourage. When possible, he escalates the liaisons, adding elements of risk while catering to every whim until the pair is “accidentally” caught in the act of carnal sin in the most damaging manner. Due to their nature, both Cenodoxus and Julian prefer to keep their activities to more populated sites, like Bordeaux, Bayonne or the ferry crossing at Blaye. Cenodoxus requires an audience to achieve his full effect, and so restricts himself to larger settlements. Julian finds settlements to be fertile ground for spreading his particular sin, and regularly preys upon pilgrims using the Way of St. James, fiendishly delighting in their spiritual corruption. Adrian wanders from town to village to city, performing at inns and taverns every night, carousing with the inhabitants to better widely spread his obsession.''

|]
''home and serve the Queen of Rosefleur as she torments travelers on the pilgrimage. More powerful creatures lair at sites with stronger auras. Collectively called Dames Blanches, these faeries include the courtly fae, nymphs, and sirens common through the area, along with a few trolls and fauns. They often try to lure pilgrims from their journey and either eat them (in the case of the trolls), or encourage them to live in the wilderness, where the victims often (unintentionally) die of exposure. Others simply''
''request assistance in some small task or a few moments of dancing in order to allow travelers to pass unmolested, tormenting those who refuse. These faeries take forms ubiquitous and commonly known throughout Mythic Europe, making their stories familiar to pilgrims of any nation.''
''Rosefleur''
''The castle of Rosefleur resides within a Faerie regio of six levels on the west''
''ern shore near the tip of the peninsula. It appears as a fairy-tale castle with narrow towers, fluttering banners, and smooth cut stone set in a paradise of flora and fauna, in stark contrast to the muddy and windswept lands of the mundane level. The aura of this place ranges from 2 at the lowest point, to 7 at the heart of the castle. The faerie inhabitants are nude most of the time, though they dress in gossamer finery appropriate to a noble court when their queen entertains guests. The lady Oriande la Fée rules over the faeries of the region, claiming suzerainty from the northern-most bank of the Gironde south to the foot of the Pyrenees and east to the Camargue. The faeries of the region all recognize her, though many pay only the smallest amount of lip service to her rulership — that is, until she arrives in person. In the mundane world, the outline of the small temple sanctuary where the Gauls worshipped her as an aspect of the Goddess Sirona, patron of healing and springs, is still visible. A highly-cognizant gift-giver and sustainer, she changed her role into that of a challenger along the remnant Roman roads and later the Way of St. James. Her constant interaction provided the Vitality to reenvision herself as the region changed, but her origins lie in the muddy square of stones.''

[|

==The Helen of Gaul==

''First married at the age of 12, Isabella of Angoulême was once the Queen of England, the widow of King John and the mother of both fourteen yearold King Henry III and eleven year-old Richard, High Sheriff of Berkshire and future Holy Roman Emperor. Eleanor of Aquitane approved of her, and the English people called her “Messalina,” “The Helen of Gaul,” and a “siren,” although her beauty infatuated them. She married Hugh without waiting to receive the consent of the king’s council in England, a required procedure for a former queen of England. Traditionally, the council not only chose the queen dowager’s second husband, but decided whether she should be allowed to marry at all. Isabella’s defi''
''ance caused the council to confiscate her dower lands and stop the payment of her pension. Isabella and her husband retaliated by threatening to keep the ten yearold Princess Joan, King Henry’s sister and the promised wife of King Alexander II of Scotland, in France—perhaps hidden away in Castle Rudel under the watchful eye of the Lord of Blaye. Isabella will have another nine children with Hugh over the next fourteen years, and her notorious beauty never fades. Does faerie blood run in her veins, or has Isabella struck a bargain with Oriande la Fée, and if so, at what price? Does she conspire with Ducaru of Stella Durus (see Chapter 7: Narbonnais) to secure her legacy and bloodline with his machinations?''

==Story Seed: The Hero’s True Panopoly==

''Notably absent from the crypt in Blaye are both Roland’s legendary relicladen sword, Durendal, and Roland’s fabled Olifant, a signal horn carved from the horn of a unicorn and sundered by the force of Roland’s dying act of sounding it. The fate of these objects is a mystery. The horn purportedly rests across the estuary in Bordeaux, in the basilica of Saint Seurin. Durendal’s resting place is much more uncertain. Stories claim the sword’s golden hilt holds a tooth of Saint Peter, the blood of Saint Basil, a lock of hair of Saint Denis, and a piece of the raiment of the Blessed Virgin Mary, making it a puissant weapon against demons and powerful protection against harmful magics. The Confraternity''
''of Roland claims Wayland Smith and Verditius forged the blade, which might make it a breakthrough of Divine and Magical synthesis. The tale of Roland claims the dying knight used it to cut La Brèche de Roland in the Pyrenees while trying to break the blade in order to deny it to the Basques overrunning his host (even though Roland’s Breach is nearly 100 miles to the east!) When the weapon remained unharmed, he flung it away, and it was found stuck in a cliff wall beneath the abbey in Rocamadour, 200 miles away—perhaps drawn to the many relics contained within the abbey, including a wooden Black Madonna carved by Saint Amadour. Although a sword remains in the cliff in 1220, it is also said that Charlemagne''
''claimed Durendal in the aftermath of the battle, and that the Verditius magus Roscius later stole it away to Verdi. Roland is thought to have received church burial, but if he did not and his ghost was somehow summoned, he could confirm the provenance of the weapon wedged in the rock face or answer questions regarding its origins. The ghost Pyrene’s (see Chapter 6, The Pyrenees) close association to the mountains means she likely witnessed the battle where Roland fell. If she can be convinced to travel to Rocamadour, or if the alleged sword is brought to her, she could validate its authenticity. If the weapon in the cliff is Durendal, then what has the Confraternity of Roland brought inside Verdi?''

==Oriande la Fée==

''Faerie Might: 50 (60 in her demesne) (Herbam) Characteristics: Int +4, Per 0, Pre +4, Com +4, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Focus Power x2, Great Characteristics x3, Greater Power x3; Fae Sight, Fae Speech, Humanoid, Highly Cognizant, Improved Characteristics x6, Increased Might x9, Improved Powers x2, Lesser Power, Personal Power x3, Place of Power (Médoc), Pretentious; Monstrous Appearance, Vulnerable to Iron; Poor Combatant, Restricted Might (Storm), Susceptible to Deprivation, Traditional Ward: Divine. Personality Traits: Curious +4, Aloof +3, Faerie Queen +3, Meddling +3 Reputations: Cruel 3 (local), Meddlesome 3 (Knights), Observant 3 (region) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense +1, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Provence 6 (Gascony), Animal Handling 6 (woodland creatures), Artes Liberales 3 (Astronomy), Athletics 3 (dance), Awareness 2 (within court), Bargain 7 (setting favorable terms), Brawl 1 (dodge), Carouse 6 (appearing intoxicated), Charm 6 (knights), Concentration 3 (remaining focused), Etiquette 7 (inciting insult), Fae Speech 6, Finesse 6 (Rego), Folk Ken 2 (men), Guile 3 (entendres), Intrigue 5 (confounding conversation), Leadership 6 (directing fae), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 4 (Merinita), Penetration 6 (Rego), Profession: Storyteller 4 (history), Survival 4 (fens) Powers: Call of the Kept, 0 points, Init 0, NonHermetic. Oriande may call forth a Faerie ally, providing it with the cue''
''to manifest and act as she directs. R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind Caress of the Lethe, 4 points, Init –4, Mentem. The person touched by Oriande forgets his mortal life until he sees a particular object, or class of object, associated with his home. R: Touch, D: Until, T: Ind Dream’s Undeniable Invitation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Oriande causes a human within Voice Range to fall asleep. R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind Enthralling Sound, 3 points, Init –3, Mentem. Through her storytelling Oriande creates a particular emotion in any group of people who hear her speak. This power also increases the intensity of an existing emotion. A stress roll with an appropriate Personality trait against an Ease Factor of 9 allows a victim to overcome this power’s effect. R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group Extended Glamour, 0 points, constant, Mentem. This power allows the Queen to take control of a mundane area, making it an extension of her Faerie kingdom. Focus Power (Plants within her realm), up to 10 points, Init 0, Herbam. Oriande may create Herbam effects up to 10th magnitude. (10 Intricacy points spent on Initative) On the Breath of the Wind, 5 points, Init –5, Herbam. Oriande transforms into a swirling breeze of leaves appropriate to the season until she decides to resume her regular form. R: Per, D: Until, T: Ind The Price of Impertinence, 5 points, Init -5, Animal. A human within range of Oriande’s voice is turned into a woodland creature, such as a squirrel, a hare, a fawn, a hedgehog or polecat, until a condition set by the Fae Queen is met. R: Voice, D: Until, T: Ind Equipment: Oriande carries a dagger with a blade of glass, which she can gift for use within her lands as part of her Extended Glamour. When she does so, it becomes a weapon of the wielder’s choice. Vis: 10 pawns of Herbam vis in her antlers.''
''Appearance: A beautiful woman with faintly olive skin and a pair of mosscovered wooden antlers protruding up from her wild yet luxuriant hair, which is shot through with small flowers. Oriande’s amber eyes are the color of frozen sap, revealing the callous and arrogant visage of a noble who exercises power absolutely and despises being thwarted. Her dress is made of leaves and lacy spider webs, and she walks trailing a cloud of fireflies or soft snow flurries, depending on the season. Where she steps, the natural environment seems to become more perfect— new shoots and bulbs burst forth in Spring, lush grass and leaves unfurl in Summer, vibrant colors emerge in Autumn, crisp frost forms and dried leaves swirl in Winter, only to fade slightly when she departs.''
''Oriande delights in tormenting wandering knights and pilgrims, causing them to forget their journeys and remain with her for as long as they entertain her. She draws vitality through the creation of conflicts, such as by kidnapping people and holding them hostage or stealing items and demanding tasks or ransoms in exchange for their return, and forcing the knights and pilgrims of the area to resolve those stories, either by rescuing what was taken or dying in the process. In these tales, she plays the capricious Faerie regent, exercising power at her whim. Particularly intriguing knights have been gifted her dagger, which has transformed into a blade of glass at their desire. It may not be particularly effective against mundane opponents, but faeries of the region immediately recognize it as her token—though some may seek to claim it for their own! Once the playthings of this faerie queen become faeries themselves, she generally loses interest in them. She has hosted many magi in her court as refugees, vassals or allies, including Maugris and Dama. Dama, in particular, spent a long period there while pursuing the mysteries of Story Magic.''

|]

==Faith & Flame Knightly Matters==

''Many orders of knights operate in Occitania, but the greatest concentration protects pilgrims traveling the Way of St. James in addition to other various duties. The most significant orders are described here.''
''Knights Templar''
''Spread throughout Europe, the Poor Fellow-Soldiers of Christ and of the Temple of Solomon, Order of the Temple, or Knights Templar are the largest knightly order of the era. They operate under a Papal Bull, exempting them from local laws, permitting them to freely cross borders and pay no taxes. The Templars’ primary mission is the liberation of the Holy Land, and they realize that such an endeavor demands resources and manpower. In order to accomplish this task, they establish outpost sites, usually donated lands, which they cultivate and use as recruiting stations. Called “Temple commanderies” or “Temple preceptories,” Templar sites consist of a house for the commander, a dwelling for the monks and other members, a place for pilgrims to stay, a farm, a mill, a chapel and a cemetery. Each site requires water and generally has easy access to a stream or well. Some have hospitals for the sick or dungeons to keep prisoners and all are surrounded by a boundary wall. (For more on Templar history and structure as well as other orders of knights, see The Church, page 102.) There are one hundred commanderies''
''of the Knights Templar in Languedoc, with 27 in Arelat, 20 in Gascony, 14 in Narbonnais, and 29 in the Toulousain. Of the 17 commanderies in Clermont-Auvergne region (See The Lion and the Lily, page 70), ten are considered within the Provençal Tribunal. There are no commanderies in Andorra or the Pyrenees. The commanderies in Gascony and Toulousain (as well as the nearest civilian settlement, unless the commandery is established in a town) are charged with protecting the Way of St. James, in addition to supporting Templars participating in both the current Fifth Crusade and the Reconquista. Depending on a facility’s nature— whether it watches over pilgrims, generates revenue, or both—anywhere from six to fifty brother-knights, an equal number of brother-sergeants and at least one chaplain priest form the garrison. Many of these warriors have participated in campaigns in France and Iberia, as well as crusades, and the commander is selected from among them by a vote of the members. One commander, called a tutor, is selected from local commanders to oversee operations within a country. The leader of the Templars claims the title of grand master. The current grand master is Peter de Montaigu, a native of Auvergne. His brother, Guerrin de Montaigu, is the grand master of the Knights Hospitaller. There are normally three Templar masters in the Tribunal. Giraud Brochard is the master of Aquitane and Guillaume d’Ailly, the Master of Provence and Spain. The Master of the Province and Balliwick of Provence died in 1219. Historically, the''

[|

==Story Seed: Ill-Met By Moonlight==

''Oriande is an archetypal Faerie Queen, and may fulfill such a role in many different stories set in the area. For example, Oberon (see The Lion and the Lily, page 72) may consort with her, or perhaps quarrel with her over a child from the covenant. The Boar King (see The Lion and the Lily, page 119) might seek her hand and deem the magi or their companions as appropriate challenges to demonstrate his devotion. Alternatively, she might choose to meddle with a knight on a quest, waylaying and tempting him much like the faeries in Arthurian legends. She might manufacture''
''problems for nearby settlements, or take hostages whom she vows to release if certain items are returned to her or certain activities completed. She claims to have Ogier the Dane’s sword, Cortana, in her possession as a result of just such trickery. A favorite tactic is to direct a lesser faerie to provoke a group of travelers into hostilities, then appear in the aftermath and demand missives be delivered to other faerie nobility in the region as reparations for the harm inflicted upon her subjects. She then shadows these messengers, manufacturing challenges along the way to gain vitality.''

|]
''post remained vacant until 1229. Commanderies often operate in the same manner as abbeys and monasteries. For example, Montsaunès Commandery, fifty miles southwest of Toulouse, supervises dependencies and satellites throughout the Toulouse area. The Commandery of St. Marcet and the Boudrac Commandery are both dependents and the knight commander also oversees smaller posts including those of Escanecrabe, Figarol, Lestelle de Saint-Martory, Mazeres-sur-Salat, and Saint-Jean Plante. The Templars at Montsaunès also manage possessions in the towns of Arbon, Guau, Laffite-Toupière, Salies-duSala, St. Martory, Saint-Gaudens, Soueich, and Valentine. The Templars refused to support the Albigensian Crusade against the Cathars. Peter de Montaigu declared only one true Crusade existed — the Crusade against the Saracens. Bertrand de Blanchefort, fourth''
''Grand Master of the Templars from 1153 to 1170, had Cathar heritage, and his descendants in Razas fought on the side of the Cathars against the Albigensian Crusade. Because of their independent standing, commanderies with close ties to Cathar communities occasionally hid perfecti for short periods. For more information on playing Templar characters or designing Templar commanderies, see The Church, page 102.''
''Knights Hospitaller''
''The Order of St. John of Jerusalem, or the Knights Hospitaller, also have a strong presence in Provence. They focus on supporting pilgrims along the Way of St. James and generating revenues to support operations in the Levant, much like the Knights Templar. The primary preceptory is in''
''Saint-Gilles, near Nimes, and administers fifty-three of the eighty-one holdings across Arelat, Gascony, Narbonnais, and Toulousain. The preceptory in Toulouse administers the other twenty-eight. Additional information on the Hospitallers can be found in Tales of Mythic Europe, page 70.''
''Knights of St. James of the Sword''
''Founded and based in Iberia, the Knights of St. James of the Sword, or Order of Santiago, possesses only a few holdings in Provence, the most significant of which is the Bessaut Commandery and hospital of Our Lady Mary Magdalene. All of the Order’s commanderies in the region are established along the Way of St. James, and primarily in Gascony. They serve solely to defend and assist pilgrims. A sizeable dona''

[|

==Unicorn==

''Perhaps because it was an emblem of Jesus’ Incarnation or because it was believed to represent the fearsome passions of nature, the unicorn did not widely appear in early heraldry.''
''Divine Might: 20 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com –2, Str +6 , Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik -1 Size: +3 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Divine Animal; Divine Master, Greater Purifying Touch (poison); Improved Characteristics, Longwinded, Sense Holiness/Unholiness, Unaffected by the Gift; Mute, No Hands; Baneful Circumstances (virgin women), Compassionate, Reclusive, Weakness (virgin women). (Divine Animal and Divine Master are as Magical Animal and Magical Master, but aligned to the Divine Realm) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Righteous Fury), Improved Abilities, Improved Confidence, Improved Initiative (alicorn), Improved Might (x3), Improved Power (x1, Righteous Fury, x2, Sense Virginity), Improved Recovery, Lesser Power (Sense Virginity), Minor Virtue [Improved Characteristics] (x3), No''
''Fatigue (The Unicorn instead uses Confidence points for its Greater Purifying Touch) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Pure +3, Unicorn +3, Cautious +2 Reputations: Reclusive Beast of the Woods 3 (local), Symbol of Romantic Love 2 (Languedoc) Combat: Hooves: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +7 Alicorn: Init +4, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +9 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, –1, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incap. (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local Region 1 (hidden places), Athletics 5 (galloping), Awareness 3 (humans), Brawl 4 (alicorn), Concentration 2 (Sense Virginity), Folk Ken 3 (humans), Penetration 4 (Sense Virginity), Sense Holiness/ Unholiness 4 (women), Stealth 5 (remaining unseen), Survival 4 (forests) Natural Weapons: Alicorn: Init +2, Atk +3, Def +2, Dam +3 Powers: Righteous Fury, 4 points, Init 0, Animal. R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind. Surrounded with''
''a nimbus of soft white light, the unicorn’s hooves and alicorn become razor sharp, infused with the power of the Lord as it gains a +5 bonus to all Attack and Damage rolls. MuAn 40 (Base 25, +2 sun, +1 size): Greater Power (40 levels, +10xp Penetration), Improved Power (Initiative x5) Sense Virginity, 3 point, Init +3, Corpus. R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Individual. By gazing into the eyes of an individual, the unicorn can determine whether the target is a virgin. InCo 15 (Base 5, +1 eye, +1 Conc): Lesser Power (15 levels, +5xp Concentration, +5xp Penetration), Improved Powers x2 (initiative) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are four pawns of Divinelyaligned Animal in the unicorn’s horn, or alicorn as it is also called. Appearance: Equal to a mighty charger fit for a king, this creature appears as a horse with a goat’s cloven hooves and beard, a lion’s tail, and a slender, spiral horn on its forehead. Design Note: This creature was created using the rules from Realms of Power: Magic, but with substitutions appropriate for a Divine creature.''

|]
''tion from Guilhem de Mazerolles in 1219 funded the new hospital’s construction at the Bessaut Commandery. A host of eight knights, their households and two score of men-at-arms operate from the compound, which is not associated with any nearby settlement. The Knight Commander is Juan Marcos Correa, a seasoned veteran of the Reconquista with a pleasant demeanor. He enjoys good relations with the other surrounding commanderies of other Orders, and his brother is also a member of the Order of Santiago in Iberia. The current grand master in Castile is Martín Peláez Barragán.''

==Langon==

''Established on the left bank of the Gironde river, Langon functions as a trading port and a stop on the Way of St. James before continuing south to Bazas. It is also notable for the nearby Roquetaillade Castle — the first castle built by Charlemagne and now the home of the baron de La Motte. Each Lord de La Motte has improved upon the citadel to create the current structure, an imposing square castle with four towers. A group of faerie stoneworkers who live in the nearby caves make this continued expansion feasible. They have made a pact to serve the de La Motte family and so complete a construction project for each new lord. The details of this bargain are kept secret, and only passed from father to son at the old lord’s deathbed.''

==Marmande==

''Founded by Richard the Lionheart around 1195 on the banks of the Garonne, the walled town of Marmande was, by 1209, the property of the Count of Toulouse. It was taken in 1212 by the forces of de Montfort, and then, after rebelling, again in 1213. In 1214 an English army approached, and the castle and town went over to King John’s banner, but when the English retreated after the disaster at Bouvines the crusaders were unwilling to give the inhabitants another chance for treachery. In the winter of 1218, just after Christmas, crusaders loyal to Prince Louis arrived,''
''commanded by count Centule d’Astarac. After a nine month siege, the garrison surrendered and was allowed to march out with the terms faithfully observed. Then the crusaders, commanded by Amaury de Montfort at the direction of the Bishop of Saintes, systematically massacred all five thousand citizens of the town, sparing neither women nor children, and even slaughtering the livestock — claiming the act was necessary to secure continued blessings for their arms. Once they completed their bloodshed, they set fire to the whole town and leveled all that they could. Many say twenty-four year-old de Montfort ordered the killings in revenge for the death of his father at Toulouse in 1217. In 1220, the area is a great field of rubble and ashes where the charred bones of the five thousand victims of events of a year ago lie unburied. A strong Infernal aura of 6 remains here, rising to 7 on September 26th, the anniversary of the horrible event. On that night, those with Second Sight see the ground covered in the gruesome bloodsoaked handiwork of Prince Louis’ men, as if the carnage had “rained down from the heavens.” Ghosts are common here, as are Infernally corrupted crows which fed upon the abandoned carrion.''

==Auch==

''Auch is situated on the river Gers, and ruled by the count of Armagnac, PierreGerald. Auch has been the seat of an archdiocese since 879, when it was moved from nearby Eauze. However, the cathedral burned down in 1170 and its reconstruction has not proceeded beyond clearing the site of most of the rubble and raising a few portions of the outer walls. It has no Divine aura. Located in the approximate center of town, the old cathedral was built over the site of several mithraea. Hidden within the catacombs are six complete tauroctony altars crafted of white marble. Mithraeans performed purification rituals and mystery initiations at these altars. The structure immediately surrounding and including the altars has a Magic aura of 3. If your saga follows history, no further attempts to reconstruct this cathedral''
''happen until 1310, when only the ribs and vaults are completed, leaving a rough skeleton to be demolished in a conflict of the 15th century. The relics of the cathedral, once dedicated to St. Thomas, remain with the archbishop’s retinue and he normally travels with Prince Louis’ crusaders. Garsie de Lhort became archbishop in 1214 and was present at the massacre of Marmande. The count does not like the archbishop, and this enmity has existed for some time, with its roots in the Albigensian Crusade. His father, the previous count, was known for his correspondence with the trobairitz, Lombarda. The two met in Toulouse and maintained an unrequited relationship throughout the Albigensian Crusade. The conflict kept them from reuniting before the count’s death in 1219, and the current count feels the archbishop’s support of the Crusade prevented his father’s happiness.''

==Agen==

''This otherwise unremarkable town on the Way of St. James is home to a small sect of Christians descended from a Diedne magus who successfully hid from the Order by renouncing his magic and becoming a hermit several years before the Schism War. The magus was a devout follower of St. Valerie of Limoges, purported to have personally known Valerie before her death and canonization. Ev''
''ery year, on the summer solstice, his followers make the short pilgrimage to Limoges and the Benedictine abbey of Chambon-sur-Voueize to visit her bones after lighting candles at the church of Saint Caprasius of Agen. In truth, Estebe, formerly Bachlach of Diedne, was a pagan warrior-magus who desired a saintly woman named Valerie, and cut off her head when she refused to marry him. She then miraculously stood and carried her head to Limoges, presenting it to the archbishop. Humbled, Bachlach immediately converted to Christianity, changed his name, and returned to his covenant as a hermit. His followers now form an unusual cult, living apart from society in the wilds of Gascony and seeking overt manifestations of the Divine in nature. They are particularly interested in stories of the unicorns seen near Bazas. The remnant structures of the covenant-turned hermitage have a Divine aura of 2, which fades and becomes a Magic aura of 2 on the night of the summer solstice. Bachlach’s research and journals are still here, kept in an old ossuary next to the magus’ crypt, and could provide insights regarding Diedne magic and rituals from the dawn of the Order. They are just as likely to reopen old wounds of the Schism War best left alone. While their initiations are cryptic and secretive, and some claim they involve a ritual reenactment of St. Valerie’s beheading, the Agen Valerenes have demonstrated powers of Intervention and Purity, as well as the virtues of Saint’s Aid and Wilderness''
''Sense. The group in Gascony is associated with the larger Valerene cult in Limoges, and the two often assist one another in larger initiations, but both struggle independently to acquire a special ring possessed by the bishop of Limoges. In 1172, during the investiture ceremony of Richard I as princeps of Aquitaine, it was called “the ring of Valerie” and proclaimed to ensure “he may be fortunate in deed, abundant in faith, and finally come to glory with the Lord of Lords.” This relic, Valerie’s proposed wedding ring, was returned to the bishop when Richard went on Crusade.''

==La Romieu==

''This small village is roughly a mile from the site of a fairly prominent former Diedne covenant called Nemetannais. The covenant was founded in the mid-900s as a southern extension of Branugurix, but since the Schism War, the only distinctive characteristic of the area has been its unusual number of feral, magical cats, or matagots, considered descendants of the familiars kept by the magi, and who bear many distinctive qualities of the lineage of Diedne the Founder’s familiar. The former covenant site was near a series of caves and six small, pyramidal monuments of garluche sandstone associated with declarations of “safe haven,” called sauvete. However, these 12-to-15-foot monuments stretch back to time immemorial, and mark the boundaries of a Magic aura of level 3, which includes the cave complex. The caves, however, are of questionable stability, given how the covenant was destroyed by Flambeau magi.''

==Bayonne==

''Rebuilt in the mid-tenth century by Basques and Viking settlers, Bayonne is a major shipbuilding port and whaling center in Aquitaine. Construction of its great cathedral of St. Mary of Bayonne began in 1213 and still continues, while the completed crypts now house the relics of the city’s patron saint, Leon de Carentan, beheaded''

[|

==Story Seed: Scourge of the Way==

''Drakes and worms have begun plaguing the pilgrims attempting to travel the Way of St. James. They are particularly terrible near Ostabat. The knightly orders of the region can handle an occasional small “dragon,” but these numbers threaten to overwhelm them. They seek out the''
''covenant and ask to establish a temporary relationship while “crusading” against the creatures. A group of questing Verditius and vacationing Jerbiton both agree to the knights’ terms as well, and suggest an amicable competition and friendly wager between the hunting parties.''

==New Virtue: Saint’s Aid==

''Major, Supernatural This Virtue grants the Ability Saint’s Aid at a score of 1. By beseeching St. Valerie (or another saint with a particular interest in the character) for help when performing Divine Powers and Methods''
''or Holy Magic, the character may ignore the necessary Fatigue or Confidence cost. This blessing may be used a number of times between confessions equal to the character’s score in Saint’s Aid. This Virtue is always associated with the Divine realm.''

|]
''by Vikings in the ninth century. The incomplete cathedral has a Divine aura of 2, which rises to 3 on the saint’s feast day of March 1st. Bayonne gained a charter from King John in 1215, granting it a mayor, jurors, councilors, and advisors. This freed it from feudal obligations to the count of Labourd. The count has lived about ten miles east, in Ustaritz, ever since Richard the Lionhearted''
''crushed the local lords in 1177 for participating in a rebellion against King Henry and then remained to occupy Bayonne until 1199. Regardless of who ruled them, the Basque people have lived in this region since before the Romans arrived. Their traditions and culture form the very core and personality of the land. They are expert whalers and capable warriors, and even have''
''a population of roughly fifteen folk witches, or Sorginak (singular: “sorgina,” See Chapter 6: Pyrenees) scattered amongst the various villages and townships of Gascony, and the Basque Country of the Pyrenees. Although far more mundane than the coven of folk witches, the whalers of Bayonne are also a sophisticated and wellorganized community. Excellent shipbuilders and sailors, they watch the coastal waters from high towers, called “vigias,” and launch a flotilla of small boats into the water at the first signs of local whales, or “sarda.” Then, armed with harpoons and throwing spears, they pursue the animals. After driving one to the shallows, they harvest it for meat and natural products. They have honed this deadly craft for nearly 200 years, and are considered second to none. The bones of Whales of Virtue hold Animal vis, while the baleen (a long series of thin plates in the whale’s mouth) contains Aquam vis.''

[|

==Matagot==

''“At first I thought it no different from other cats, perhaps oddly colored, but the creature has a definite taste for food and a vindictive nature. The gold was useful, I admit, but I can do without the temper of such a damnable, cruel beast.”''
''—From the Journal of Acumenis Ex Miscellanea''
''Magic Might: 15 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –4, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +4 Size: –3 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Luck, Perfect Balance, Puissant Awareness, Sharp Ears, Unaffected by the Gift; Magic Friend, Nocturnal, Proud, Tainted with Evil, Vow (serve the individual who first feeds it food until the person dies or releases it from service) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Ritual Power (Quid Pro Quo) x2; Improved Abilities, Improved Power (Quid Pro Quo), Improved Recovery, Improved Soak, Lesser Power (Wages of Greed), Minor Virtue (Shapeshifter), Minor Virtue (Tough); Susceptible to Deprivation Qualities: Ambush Predator, Crafty, Good''
''Jumper, Skilled Climber, Thick Fur Personality Traits: Cat +3*, Curious +4, Cruel +3, Deceptive +3, Vindictive +3, Independent +2 Reputations: Evil 3 (local), Strange and double-edged creatures 2 (regional) Combat:  Claws: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +12, Damage -5  Teeth: Init +4, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage -6 Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 2 (villages), Athletics 3 (chase), Awareness 4+2 (humans), Brawl 4 (claws), Guile 2 (playing dead), Hunt 4 (birds), Occitan 4 (conversational), Shapeshifter 4 (human), Stealth 5 (remaining unseen), Survival 3 (home) Powers: Quid Pro Quo, 1 points, Init –10, Terram.  This power creates a cache of gold coins worth approximately 20 Mythic Pounds. The matagot creates this horde in a hidden place, such as under a house or in a foundation, but prefers''
''an isolated location. It parcels out the coins when its adopted family acts appropriately, as determined by the matagot. The coins resemble a local coin, if the matagot has one, but otherwise have a strange, unidentifiable design. CrTe 35 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind (Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 finesse): Ritual Power (35 levels, -3 reduced cost; Note that this power reduces the matagot’s Might Score until it either spends a season in a Magic Aura of 3, or consumes 15 pawns of Animal vis), Improved Power (-3 reduced cost) Wages of Greed, 5 points, Init –6, Corpus  The matagot often reserves this power for those who refuse to release it. This power causes miserable pain which hampers them from regular activities without actually injuring them. PeCo 25 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun): Lesser Power (25 levels) Vis: There are three pawns of Animal vis in the Matagot’s tail. Appearance: A large, dark calico cat flecked with gold, but with tufted ears and dark eyes with a vicious look. Note that the matagot is a specific sort of magical creature, and not a magic cat lineage.''

==Story Seed: Feed Me==

''The Sorginak know of the Lou Carcolh (see opposite page) which lives the hills near Bayonne, at the edge of the mountains, and they avoid the creature. It does not seem to roam too far from its cavern lair and attacks mostly pilgrims when it does. This steady stream of easy meals might be enough to placate the creature for now, but the witches are aware of the''
''threat and closely monitor the situation. Occasionally, troublesome knights, interfering magi, or foolish bandits are led to the cave by one of the folk witches, both to supplement the monstrous beast’s appetite and to eliminate problems. It just so happens the characters have arrived asking too many questions… questions with answers held in the Lou Carcolh’s cave.''

==Lou Carcolh==

''It was a vast creature, lumbering and vicious. Oblivious to us as we hid, its head was like a dragon with a beard of tentacles, a mouth of sword-like fangs. Its neck became that of a snail and its body disappeared within an enormous shell. It left a trail of thick slime in its wake, rolling over the broken wagons as if they were nothing. The mule, however, was not so fortunate, and its cries were quickly silenced after the tentacles shot forth and pulled it bleating into that ravenous maw. I can only hope the monster wasn’t an immature beast. — From the Journal of Acumenis, Ex Miscellanea''
''Magic Might: 25 (An) Characteristics: Cun 0, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str +10, Sta +7, Dex +1, Qik –3 Size: +5 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal, Magical Monster; Greater Immunity (Deprivation); Ferocity (trying to eat people), Homing Instinct (cavern home), Improved Characteristics, Puissant Brawl, Tough; Mute, No Hands; Compulsion (eat people) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Grasping Tentacles), Greater Power (Viscous Travel), Improved Defense (tentacle), Improved Initative (x2, tentacle), Improved Stamina (x2), Improved Might (x5), Improved Power (x3, Grasping Tentacles) Improved Soak, Lesser Power (Sense the Quivering Prey) Personality Traits: Lou Carcolh +3, Rav''
''enous +2, Uncaring +2 Reputations: The Terrible Monster which Eats Travelers 4 (Local Area); Strange Beast of Legend 2 (Local) Combat: Fangs: Init -3, Attack +12, Defense +6, Damage +15 Tentacle: Init +3, Attack +14, Defense +11, Damage +14 Grapple: Init -3, Attack +8, Defense +4, Damage n/a Soak: +11 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–10), –3 (11–20), –5 (21–30), Incapacitated (31–40), Dead (41+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local Region 3 (trade routes), Athletics 4 (moving), Awareness 5 (humans), Brawl 5+2 (tentacle), Concentration 2 (Sense the Quivering Prey), Hunt 3 (people), Penetration 3 (Grasping Tentacles), Stealth 4 (remaining unseen), Survival 4 (finding prey) Natural Weapons: Fangs: (Init 0, Atk +4, Def +2, Dmg +5) Tentacle: (Init 0, Atk +5, Def +3, Dmg +4) Powers: Viscous Travel, 2 points, Init –6, Animal. The lou carcolh slithers over any terrain, unhindered by brambles, debris or any other rubble of lesser size than itself. ReAn 30 R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind (Base 15, +1 Conc, +2 size): Greater Power (30 levels; +5xp Concentration, +10xp Penetration, –1 might cost)''
''Grasping Tentacles, 2 points, Init +2, Animal. The lou carcolh has the ability to extrude its many tentacles to attack up to 100 paces away. Each tentacle requires another invocation of this power. The lou carcolh suffers no penalties to attacks made at this distance. MuAn 45 R: Pers, D: Diam, T: Part (Base 25, +1 Diameter, +1 Part, +2 size): Greater Power (45 MuAn; +5xp Penetration), Improved Powers, (+10 initiative, reduce Might cost -3, +10xp Concentration) Sense the Quivering Prey, 2 points, Init –4, Imaginem. The lou carcolh can sense the presence of creatures by “feeling” the boundaries of the air with its tentacles. This doesn’t permit fine discriminations, and cannot discern between live and dead bodies. InIm 10 R: Per, D: Conc, T: Touch (Base 4, +1 Conc, +1 Touch): Lesser Power (10 levels; +15xp Penetration) Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are five pawns of Animal vis in the lou carcolh’s tentacles Appearance: This strange creature appears to be an enormous, dragon-headed snail, with a beard of nearly a score of tentacles extending implausibly far to grasp prey and pull it toward a maw filled with forearm-sized teeth. A thick shell covered in lumps the size of a man’s head forms its carapace, while its pebbly hide easily turns most weapons.''

|]

==Faith & Flame Mimizan==

''Just outside Mimizan is the residence of Dama of Merinita, the current Praeco of the Tribunal. On the swampy coast on the north side of the lake there is a squat building about three stories high, which the Redcaps call Mimizan covenant, though at Tribunal it is technically considered part of Castra Solis. It was founded in the century following the Schism War by the Praeco and she has maintained it ever since. It is located near the ruins of a Gaulish shrine where ancient priests performed many sacrifices. The site is also very near Dama’s birthplace. After her apprentice achieved her Gauntlet and fled Oleron (where they were living at the time, see The Lion & The Lily), Dama investigated the site while looking for a suitable familiar. She discovered Maju and decided the location would make an excellent covenant. After an extensive discourse with the faerie, they came to a mutual agreement and she later bound it to her using the special spell known to her house (Faerie Chains of the Familiar Slave, Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 90). Under Maju’s counsel she has become more paranoid, more secretive, and more ambitious, and does not like visitors, setting up her covenant to keep most people out. The highest level of the tower is taken up with Dama’s living quarters and laboratory, the second is divided into guest quarters for those who come to see her, and the first is where her servants live and work. The solid block of stone forming the tower includes a basement, but this lowest level is rarely used for anything besides storage. The site has a moderate Faerie aura of 4, centered on a muddy black rock almost entirely buried at the lake’s edge. Besides a surprisingly powerful Aegis of the Hearth (Level 50, cast using Wizard’s Communion and a casting tablet), the site is also protected from curious visitors with a Rego Mentem spell causing anyone without Magic Resistance who steps on the game trail surrounding the site and leading out to the main road to experience a terrifying vision and an irresistible compulsion to flee. For this reason, most of the locals fear the marsh and refuse to go down the small trail leading to it; many ghost stories circulate about the creatures living down that trail. The wild coast and other marshy lands surrounding''
''her tower often have pockets of Faerie aura. There is a copse of scrub trees inland from Mimizan covenant, on the northern side of the lake, where twelve members of the Basque folk witch community and some Ex Miscellanea members of the Order of Hermes meet every year to help Dama and discuss their machinations in the coming months. This area has a Faerie aura of 3. Dama leads these gatherings, initiating many into the mysteries of the Maters and Matrones cult (see Chapter 3: Hermetic Culture, Cults & Factions of Provence). Almost all of them view her as a granddame worthy of great respect, and a few revere her as a saint. One, Rebecca, a folk witch sorgina member of the Order, lives with Dama at her tower.''

==Magi of Mimizan==

''Dama and Rebecca are the only residents of Mimizan.''
''Dama of Merinita''
''Born in 993, Dama’s early memories are a jumble of fragments shattered by Twilight. Perhaps she was the daughter of a Basque folk witch and one of Gascony’s invading Vikings. Her mater was a Greek Merinita (and former Witch of Thessaly) trained as a Hoplite at Val-Negra and Castra Solis, and specialized in the symbolic and sympathetic mysteries of her House. At turn of the millennium, in 1001, just before the Schism War’s outbreak, Dama became her apprentice and the pair hid as guests of the court of the Faerie Queen Oriande la Fée (see Rosefleur, earlier in this chapter). After passing her Gauntlet in 1016, Dama initiated the full path of the Folk Story Magic, and ill-advisedly joined Oriande’s court. By 1061, Dama had taken such risks that she fell into Twilight. Nineteen years later, what returned looked like Dama, and a Quaesitor confirmed that it was Dama, but truthfully it was more a husk of a human born of her hazy patchwork memories, driving ambitions, and deep desires. She vaguely resembled the popular depiction of the Virgin Mary, like an iridescent demigoddess with auburn hair, and ruddy skin. While she''
''remained Dama, or at least everything left of Dama, this Twilight event did more than leave a scar: it completely altered Dama’s life. Upon her homecoming, she received an unusual windfall. She, like many others at the faerie’s court, had sworn to serve Queen Oriande for the rest of her natural life, and according to faerie prophesy, she would be seventy years old when death came for her. Thus, she had been presumed dead, which meant she returned liberated from her oath of fealty. Furthermore, a very elderly man, claiming to be a childhood friend, pressed her to accept a farewell gift, charging her to carry it far away from the faerie’s castle and keep it safe from she who greedily desired it. He called the small, green-black stone, roughly the size and shape of a hen’s egg, a baetylus. While he claimed it would gift Dama with vigor, Oriande would use it as an Orphic Egg, allowing her to complete an apotheosis of great power. While displeased with these developments, Oriande la Fée could not prevent them. Reacting to her brush with the infinity of Twilight and the opportunity for a fresh start with her life, Dama refocused her ambitions. She swore to create a legacy, but she decided make it her own, rather than one for her House. She embarked on four major projects: she trained an apprentice, Marie of Castra Solis; established a covenant at Mimizan; bound Maju as a familiar; and founded a Mystery Cult, the Maters and the Matrones..''
''Rebecca Ex Miscellanea''
''Rebecca has never given up hope she might still find a husband, and constantly watches for a young magus of proper breeding and personality. Open to the idea of a whirlwind romance and swift marriage, she wants to become with child as soon as possible. She might settle for a mundane knight or ship captain, but Rebecca’s upbringing included high standards; her growing powers and proud nature exacerbate this desire. In the meantime, she has taken an apprentice to teach at Mimizan. Young Alexa assists Dama when Rebecca is away. Once Alexa’s training is complete, she intends to Initiate Intuition upon admission to Dama’s cult. For additional details about Rebecca, refer to the insert.''

==Pau==

''Established in the eleventh century by the count of Béarn to defend the fjord of the Gave de Pau river (which begins near the Breach of Roland), it occupies the northern bank, overlooking the crossing with two large, square towers. Many regional shepherds have used this fjord for bringing their flocks into or out of the same mountain pastures since antiquity. Bits of wool collected from brambles along this route generate 4''
''pawns of Creo vis on the spring equinox and 4 pawns of Muto vis on the autumn equinox Set at the foot of the Pyrenees, Pau and the county of Béarn are often torn between the politics of the crown of Aragon and the ongoing conflict of the Albigensian Crusade at its doorstep. While it is not a Cathar stronghold, the previous count of Béarn aided Toulouse and Foix on several occasions and its knights hold no love for the Crusaders. Notably, William Raymond is more active in Aragonese matters, while his son William favors the English in Aquitaine. If your saga''
''follows history, William shifts his focus to the Aragonese when his father dies in 1223 and he attempts to take over the county of Cerdagne. (See Chapter 6: The Pyrenees.)''

==Tarbes==

''Tarbes is the capital of the county of Bigorre, and nominally ruled by Guy de Montfort by marriage to Petronilla de Bigorre. Tarbes currently sees very little noble''

[|

==Rebecca Ex Miscellanea and Sorgina==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +1, Str -2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: –1 Age: 32 (32) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 1 (7) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus, Wealthy; Feminine Gift*, Good Teacher*, Improved Characteristics, Personal Vis Source, Privileged Upbringing, Venus’ Blessing*, Well Trained Folk Witch; Proud**, Waster of Vis; Cabal Legacy, Close Family Ties, Flawed Folk Witch Gift Opening (Animal Ken), Flawed Parma Magica (Animal), Optimistic, Small Frame, Susceptible to the Divine. * Mystery Initiation through Cabal Legacy **	 Mystery Initiations Personality Traits: Optimistic +2. Reputations: Pragmatic +3, Well-informed +2 Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +1, Defense +2, Damage -2 Dagger: Init +2, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage 0 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (birds), Area Lore: Gascony 3 (vis sites), Artes Liberales 1 (astronomy), Athletics 1 (hiking), Awareness 2 (Observation), Brawl 1 (dodge), Carouse 1 (staying sober), Charm 2 (men),''
''Concentration 2 (flight), Craft: Weaving 2 (wool), Cursing 3 (men), Dead Language: Latin 4 (Hermetic Terms), Dowsing 3 (in bog), Flight 3 (at night), Folk Ken 2 (men), Folk Witch Magic Theory 3 (vis extraction), Guile 2 (men), Healing 3 (sword wounds), Living Language: Euskara 5 (description), Living Language: Occitan 4 (conversation), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (Tribunal members), Organization Lore: Folk Witches 3 (Sorginak covens), Organization Lore: Maters and Matrones Cult 3 (Initiations), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 3 (Cursing), Second Sight 1 (seeing invisible creatures), Shapeshifting 5 (birds), Stealth 2 (remaining hidden), Survival 2 (Gascony), Teaching 1 (folk witches) Witch Moon Scars: Gained 5 experience points in Cursing Equipment: bear fetish, clothing, dagger, hare fetish, pots and equipment for brewing potions, raven fetish, stag fetish, wolf fetish. Vis: 15 pawns of Corpus vis kept in a string of animal skulls. Appearance: A mature and attractive Basque woman who wears a number of animal fetishes and generally keeps her hair pulled back and under a shawl. Rebecca dresses as a traditional Basque wise woman, in a dark woolen dress with a wide, bright scarf tied around her waist. Voting Sigil: Rebecca has a wolf fetish which she uses as her voting sigil. Claimed in combat, it once belonged to a rival sorgina.''
''Design Notes: Rebecca was designed using the Folk Witch rules presented in Hedge Magic as a member of Ex Miscellanea Sorgina.''
''Raised in a Basque village, Rebecca’s father discovered a cache of Roman gold and kept it hidden. He used the wealth to provide Rebecca with a comfortable youth and an education. He’d hoped for her to marry one of the minor knights who lived in the region and groomed her for just such a pairing. Unfortunately, Dama’s coven discovered her and encouraged several of the area’s potential suitors to depart on Crusade. The young girl then joined the coven, becoming the primary aide to Dama at Mimizan after her apprenticeship. Rebecca regularly acts as an emissary, messenger, or spy for Dama, utilizing her flight and shapeshifting powers to move quickly and remain hidden. She often travels back to her home village, where she spends time assisting the local whalers by secretly flying overhead. The hunters believe the appearance of her albatross form to be a good omen and cheerfully sail where she indicates. Rebecca also helps young mothers recover from childbirth through potions, but she demands the afterbirth as payment. The folk witch harvests 5 pawns of Corpus vis, her personal vis source, by rendering this material at an ancient hillside shrine on the Spring Equinox. Bordering on pagan, Rebecca has no qualms regarding the Maters and Matrones cult, feeling it is good and just to provide such empowerment to women; after all, doesn’t mortal life spring from women?''

|]
''supervision while Guy pursues the Albigensian Crusade and Petronilla lives in Poitiers to avoid reprisals. With no established seneschal, the municipalities maintain order as best they can with the assistance of the bishop and local clergy. The city spreads across the left bank of the Adour river as six walled villages surrounding the bishop’s palace and cathedral. Legends state that the Queen of Ethiopia, Tharbis, a Cushite woman Moses spurned, founded Tharbes. While the oldest ruins are Roman, an ancient ring and a polished walking staff of African Moringa''
''wood have been passed down from bishop to bishop. The staff currently rests in the offices of the bishop, a curiosity he doesn’t use but keeps nearby. The ring is a simple loop of gold set with amber and kept in a small soapstone box. When some one gifts the ring and tells the recipient to think of a subject, the ring causes the recipient to slowly forget that subject. Intelligence checks are made every full moon against an Ease Factor of 7 (+1 per failed check). After five failed checks, the ring’s wearer forgets the subject matter. This is a non-Hermetic effect, requiring an Intellego Mentem lab''
''total of 30 and at least a season of research to decipher. Intellego magics reveal that the ring contains four pawns of Mentem vis. It acts as an arcane connection to the spirit of Tharbis for those with the proper magics. Knowledge of the ring’s power was lost when one of the bishops gave it to his successor on his deathbed, telling him to never forget its power.''

==Lourdes==

''Lourdes sits on the banks of the Gave de Pau river, with numerous caves and quarries pocking the surrounding countryside. Boasting a large, square tower, the fortress stands to the east of the walled town, on a rocky promontory. It served as the ancestral home of the counts of Bigorre with foundations dating back to the Roman era. Those fighting in the Albigensian Crusade consider it a vital defensive structure in the region, key to controlling the salt mines of the local valleys and strategically more important than Tarbes. The castle was the site of a miraculous conversion and victory against the Moors. In 778, Charlemagne besieged the Moorish commander, Mirat, for months. An airborne eagle unexpectedly dropped an enormous trout at the feet of the Moorish general, who then flung the fish down to the attackers. Charlemagne thought this meant the defenders had enough food to survive far longer and broke his siege. Turpin, the bishop of Puy, left Charlemagne’s camp to speak with Mirat. He convinced Mirat that the bird and Charlemagne’s departure were miracles from the Virgin Mary, miracles worthy of submission. Mirat agreed and visited the Black Virgin of Puy to offer gifts. Inspired by the beauty there, the general surrendered the castle and converted to Christianity. On the day of his baptism and in honor of the virgin roses at the shrine, Mirat took on the name of Louerda (the rose in Arabic), which was then given to the town. On the anniversary of this baptism a Divine aura of 2 exists at the top of the castle tower. The Romans valued the local towns, such as Bagnères-de-Bigorre, for their invigorating natural baths. Lourdes has one such spring, located in a bend of the river, said to have healing properties. Collecting''

[|

==Sarda Whale==

''“…dangerous business catching a whale. Better for me to go on the river than to go hunting whales on the open sea… I prefer a fish I can kill, rather than a fish which could kill not only me but also my fellows with a single blow.” — From the Journal of Jean-Michel, Former Companion of Castra Solis''
''Characteristics: Cun –3, Per –2, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +19, Sta +5, Dex +2, Qik –4 Size: +9 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Reserves of Strength, Tough; Poor Eyesight. Qualities: Aquatic, Defensive Fighter, Hardy, Imposing Appearance (x3), Tireless, Tough Hide, Vocal. Personality Traits: Patient +3, Cruel +2, Hungry +2 Reputations: Creature which drowns sailors 3 (coastlines)''
''Combat: Tail: Init –4, Attack +10 Defense +2, Damage +24 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, –1, –1, –3, –3, –5, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–14), –3 (15–28), –5 (29–42), Incapacitated (43–56), Dead (57+) Abilities: Awareness 2 (food), Brawl 4 (dodge), Music 3 (bellowing), Survival 5 (coastlines), Swim 5 (coastlines) Natural Weapons: Tail (Init 0, Atk +4, Def +2, Dmg +5) Appearance: Most consider this enormous fish to be quite strange, with a sweet scent evident from its vast mouth and a thick, pebbly hide rather than scales. Strangely, its tail lies flat, instead of vertically. Bad tempered, they are known to smash or overturn boats when harassed by fishermen.''

==Story Seed: Time is Short==

''The current count, William Raymond, is an old man who rules from Tarbes while his son William administers Pau. The count’s rights to Pau are contested because his brother’s widow, Petronilla de Bigorre, married Guy de Montfort—Simon de Montfort’s son. If your saga follows history, this conflict finds resolution in April of 1220, when Guy de Montfort is killed in a Crusade-related skirmish with the forces of the count of Toulouse near Castelnaudary, a market town in the Toulousain. If the characters forge an agreement with the younger''
''William and engineer or even execute this skirmish, they might find a way to establish a covenant in the towers overlooking the river fjord. In exchange for guarding the crossing, maintaining the village, and collecting reasonable tolls, William would ignore their curious behavior and could focus on supporting his father’s politics. However, this relationship is dangerously close to serving as a court wizards, and might prove troublesome if charges are brought against them at Tribunal.''

|]
''the waters of the first spring melt yields 4 pawns of Creo vis. South of Lourdes is the village of SaintSavin. It hosts an abbey and convent, and is notable for the fact that Roland, one of the Twelve Peers of Charlemagne, once stayed there while Charlemagne’s army besieged Lourdes. In exchange for the hospitality, Roland fought and killed two giants. Much to the monks’ dismay, the giants Passamont and Alabaster lived close to their priory, preying on their flocks. These faerie giants did not die, however, as their essence was concentrated in the skull fetishes Roland left behind. They now live deeper in the Pyrenees, giving rise to tales of mountain pastures and passes hunted by a tribe of vicious brutes.''

==Castra Solis==

''Symbol: A flaming yellow sun''
''When the Christian wizard known only as Kaeso joined House Flambeau in 809, his base of power was an ancient underground temple to Mithras in the hills along the river Garonne. He and many of his followers lived nearby throughout the early years of Hermetic history, though Kaeso attended Tribunal as a member of Val-Negra, and spent most of his time after joining the Order of Hermes in the Pyrenees with his master Apromor and the Founder Flambeau. There, under their guidance, Kaeso established an elite group of soldier-magi known as the Hoplites, originally named for their simple tactic of casting Pilum of Fire from be''
''hind a mighty Parma Magica. Kaeso and his Hoplites sharpened their spears fighting against the sahirs of Iberia, joining others to take over for the Founder in 820. However, perhaps because of the creation of House Ex Miscellanea in the intervening years, this next generation of Flambeau warriors popularized the phrase “Join or Die,” with emphasis on “Join.” The First Hoplite, the merciful Kaeso, brought many former enemies over into House Flambeau. At some point during these years, Kaeso initiated into the inner circle of the Legion of Mithras, and so most of the other Hoplites and many of his new followers also joined the cult. Between 840 and 850, attacks on local villages increased, and certain isolated magi living in the interior of Gascony complained at Tribunal. By 850, the Flambeau magi of the region incorrectly believed that the so-called Order of Odin had reignited a war through the sudden series of raids on the western coast. They mistook the individual vitkir supporting their clans and relatives for members of a larger organization, all sharing an aggressive and unified vision, finding an enemy where there were merely raiders. Wrongly convinced of the scope of this danger, Kaeso returned to Bordeaux to fortify his temple with the full support of House Flambeau and his Hoplites. He established this new military base as a covenant called Castra Solis, or “encampment of the sun,” adopting as its symbol the image of the sun quartered into four parts. With little time for the Hermetic cohort to do more than prepare quick magical fortifications and throw together hurried structures, Bordeaux fell to the northern pagans two years later, and they now held the city. For the next five years, the Hoplites tried to decisively end the war with sheer force. However, in those early days of the Order, the limits of the Oath in regards to meddling with mundanes had not been thoroughly tested. The Flambeau were wary of attacking anyone but the rival magicians and those of their followers who were clearly their enemies. Setting fire to the occupied city, for example, was out of the question. Unfortunately, the wily rune wizards amongst the vikings were very accomplished at setting traps and ambushing the magi, killing many Hoplites in early snares, including Kaeso.''
''In 855, the remaining Flambeau magi decided that a counterstrike against the invaders required a more secure base. Bordeaux’s proximity to the front lines demanded that they establish a fortified covenant further north in Anjou, known as Sinapis. Castra Solis remained a mobile collection of tents, from which the Flambeau magi could strike quickly, but Sinapis became a more traditional Hermetic stronghold. To outsiders, Castra Solis appeared to be an extension of Sinapis, rather than the other way around. The supposed war of magi versus vitkir in southern France smoldered more than 120 years, although the mundanes chronicled it as a series of raids, rather than an established occupying force. At the Grand Tribunal of 997, the Hoplites announced the eradication of the vikings from the Tribunal. In summary, they reported that the rune wizards and their Danish troops established three significant settlements on the coast, and all three were burned to the ground. Meanwhile, the Hoplites established many outposts for seeking out the rune wizards, where they cast an Aegis of the Hearth to create a safe place from which to fight. Some of these redoubts later became full-fledged covenants, although their wartime origins left them considered extensions of Castra Solis. One such example is the tower at Mimizan. The idea of Hoplites as elite fighting magi specialized in dealing with other wizards became widespread during these battles, and they soon spread outside of the West Frankish and Iberian Tribunals. They also ceased to be primarily associated with the veneration of Mithras, although many of them continued to be. These many years of battle brought magi from several other Houses into the ranks of the Hoplites, so they were no longer exclusively considered a division of House Flambeau. Many of these recruits were powerful magi from Houses Tremere and Guernicus, but also included a few outliers such as a particularly influential Greek maga of House Merinita. Although they were especially affected by the attacks, and in fact lost several of their members in raids by the invaders, the magi of House Diedne did not participate in the war. The growing piety of the Mithraeans at Castra Solis during the many years of fighting “the pagans,” as the invaders were''
''called, caused the Diedne to feel they could not join without betraying their religious strictures. This probably increased the suspicion prominent Hoplites harbored for the Diedne; regardless, the Schism War began only a few years later. In the opening salvo of hostilities, Diedne saboteurs compromised Val-Negra after capturing the Mercere Portal network at Harco, beginning a fearsome assault. The Flambeau Primus, himself a Hoplite of some distinction during the previous war, returned to Castra Solis to command the House’s efforts, seemingly abandoning Val-Negra. Even many years after its foundation, Castra Solis was still more military camp than covenant, and a perfect location from which to coordinate strikes against the many covenants they had spent the last century defending. Most of the Gascon Diedne fled, abandoning their sites and in many cases setting them afire before they could be taken by their former sodales. For the first time since the founding of the Order, Castra Solis experienced a period of rest and recovery after the Diedne’s defeat. The new Primus of House Flambeau continued to live there, and began improvements. When the Normandy Tribunal divided in 1103, Castra Solis led the faction joining the newly-expanded Provençal Tribunal. Along with them came the magi of Sinapis, who abandoned their previous site to join the domus magna, as well as other smaller covenants in the area, including Mimizan. Since then, Castra Solis has remained stable and a powerful political force in Gascony and the Provençal Tribunal.''

==The Magi==

''Home to seventeen magi, most magi of Castra Solis belong to House Flambeau. They range in age from newly gauntleted magi to elderly, frail magi like Garus, the Primus. In the last twenty years, two older magi living at the covenant have died, both of them members of House Guernicus (and the Chief Quaesitor of the Tribunal at the time), and both of them younger than Garus — but everyone is reasonably certain he is next, including him. Beatrice, the acting Chief Quaesitor, is nominally a member of this covenant, but has been spending her time in Arelat, at the Coenobium.''
''Garus of Flambeau''
''Age: 135 (Apparent age: 80) Personality Traits: Political +3, Steadfast +2, Mentoring +1''
''Garus has always been very interested in the politics of the region, and his time as Primus of House Flambeau has brought about a great change in its focus and direction. Born and apprenticed in England, he came to Gascony in 1155, immediately after Henry’s marriage to Eleanor of Aquitaine. When Vancasitum, the previous Primus, disappeared in the latter years of the twelfth century, Garus won the primacy due largely to the support of the milites, the Flambeau Hoplites who continued to live at Castra Solis after each of the wars. Under Garus’s influence, they began to think of themselves more as knights in service to their liege.''
''Marcus Minor of Flambeau''
''Age: 119 (Apparent age: 60) Personality Traits: Pious +3, Charismatic +3, Crafty +2''
''The next most senior magus is Marcus Minor of Flambeau (so named because at one time there was an elder Marcus living here, who went by Marcus Major). Charismatic and pious, he is the primary Mystagogue of the Legion of Mithras cult at Castra Solis. Insiders know that Marcus and his followers are the true leaders of the covenant. Garus is not even part of the inner circle of the Legion; he has devoted too much of his life to the Provençal political landscape and supporting his milites. Marcus has continued to support the Legion’s traditional Christian focus, and because of his influence the warrior magi at Castra Solis have come to feel something like members of a holy order of knights.''
''Troya of Flambeau''
''Age: 53 (Apparent age: 40) Personality Traits: Bold +3, Considerate of horses +3, Proud +2, Curious +1''
''Another established magus of note is Troya of Flambeau, who has devoted her life at Castra Solis to the study of magical''
''mounts, particularly horses. She keeps a stable of equine beasts specially bred and trained to tolerate Gifted riders, using techniques she has discussed with other like-minded magi in Hibernia via correspondence. The horses learn maneuvers particularly useful for magi in battle, such as charges and leaps, allowing the rider to cast Touch range spells on a target or grab hair to be used as an Arcane Connection and then retreat quickly. Many of her spells transform both horse and rider into another shape simultaneously. Tradition holds that most of her animals descend from the same stock as Bayard, the magical horse given to Renaud de Montebaun by his cousin Maugris the enchanter, four hundred years before.''
''Marie of Merinita''
''Age: 113 (45) Personality Traits: Unaging +3, Political +3, Artistic +2''
''Marie of Merinita, Filia Dama, lives in Poitiers in a manor house officially considered part of Castra Solis, even though it is within the lands typically considered part of the Normandy Tribunal. She attends Tribunal in Provence, and is actively seeking to extend the border of the Provençal Tribunal by spreading the culture and language of southern France throughout Aquitaine. Dama trained Marie as her single apprentice about a hundred years ago. In 1220, she is quite a famous figure within House Merinita. Marie of Merinita, who sometimes calls herself Marie of France, is a headstrong and independent maga who has managed to avoid being fully coopted by her mater, mostly because she became enamored of Eleanor of Aquitaine. She idolized the former queen, seeing herself as a twin sister or Hermetic analogue, despite the possibility the queen never even knew who she was. Marie claims to have accompanied Eleanor on the Second Crusade, participating in her bare-breasted Amazonian procession, serving as her magical bodyguard and protecting the queen with her Parma Magica. She also claims she accompanied the young queen on the journey back to Aquitaine after the annulment of her marriage to Louis. She believes she traveled to England once Eleanor married King Henry and attended her court, and even wrote many romances and fables to entertain the nobles while there.''
''However, it is possible none of this actually happened; Marie may have followed a faerie queen in Arcadia who resembled Eleanor and harvests vitality from the many stories about her. When Eleanor died, Marie returned to Poitu and now grieves her loss. She turned to Hermetic politics and dedicated herself to bringing the rest of Aquitaine into the Provençal Tribunal. Marie has Faerie Blood and achieved the second level of initiation of the Maters and Matrones before departing. This enables her to initiate others and perform ceremonies, though she rarely does. She has trained several apprentices, who have since gone abroad into Mythic Europe. Dama wants her to become a matron, and strives to convince her to take the next step, but Marie remains mostly a disappointment to Dama. For Marie, Dama was her harsh instructor and taskmistress, and the relationship is cold. She has a greater respect for Eleanor than she ever will for Dama.''
''Beatrice of Guernicus, (Presumed) Chief Quaesitor''
''A troubled woman, Beatrice is genuinely determined to do right, but with the crusade and all the deep hostility in the Tribunal, it is not clear any more what that is. Her pater was the previous Chief Quaesitor, Tibaut, and it is assumed that she will take over for him. She is young for Chief Quaesitor, since her predecessor died of old age just last year (as did his predecessor five years before, though he was even older than her pater), and would probably like to pass her authority to another member of her House if a better candidate appears. She is registered as part of the covenant of Castra Solis, but she has taken to spending all her time in the Arelat of late, possibly because of a falling out with the Primus of House Flambeau or the leaders of one of the Hermetic organizations based there.''

==The Covenant==

''Since the Schism War, the covenant has been made to resemble a wealthy manor house or Roman villa, perched in the lime''
''stone hills located about halfway between Bordeaux and La Reole along the River Garonne. Many vineyards and fields surround the site, but these do not produce wine or wheat, and instead serve as tourney fields for the many events House Flambeau sponsors. The Magic aura surrounding the covenant only has a strength of 3. Castra Solis does not have a Mercere Portal, as the Primus never felt it needed one. It has a fine library with a focus on military subjects, and many enchanted devices available to defend the House when necessary. (For more information about the library or some of these devices, see Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 13–14.) At the base of the cliffs below the covenant is a riverside network of caves, protected by its Aegis and also warded against intruders. These oyster-encrusted arches lead upwards a short way to a large underground temple, Kaeso’s mithraeum. Or rather, it is the cave most Flambeau believe to be his ancient Roman temple to Mithras. In fact, the true temple actually sits directly beneath the city of Bordeaux (see Bordeaux, earlier in this chapter). This replica was built when Bordeaux fell into enemy hands, and the other remained secret to ensure its power endured undiminished. Influence of the Christian milites and other pious magi living at Castra Solis over the years has given the Mithraic temple beneath the covenant a Divine aura of 4. Essentially a church, the services conducted here for the younger initiates of the Legion are very similar to the sacraments, including baptism, communion, and last rites. Hidden stairs lead from the covenant’s library to the chambers behind the temple. A series of tombs, where the bodies of fallen milites rest honorably in the holy ground, also occupies the caves. Former Flambeau Primus Entisimon is buried there, though Kaeso is not.''

==The Serpent’s Venom==

''As described earlier, the Praeco Dama seems to be a skilled elder maga who has accomplished many of her goals. However, in truth, she placed herself in the thrall of her familiar, Maju, a powerful supernatural being''
''who twisted her ambition and sympathies to its service. The faerie Maju bound her spirit to itself as surely as it was bound to her and through that connection it subtly corrupted all of her accomplishments. Maju was originally worshipped as Teutates, and the Gauls sacrificed captives to the faerie by drowning them at the muddy rock in the lake at Mimizan, creating a Faerie aura of 3 there. An inscription still exists, buried in the muck. Some tossed silver rings into the waters as votive offerings and Maju granted them gifts of wisdom and prowess. After the Romans left the area, the highly cognizant Maju shifted its mask, taking the aspect of Sugaar and seeking out Basques to the south to satisfy its desires for Vitality and its unwillingness to surrender mortal worship. When Christianity became more widespread, and pilgrims began to cross the Gascony wilderness en route for Compostella, Maju returned to its old territory to play a part in Oriande Le Fee’s tortuous games and faerie court politics. Dama first saw Maju there, and later sought it out as a familiar. Maju’s history and counsel led Dama first into sin and blasphemy and then skirted the edge of infernalism as it encouraged her to incorporate the chthonic Sorginak into the foundation of her cult, dressing it in the subversion of the Black Madonna. Dama drove Marie away when she prioritized the cult over her filia and refused to incorporate the aspects Marie claimed Eleanor taught her on Crusade. Dama made Mimizan a frightening and illfavored place on Maju’s advice, claiming the enchantment serves to protect the covenant grounds from Crusaders; only a small game trail from the southwest remains unaffected. Redcaps know to approach using this trail. The Maters and Matrones have become (at least at the upper echelon) a coven of tainted witches, subverting the Christian faith, and teetering dangerously close to demonic corruption. And yet, Dama truly is a friend to all women; it is her weakness. She gives freely and generously to all members of her cult, and she has never murdered a woman. The fact the acting (and likely new) Chief Quaesitor is a woman worries her slightly. However, she doesn’t think Beatrice will pursue the investigations of her pater, and believes she has convinced the young Guernicus to join the cult, with the hopes her disappointed ideals will make the Maters and Matrones more ap''
''pealing. The fact Dama created the Longevity Ritual for Alazais’ mundane companion has served her well, securing the Praeco the political support necessary to sidetrack official investigations thus far. While Dama constantly meddles with the Basque Sorginak, she hasn’t taken any more apprentices, as Maju thinks it is too risky. However, she is always available to initiate new cultists, as the mysterious aspects of being a Mystagogue suit her perfectly. She is very good at it, and while she does it without revealing her identity, Initiates strongly suspect who she is. She is also openly pagan, not Christian, which makes the magi of Castra Solis less sure of her, and gives the magi of Aedes Mercurii hope she is at least somewhat impartial.''

==Fruit and Seeds==

''Player characters could become involved in Maju’s plotting through investigating Dama’s past actions, or be caught up in her future plans.''
''Sins of the Past''
''Discovering what happened to the last two Chief Quaesitors lies at the heart of a saga focused on Dama and her cult. For storyguides who wish to make the Praeco and her ambitious machinations a serious storyline, it’s important to know the details of''
''this tangled web. By 1210, Dama’s cult had come to the attention of the Chief Quaesitor, Senex; whether this was out of fear of a potential conflict between the Black Madonna Cult (and by extension, the Order) and the Church at a time when the Albigensian Crusade still burned Cathars, or from a personal desire to become the Praeco himself, is unclear. Senex simply disappeared. He supposedly went into a village to investigate something, and never returned. In truth, he waited until Dama departed for akelarre with the Sorginak and infiltrated Mimizan. However, Dama returned unexpectedly, discovering him within her sanctum— either searching for details regarding the cult, or planting damning evidence. The hampering power of''

[|

==The Guide==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +1, Str –2 (1 aging point), Sta +1 (1 lost to Decrepitude), Dex –2, Qik –1 (1 lost to Decrepitude) Size: 0 Age: 193 (60; Longevity Ritual Modifer total: 23; +15 Ritual, +5 Baetylus, +3 Living Conditions; –19 Age Penalty) Decrepitude: 1 (8) Warping Score: 8 (9) Confidence Score: 1 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Charm Magic**, Cthonic Magic, Feminine Ceremony (major), Feminine Gift#, Major Magical Focus (controlling human beings)**, Story Magic**, Sympathetic Magic**; Affinity with Rego, Arcane Lore, Dark Magic#, Faerie Magic*, Skilled Parens, Venus’ Blessing#; Driven (establish a legacy)**, Evil Destiny, Favors (Oriande le Fee)**, Proud, Twilight Prone; Fear (spiders)**, Oath (protect women)**, Weakness (women in need) # Twilight Virtue * House Virtue **	 Mystery Initiations and Ordeals Personality Traits: Driven +4, Proud +3, Optimistic +2 Reputations: Ambitious 3, Ancient 3, Pagan 2, Reclusive 2, Secretive 2, Possible Diedne Maga or Sympathizer 1 (Order of Hermes) Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +2, Damage -2 Dagger: Init +0, Attack +2, Defense +2,''
''Damage +1 Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Provence 4 (vis sites), Area Lore: Pyrenees 3 (vis sites), Artes Liberales 3 (astronomy), Athletics 1 (hiking), Awareness 3 (observation), Bargain 3 (faeries), Brawl 2 (dodge), Carouse 1 (recovery), Charm 4 (women), Code of Hermes 4 (Tribunal procedure), Concentration 6 (comprehending Twilight), Craft: Weaving 2 (wool), Cthonic Magic 5 (using Infernal vis), Dead Language: Latin 5 (Hermetic terms), Divine Lore 1 (female beings), Etiquette 3 (faeries), Faerie Lore 4 (female beings), Faerie Magic 7 (experimentation), Feminine Ceremony 4 (group casting), Finesse 5 (Rego), Folk Ken 3 (women), Guile 3 (women), Infernal Lore 3 (female beings), Intrigue 4 (long-term plans), Leadership 4 (inspiration), Living Language: Basque 4 (conversation), Living Language: Danish 5 (descriptions), Living Language: French 4 (conversation), Living Language: Greek 4 (conversation), Living Language: Occitan 4 (conversation), Magic Lore 3 (female beings), Magic Theory 10 (experimentation), Organization Lore: Folk''
''Witches 3 (Basque Covens), Organization Lore: Maters and Matrones Cult Lore 8 (initiations), Organization Lore: Merinita Cult 5 (initiations), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 4 (Tribunal members), Parma Magica 7 (Mentem), Penetration 3 (Vim), Philosophiae 2 (ceremonial magic), Stealth 1 (remaining hidden), Survival 1 (Gascony), Swim 1 (rivers), Teaching 3 (single student) Arts: Cr 21, In 14, Mu 14, Pe 16, Re 20, An 13, Aq 15, Au 13, Co 20, He 15, Ig 12, Im 13, Me 17, Te 11, Vi 17 Twilight Scars: As the result of three comprehended Twilight experiences prior to her long disappearance, she gained Feminine Gift, Venus’s Blessing, and Dark Magic. Her Twilight experience of 19 years destroyed most of her personal memories, leaving her with a raw patchwork of events prior to 1001 and almost no distinct details. Two later Twilight experiences, one for six years and one for nine years, left her resembling the popular depiction of the Virgin Mary, glowing with a faint, unnatural aura and with auburn hair and ruddy skin. Vis: She carries 15 pawns of Faerie Vim vis in three gold rings. She can easily acquire 25 more within a week through her contacts in her mystery cult. Equipment: Courtier’s finery, dagger, gold rings (4), stone pendant, good boots, walking stick (club) Encumbrance: 0 (0)''

|]
''the Aegis, combined with Revoke the Protection of Bonisagus and Maju’s viper-form poison, spelled the doom of the Guernicus. Dama stripped him of goods, and Maju shifted form into a drake and consumed the body. Certainly, Senex had forfeited immunity by entering her sanctum uninvited, making the legality of his death with regards to the Code of Hermes unquestionable. However, Dama felt the Maters and Matrones cult could not risk the attention an investigation would bring, and told no one. When Senex failed to attend the 1214 Tribunal, Tibaut became acting Chief Quaesitor, a position confirmed when Senex remained absent for two years. He investi''
''gated Castra Solis and learned Senex told no one his destination before he last departed. Tibaut entered Senex’s sanctum and discovered the first threads of the cult investigation in laboratory notes. After another season of research, he knew a cult was the focus of his predecessor’s last investigation, but he didn’t know which one, or why. He became convinced that Senex was dead, and he shared this suspicion with Beatrice, his filia. In 1217 he began investigating cults within the Tribunal, though he was hampered by the events of the Albigensian Crusade. Tibaut considered the members of the Hermetic mystery cults, the Cathars, possibly the Sorginak, as suspects. He sent''
''sealed correspondence to Beatrice via an Iberian Redcap, attempting to leave a secure trail. Ambushed by Crusader camp followers, the Redcap perished from his injuries in the wilderness along the Via Domitia; the letter remains in his satchel. Tibaut continued his investigation, but an offhand comment from Luc of Ara Maxima Nova alerted Dama to his intentions. The fellow Merinita complained about the Quaesitor’s pressing questions regarding incidents with any members of the clergy or pilgrims using the Via Domitia. Luc and Tibaut fought a Certamen over the answers. While Luc lost, he provided the most cursory replies and later told Dama what arts to''

[|

==The Guide, cont’d==

''Spells Known: Mighty Torrent of Water (CrAq 20/ +36) Circling Winds of Protection (CrAu 20/ +34) Incantation of Lightning (CrAu 35/ +34) True Sight of the Air (InAu 15/ +27) Purification of the Festering Wounds (CrCo 20/ +41) Restoration of the Defiled Body (CrCo 25/ +41) Cheating the Reaper (CrCo 30/ +41) Curse of the Unruly Tongue (ReCo 5/ +60) Lifting the Dangling Puppet (ReCo 15/ +60) Seven-League Stride (ReCo 30/ +60) Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35/ +60) Trap of Entwining Vines (CrHe 15/ +36) Repel the Wooden Shafts (ReHe 10/ +35) Pilum of Fire (CrIg 20/ +33) Ward Against Heat and Flames (ReIg 25/ +32) Veil of Invisibility (PeIm 20/ +29) Image from the Wizard Torn (ReIm 30/ +33) Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10/ +33) Weight of a Thousand Hells (CrMe 25/ +38) Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20/ +31) Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe 25/ +37) Veil of Haunting Terror (ReMe 35/ +54) Wall of Protecting Stone (CrTe 25/+32) Earth Split Asunder (ReTe 30/ +31) Piercing the Faerie Veil (InVi 20/ +31) Enigma’s Caress (CrVi 20/ +38): As “Enigma’s Gift,” (ArM5, page 157) but inflicts two Warping points instead of one. Sight of Active Magics (InVi 40/ +31) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 10/ +33) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 15/ +33, mastered with Multicasting) Faerie Scourged from Memory (PeVi 15/+33, mastered with Multicasting): As “Demon’s Eternal Oblivion,” but affects Faerie''
''aligned creatures. Revoke the Protection of Bonisagus (PeVi 20/ +33, mastered with Magic Resistance) Gather the Essence of the Beast (ReVi 15/ +37) Circular Ward Against Faeries (ReVi 20/ +37) Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 35/ +37, mastered with Magic Resistance) Familiar Chains of the Faerie Slave (ReVi 45/+37) New Spells: Revoke the Protection of Bonisagus; PeVi 20; R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Individual: Destroys the Parma Magica of the target if 30 + stress die exceeds the targets Ability score x5,. Must Penetrate to take effect. (Base 10 (Dispel effects of a specific type, level +4 Magnitudes), +2 Voice) Veil of Haunting Terror; ReMe 35; R: Road, D: Moon, T: Group: Shifts the targets’ mental state to an unnatural desire for fearful flight from the road. The target simply wants to run away in terror. As a cosmetic effect, each affected person sees their own worst fear manifesting along the road. The fear fades naturally. (Base 4, +2 Road, + 3 Moon, + 2 Group) At Mimizan, Dama walks a game trail surrounding the grounds and leading out to the main thoroughfare to define this road. Appearance: An older, attractive Basque woman who wears rich, contemporary garb that would not be out of place in a royal court. She generally keeps her hair pulled back in a''
''bun and under a traditional Basque shawl. Her face is lightly lined and her healthy skin is complemented by her silver hair still showing a tinge of the auburn locks she had in her youth. She wears a finely wrought dagger, a hen’s-egg-sized green-black stone on a gold chain, and several gold rings, and leans on a walking stick. Her Twilight scars of a faint, amber nimbus and ruddy complexion are more apparent in the evening, when she almost seems transparent and ghostlike. Casting Sigil: The faint scent of lilies is present when Dama casts spells. Voting Sigil: Dama has an ivory carving of a dragon’s head gilded in red gold which she uses as her voting sigil. It was a gift from her father, the only thing she possesses from before her apprenticeship.''
''Design Notes: Dama has (45 + 75 + 45 + 240 + 60 + 50 + 5100 =) 5615 experience points. She has spent 2250 in skills, 50 in mystery initiations, 50 in five seasons crafting a talisman she later sacrificed, three Longevity Rituals (30), one season spent developing a Longevity Ritual for Alazais’ lover, three seasons gathering vis (30), 150 spent developing Mimizan, 150 spent training her apprentice, and 150 spent crafting Initiations. She has 1960 spent in Arts and 795 in spells.''

|]
''avoid when challenging Tibaut to Certamen. Realizing the route Tibaut likely traveled, she gathered Maju and prepared an ambush as the Guernicus neared the road to Foix. The attack occurred within an abandoned house; feigning an emergency, she lured him inside where Maju waited in a viper form. The Praeco shattered Tibaut’s Parma Magica with Revoke the Protection of Bonisagus, but Maju’s poison failed to quickly incapacitate the Quaesitor. He burst from the house and into the road before collapsing. The pair attempted to re''
''trieve him, but fate intervened. A large group of Crusader knights witnessed the man’s collapse and rode to aid him. Divinely Blessed and resistant to Dama’s magics, they carried the dying Tibaut to the nearby Abbey of Saint Hilaire, thinking him to be a monk. The monks said that Tibaut was not one of theirs, but took him in anyway. In their care, he succumbed to the poison. As they thought about events afterwards, the Crusaders formed the belief that Tibaut had been a Cathar, and returned to raid the abbey''

[|

==The Serpent==

''Order: Duke of False Gods Infernal Might: 45 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str +4, Sta +5, Dex +4, Qik +4 Size: –2 Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Charm, Puissant Guile; Overconfident Personality Traits: Deceptive +6, Proud +6, Clever +3, Persuasive +3, False God Demon +3, Trustworthy –5 Reputation: Duke of Hell 7 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 7 Combat: Fist: Init +4, Attack +9, Defense +9, Damage +4 Or as appropriate for physical form. Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 7 (astronomy), Awareness 5 (identifying magi), Bargain 7 (pacts), Brawl 5 (Dodge), Carouse 5 (appearing drunk), Ceremony 3 (summoning), Charm 5+2 (first encounters), Dominion Lore 5 (angels), Etiquette 5 (magi), Faerie Lore 5 (mannerisms), Faerie Magic 3 (experimentation), Folk Ken 4 (humans), Guile 7+2 (appearing mundane), Magic Theory 4 (learning spells), Music 6 (guitar), Infernal Lore 6 (demons), Intrigue 6 (longterm plans), Philosophiae 5 (ceremonial magic), Teaching 4 (magic), Theology 3 (contradictions) Powers: Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: Can take on the form of a humanoid be''
''tween Size –2 and Size +2. He often chooses the form of a troubadour with a guitar or a small, winged sprite. Shapeshifter, 0 points, Init 0, Animal. Can take on the form of animals (even fantastic creatures, such as a griffon or a drake) between Size –2 and Size +2. He often chooses the form of a dove, a hare, or a snake depending on the circumstances, but he is not limited to those forms. A Pretty Cloak to Wrap it Within, up to 9 points, Init 0, Imaginem. Maju may create Imaginem effects up to 9th magnitude. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim. Cruelty, Greed, Pride. Coagulation, 5 points, Init –1, Corpus. May take on a physical body in 45 rounds of manifestation, or may dissolve with a round of concentration. Lend Senses, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem. While in physical contact with another being, the demon can lend that being either its hearing or sight. This lasts indefinitely, but if the eavesdroppers witness a display of religious sentiment, it is immediately terminated. Shroud the Stench of the Pit, variable points, Init +3, Vim. The demon can conceal the Infernal nature of any other supernatural power or aura, making it appear to be Magical or Faerie instead. It may also be used to remove all stench of the supernatural, making things appear wholly mundane. This power can shield a creature or effect from the Sense Holiness/Unholiness ability. This Power costs Might Points equal to the original cost of the Power being concealed, or Might''

|]
''in retribution for the monks’ activities. The monks of St. Hilaire have occasional contact with some of the Tribunal’s Redcaps, trading various goods in exchange for bookmaking materials or blank quires. Through this route, the news of the death eventually traveled back to Castra Solis, which attempted to make arrangements to recover the man’s effects. They met with no success as his body already lay buried in the Abbey’s cemetery and the monks remained in a state of disarray after the Crusaders’ attack. Tibaut’s belong''
''ings sit locked in a chest in the abbot’s office, as the Albigensian Crusade remains particularly active in the region. When he failed to meet Beatrice at their agreed upon time, she approached Dama with her suspicions regarding Tibaut’s possible demise. Maintaining her composure, the Praeco suggested Beatrice fulfill his office until the matter could discussed at Tribunal in 1221. Honored by this suggestion, Beatrice accepted the post and Dama informed the Redcaps.''
''Schemes of the Present''
''This leaves Beatrice as the temporary Chief Quaesitor until her confirmation at the next Tribunal, and Dama extremely paranoid about her cult’s activities. She doesn’t know who else is aware of the investigations, but she secured the tacit political support of Alazais and the Coenobium when she secretly provided a Longevity Ritual to the Chief Redcap’s close mundane companion. Dama believes the covenant’s clout will easily derail any motion she needs buried at least once, and she stores this influence against need. She does not know if Tibaut managed to confide in the knights or the monks of the abbey before dying. She wants to grow her cult, and cement its gains, but worries about whom to initiate. Maju pushes her to bring more Sorginak into the fold, looking to corrupt their beliefs in Mari and Sugaar while syncretizing them with the followers of the Black Madonna in small coastal villages, and subverting the male domination of the Church. The faerie points out her failing Longevity Ritual; these last few years took their toll and that she no longer looks as young as she once did. It needles her about her estranged relationship with her filia, Marie, and about the small, isolated nature of Mimizan in the shadow of Oriande Le Fee’s Rosefleur. “Time is running out,” it hisses and Dama may leave no legacy behind if she cannot increase cult membership to a self-sustaining level. Aggressive recruitment may alert the Church to her activities, involve a player character folk witch in the conspiracy, or drive the Sorginak to seek out political allies or Trianoma magi willing to thwart or distract the Praeco. There are many ways to bring player characters into the story. Protendus of Tremere’s investigations may uncover Dama’s machinations where he thought to find Tytalan intrigue, causing him to enlist Tremere characters to aid him in exchange for their sigil. The characters may discover the remains of the dead Redcap while traveling, allowing Beatrice to finally receive her pater’s correspondence, indicating his suspicions, but not before Dama invites her to join—thereby making her complicit. Dama may inadvertently reveal her connection to Senex’s death by attempting to engage a newly arrived Verditius character to render''

[|

==The Serpent, cont’d==

''Points equal to the magnitude of the Infernal effect if it does not cost Might Points. This Power lasts for as long as the Power it is masking. This means Maju normally has 42 Might Points to spend, as it regularly cloaks the Infernal aura at Mimizan to conceal its past. Wealth of Nations, 3 points, Init 0, Terram. The demon can summon riches; each use of this Power can create wealth equivalent to up to 45 pounds of gold. This wealth can be of any form— gold, gems, rich tapestries, ivory, etc—but it always has intrinsic value, rather than being valuable because of its utility (a roomful of grain, for example). This wealth is not created, it is instead summoned from somewhere else, chosen by the demon usually for the greatest corrupting effect. This might be a royal treasury on the other side of Europe or the purse of the man standing nearby. His Master’s Voice, variable points, Init +1, Vim. The demon can summon other demons or corrupt beasts to its current location. This costs one Might Point for every point of Infernal Might of the being summoned, so is used sparingly. The demon has no control over the demon he has summoned. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim. The demon can duplicate the effect of any non-ritual Intellego spell for the cost of 2 Might Points. It may also gain a morsel of future knowledge, understanding the most immediate consequences of any one future action. Weakness: Protected Group (Those who have given alms that day)''
''Vis: There are 9 pawns of Vim vis in the demon’s eyes. Appearance: As Dama’s familiar, Maju often appears as a small, winged faerie sprite, though he is also capable of shifting forms between a hare, a snake, or a dove, as most appropriate to the situation. In private, he prefers the shape of the snake as it allows him to wrap around Dama and tantalizingly threaten her with strangulation.''
''Maju has played a very long game with Dama. It started as part of the pagan religion of the Gauls, then subverted the pagan religion of the Basques in the region (Maju often takes the form of a snake and has Dama call it Sugaar when dealing with Basques, and many of the folk witches who serve Dama believe they are the god and goddess of their faith). Eventually, the sins the creature perpetuates will taint it so deeply that it will transform into an infernal being. Until then, Maju is trying to corrupt both Christianity and the Order of Hermes. It does this by setting up conflict between men and women, making women think they have a special, purer version of their faith than the mens’. Through Dama’s cult the creature has taken aim at the Virgin Mary. To Maju, the Black Madonna represents a dark feminine goddess in perfect opposition to the masculine God of the Dominion, who is different and more exalted. It seeks to make women desire glory beyond their place in the Christian hierarchy, to want to teach and preach, and to worship Mary (or multiple Marys) instead of Christ. To do this, it teaches great power to those who serve it. Like the serpent of Genesis, it corrupts mankind through Eve with forbidden fruit.''

|]
''the vis from several lesser enchanted items, or by trying to sell those items abroad for vis to power the new Longevity Ritual she will need within the next 12 years. Rumors at Beatrice’s confirmation during the 1221 Tribunal suggest, with Tibaut’s death, that Senex did not simply disappear, but suffered from foul play. A player character Quaesitor may have been apprenticed to Senex, or mentored by either Quaesitor, and come to Provençal to discover the truth behind their mentor’s death from the lab notes in Tibaut’s sanctum. The inner circle of Dama’s cult meets within the confines of the Médoc, the realm of a capricious faerie queen; Oriande Le Fee may offer hints and leads to characters willing to play her games. Merinita or Bonisagus characters who seek out Dama as a mystagogue might be subjected to curious interrogations and unrelated tests as she satisfies her paranoia about their intentions— actions which may unintentionally drive them to begin their own investigations. All the while, Maju presses Dama, whispers intrigue and power to the other Sorginak of the cult, encouraging their corruption while losing bits of its faerie nature until it is dis''
''covered at the core of the plot—at which time it becomes the demon listed in its statistics section. (If statistics for Maju are required prior to this point, use the presented statistics but drop the obviously Infernal powers, such as Obsession, Coagulation, Shroud the Stench of the Pit, Wealth of Nations, or His Master’s Voice.) If the characters decide to seek out and challenge Dama’s conspiracy, many options exist. Dama can be brought to salvation by showing her the rotten, befouling nature of her familiar. She might provide the connections allowing the characters to defeat Maju. Deep down, Dama is obsessed with leaving her legacy, and currently convinced that her every attempt has failed, or is failing. Despite her experience, her power, and her position in the Tribunal, she feels her goals are unattained. This belief must be reversed if there is any hope of her redemption. If characters bungle and reveal their investigations, crippling Dama’s ambitions, Maju murders Dama and seizes control of the cult, or even convinces her to turn the cult against the player characters—possibly engaging them in a shadowy and unannounced magical war with the cult’s''
''hedge tradition members or through other means, such as attempting to lure them into the Lou Carcohl’s lair, or sending them into the heart of the Crusader army to question the knights who rescued Tibaut while Sorginak use their spirit walking powers to alert the camp followers. Left to her own devices, Dama may just create an enduring but ultimately subdued Black Madonna movement which quietly spreads through France, to the Balkans, Belgium, Germany, Ireland, Italy, and even Malta, but ultimately forgets its founder in devotion to the Virgin Mary and leaves her control as she strives to gain more time in this life. While the Baetylus protects her from Aging Crises (see the nearby insert), she visibly ages five years over the next ten years, making her more desperate. Knowing she must renew her Longevity Ritual before 1232 if she is to have any hope of success, she might largely ignore her Praeco duties and strive to increase her Magic Theory to 11 (an increase of 1), and her Faerie Magic to 10 (an increase of 3). Increases in her Creo and Corpus Arts are absolutely required. She might decide to sacrifice Maju to power her own Longevity Ritual, requiring its Faerie vis in order to ensure sufficient supply, and possesses the spells to do so. Her expansive knowledge of mystery initiations may cause her to revisit her Merinita roots, exchanging the secrets of Story Magic to player characters for gifts of Faerie vis. News from the Theban Tribunal might drive her to gain the Blood of Medusa to augment her ritual (The Sundered Eagle, page 62). All of this rests precariously on the tipping point of the role the storyguide wishes Dama to play in the saga—she may be the tragic maga who left a long series of nearly great but merely adequate accomplishments in her wake, whose only real legacy lies in her amazing long life, or she may become the examplar of a maga consumed by ambition, who disregarded the costs of her endeavors and ultimately left only a tarnished name and dire warning to those who failed to consider the consequences of their actions. And if, by chance, she manages to defeat the player characters, Maju transforms into a demon intent on carrying her soul to Hell, the Sorginak are sundered and retreat from Hermetic culture, and the Provençal Tribunal suffers another disheartening blow to the culture already ravaged by the Crusaders marching across the landscape.''

[|

==The Stone==

''No ordinary stone, the baetylus contains a shard of the very beginning of Creation, possibly a fragment of Sol Invictus, maybe the essence of Cronus, and because of this primeval nature, it has several miraculous properties. Firstly, it infuses the bearer with life — as long as she is touching it, Dama gains a +5 to any aging roll, and does not suffer aging crises. Secondly, it constantly purifies Dama and everything she touches or consumes, much as if she possessed the Greater Purifying Touch Virtue, so she suffers no ill effects from poison. Thirdly, it gives Dama Visions (like the Supernatural Flaw), usually associated with her own impending danger or danger to the stone. For Dama, this has unfortunately only heightened her sense of paranoia. The path of the fabled stone to Dama’s possession is very murky. While Maju may know some details, and Oriande even more, differing tales recount the stone’s history. According to the one Dama believes, the stone plummeted through the sky and fell into the lake of Toulouse,''
''where it sank to the bottom and glowed with a magical shimmer sometimes visible on moonless nights, inspiring stories of a golden treasure hidden below the waters. Later, local pagan wizards of antiquity, many of whom eventually became Hermetic magi of House Diedne, brought it to the surface. One of their number — perhaps the famous Maugris, wizard-advisor to Charlemagne, unnaturally long-lived due to the stone’s effects — kept the stone when the Schism War broke out, and hid in Oriande’s court. Sworn to serve the faerie queen as long as he lived, he grew weary of life in hiding and came to desire more than anything to pass on and join his brothers and sisters in the next life. But he also knew Oriande would gain the stone if he ever let it out of his control, and he did not believe Oriande deserved such power — in fact, he had visions she would surely become evil and corrupt if it passed into her inhuman hands. Entrusting the stone to Dama allowed him to escape, in more ways than one.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
