''Welcome to the Languedoc, the strifetorn lands south of France! Here is the home of courtly love and troubadours singing of ladies and heroes, where gender roles and traditions differ from the rest of Mythic Eu''
''rope and the dominance of the Church suffers from the independent, sometimes heretical, good men and women of the Midi. Further south, beneath the shadow of the Pyrenees and away from human settlements, dwell creatures from Basque folklore and even the occasional giant amid the foothills or woodlands. Historically the stronghold of House Flambeau, the martial House’s dominance has declined, even while they strengthened their commitment to noble codes and principles. Religious conflict tears the culture of Provence asunder, threatening the fields and towns of the Languedoc with the flames of war.''

==How to Use this Book==

''This book is primarily designed for troupes whose saga is based in the Provençal Tribunal, but sagas set in neighboring Normandy in particular may be drawn into the conflict and stories of the region, perhaps even migrating to the southern lands permanently in the wake of the havoc''
''wreaked by the Albigensian Crusade. Magi from more distant Tribunals may visit the Languedoc region as part of their official duties, during quests for Mystery initiations or in search of the magical treasures of fallen covenants and ruined Diedne enclaves. These chapters provide background and details most characters would be expected to know about their region—but many of the overarching saga themes, story seeds, and game statistics throughout are intended for storyguides only and reading though this supplement without prior discussion may seriously affect your enjoyment as a player. This sourcebook is a guide and reflects only one possible vision of the Provençal Tribunal in 1220. Any or all of the Hermetic elements presented here can be omitted or adapted to suit your saga. Likewise, although care has been taken to accurately present the complicated history, politics and geography of the region, this is not a history text. Your troupe must decide how closely to follow history and which additional resources help create the most rewarding stories.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Note on History and Myth==

''Much of the history presented here draws on real historical events, but allows the rich myths of southern France, the exaggerations of the troubadour songs, and the imagination of Basque storytellers to take precedence. Some liberties have been taken to enhance story potential. This is a land of dragons, where witches lurk in village covens, shepherds command the winds and herbs, and the legacy of Rome lies buried just beneath the bustle of daily life. Many mythic sites spring from more contemporary legends, while others have been woven from fantasy to make the tapestry more vivid.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
