''The region once known as “Gallia Narbonensis,” or “Septimania,” and now locally called Narbonnais, has been settled by the remnants of the Roman Empire for over a thousand years, witnessing many conflicts, and watching the intrigues of countless nobles. This is where Hannibal marched on Rome, where the Imperial legions began their conquest of Gaul, and where Charlemagne halted the advance of the Moorish armies into Europe. In the thirteenth century, Narbonnais plays host to the struggles of the count of Toulouse, the ascension of the king of Aragon, the interests of the king of France, and the atrocities of the Albigensian Crusade. Two active covenants operate in Narbonnais, Ara Maxima Nova and Stella Durus.''

==Local Nobility==

''Two men shape the mundane politics of the Narbonnais: Raimond VI, count of Toulouse, and James, king of Aragon. Until his death in 1218, Simon de Montfort was also a major player, and the impact of the Crusade is yet to fully play out.''

==Territory of RaimondVI==

''The counts of Toulouse administered the city of Toulouse for the Merovingians and the Carolingians, and this became a hereditary title supposedly owing fealty to the King of France but in truth existing as an independent realm commonly called Toulousain. It is covered in greater detail in Chapter 4. The counts have interests beyond that region, however, making them major players in Narbonnais as well.''

==County of Lodeve==

''Part of the Aude river district, Lodeve is dominated by vineyards and herds of sheep. The region’s Corbieres Mountains are the first foothills of the Pyrenees. The primary settlement in the county is the town of Lodeve, a popular stop on the Way of St. James to Compostela. The Knights Templar maintain a fortified, walled town a day’s ride to the north of Lodeve. The cathedral is dedicated to Saint''
''Genesius, a third century clerk from Arles who was martyred in 303, a victim of the persecution of Diocletian. Saint Genesius’ beheading is represented on the keystone of the apse. He is the patron saint of clerks and notaries. The preserved body of Fulcran, the former bishop, is buried within the cathedral’s catacombs. Fulcran died in 1006 and is also considered a saint for his purity. The cathedral has a Divine aura of 5. The Grandmontine Order, which follows the Rule of St. Steven, maintains a priory a few miles outside Lodeve. Overlooking the countryside from atop a tall hill in the middle of an oak forest filled with dolmens and Roman ruins, the Priory of St Michel de Grandmont hosts pilgrims traveling the Way of St. James. It has a Divine aura of 4, and on the night of the summer solstice there is a Faerie aura of 4 around the largest dolmen on the grounds.''
''St. Thibery''
''A 450 ft. segmented arch bridge crosses the Herault River in the town of St. Thibery as part of the Via Domitia. Its Roman origins are questionable as the spans are inconsistent with other imperial construction. Is this the handiwork of a faerie or a demon?''

=Narbonnais=

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Covenants of Narbonnais==

''Current Covenants: Ara Maxima Nova, Stella Durus Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Himinis’ Forge, Uxellodunum, Two Diedne covenants in the Massif Central whose names and locations are lost.''

==Vis Site: The Ancient Wine Press==

''Cut into the living stone near a vineyard, this large rectangular trough produces 4 pawns of Herbam in the pomace of the must—the solid portion of seeds, skins, and stems—if the grapes of the first harvest are stomped barefoot. Repeating the process with the last harvest yields 6 pawns of vis, but they are vis Infesta. In centuries past, an angry mob''
''believed they discovered a pagan ritual being performed, and killed the young women thought to be participating. In truth, the women had been working on the last batch of grapes when fauns seduced them. The maids were caught just after lying with the faeries. Unconvinced by their pleas, the crowd stoned the girls to death.''

|}

==Vassals of Toulouse==

''The counts of Toulouse have many vassals whose holdings are found in this region.''

==County of Béziers==

''The country of Béziers has been a holding of the counts of Carcassonne since 1034. From 1194 to 1209, Béziers was ruled by Raimond-Rogier Roger Trencavel, who was also the count of Carcassonne, the count of Albi, and the count of Razes, he owed fealty to both Peter II of Aragon and Raimond VI of Toulouse. He died a prisoner of the crusaders in 1209; see “Carcassonne” in Chap''
''ter 4: Toulousain. Like much of Provence, Béziers is a land of temperate climate with forested rolling hills.''
''Béziers''
''Built as a colony for Roman veterans during Augustus Caesar’s reign, Béziers exports white wine. Its walls were built with stones from the old amphitheatre, and the River Orb borders its ruins on three sides. Trencavel relied heavily on the Jews of the city to administer daily operations. As a stronghold of the Cathars, the city suffered greatly during the Albigensian Crusade. It was nearly burned to the ground, and while reconstruction began in 1215, there is still a long way to go. The new cathedral’s construction utilizes the foundations of the old structure, which had stood since 1130. The tall limestone church of the Madeleine''
''that served as the viscount’s chapel is one of the city’s few remaining structures. It was from the steps of this building that Arnaud Amaury uttered the infamous order “Kill them all; God will know his own.” The other surviving house of God, the church of Saint Aphrodise, who Christianized the city, is built over a 3rd century necropolis. After the butchery committed by the crusaders, the entire city suffers under an Infernal aura of 7, which rises to 8 on the anniversary of the massacre (July 22nd) and drops to nothing during Advent and Lent.''

==Duchy of Narbonne==

''This used to be a hereditary office of the count of Toulouse referring to the rulership of the region, but Raimond VI was dispossessed of the duchy during the Albigensian''

==Old Man of the Bridge: The Tempter of St. Thibery==

''Order: Tempters (tenetores) Infernal Might: 15 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre –1, Com +2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: +0 Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Charm, Puissant Guile; Weak-willed Personality Traits: Greedy +5, Selfish +5, Deceptive +3, Tricky +3, Tempter Demon +3, Cowardly +2 Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Fist: Init +3, Attack +3, Defense +5, Damage +3 Walking Stick (club): Init +4, Attack +6, Defense +7, Damage +6 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 3 (humans), Brawl 2 (club), Charm 4+2 (first encounters), Concentration 3 (maintaining concentration), Folk Ken 3 (humans), Guile 5+2 (reducing risks), Penetration 1 (Rushing Wages of Greed) Powers: Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus. The demon can obtain a material form, which it may dissolve at will.''
''Obsession, 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim. The demon can impose the Obsession Trait of Greed. (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31–32) Envisioning, 1/5 points, Init +0, Mentem. The demon may appear in the dreams of a sleeping target (which costs 1 point), or make the target experience a waking dream or vision (in which case it costs 5 points). The demon twists the dream, causing the target to imagine life in terrible poverty with extreme needs. This causes the victim to make a Brave Personality roll against an Ease Factor of 9, or suffer natural abject terror and lose a long term Fatigue level. Change Form, 0 point, Init 0, Corpus. The demon can change the shape of its manifestation at will, to whatever human or animal form it desires. The Old Man of the Bridge may shift into a raven or cause his bundle of firewood to disappear. Trove Just Beyond Reach, 4 points, Init +1, Imaginem. The Old Man creates a phantasm of a cracked strongbox spilling silver and gold coins into the riverbed and lying in plain view of the bridge. The waters around it look deep enough to leap into safely, but clear and very calm. CrIm 20 R:''
''Sight, D: Sun, T: Individual. (Base 3, +3 Sight, +2 Sun) Rushing Wages of Greed, 8 points, Init –1, Aquam. The Old Man creates an area of swiftly flowing, churning water with a strong undertow. Escaping the area requires Swim rolls with a –6 penalty, or the swimmer suffers deprivation from drowning (ArM5, page 180). ReAq 40 R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Part. (Base 5, +3 Sight, +1 Conc + 1 Part +2 Size) Weakness: Compulsive (The demon can do nothing until it has finished counting coins thrown on the ground and placing them in its purse) Vis: There are three pawns of Vim vis, in the demon’s money purse. Appearance: The demon manifests as a wizened old man in peasant’s garb, carrying a large bundle of firewood sticks tied to its back. It moves with the assistance of a cane and carries a lantern. It attempts to convince travelers to dive into the river while it watches their possessions—asking for half of what the victim recovers and using its powers to amplify greedy feelings. As the dupe leaps into the river, the demon uses Rushing Wages of Greed, possibly drowning the individual.''
''Crusade. Since Simon de Montfort’s death in 1218, the title of duke of Narbonne has belonged to Arnauld Amaury, the current archbishop of Narbonne and papal legate. The title of viscount of Narbonne, which refers to the secular ruler of the city of Narbonne, is separate from the ducal title. A famous viscountess of Narbonne was Ermengarde, who ruled from 1132 to 1194. Five “judgements of love,” as detailed in the authority on courtly love, the treatise De Arte Honeste Amandi by André le Chapelain, are attributed to her. She corresponded with and encouraged many troubadours, creating a strong artistic tradition in Narbonne that has survived despite the Crusade.''
''Narbonne''
''Known for its tolerant attitudes, in its time Narbonne has both acted as the capital of Visigothic Septimania and belonged to the Emirate of Cordoba. The city boasts both a vital port and fishing community on''
''the Aude River and serves as a cultural center for the troubadours. A well-known population of Jewish scholars operates several schools at this crossroads of the Via Domitia and the Via Aquitania. The cathedral of Saint-Just-et-SaintPasteur de Narbonne currently lies in a ruined state from neglect. The viscount of Narbonne and the Archbishop feuded over control of the city for decades in the 1100s. Currently, the Archbishop controls the western half, and the viscount oversees the eastern portion and the commune, or bourg. This conflict has led to the neglect of many churches, including the cathedral. This has left the city with a weak Divine aura of 2, which rises to 3 on the feast days of its patron saints. The basilica of St. Paul-Serge, which is built on the site of a 4th-century cemetery established by Constantine, retains a Divine aura of 5 at all times. The Abbey of St Mary of Lagrasse, which lies about two days’ ride west of the city, is still influential in the region. The abbot of Narbonne, Nimphridius, estab''
''lished the monastic community in the 7th century according to the Benedictine rule. It was elevated to the rank of abbey in 779 and enriched quickly thanks to the sponsorship of Charlemagne and donations from neighboring lords. It acquired lands, castles, priories and other assets. For example, in 1115, one of the viscounts of Narbonne, Aimery II, donated the village of Le Lac to the abbey to resolve a conflict with the archbishop. During the 12th century it ruled over a large territory spread through the dioceses of Toulouse and Béziers and the county of Urgell, but the Crusade has caused its decline.''

==County of Nimes==

''A hereditary holding of Toulouse since the ninth century, the county of Nimes is the eastern march of the count’s lands. Full of rolling hills, streams, and forested regions with a pleasant Mediterranean climate, it''

==101 101==

''has a rich abundance of natural resources like cork, grapes and olives. The city of Nimes is known for its textile industry.''
''Nimes''
''Some claim this city was founded by Heracles’ son, Nemausios, around a healing spring. The administration of Nimes occupies the old Roman amphitheatre, an enormous structure capable of holding 16,000 people, which also acts as a refuge in times of danger. An order of the viscount’s knights — the Knights of the Arena — and the bishop’s palace complex are also housed within the structure’s apartments. Legends suggest the tunnels beneath the arena connect to the amphitheatre in Arles, which has also been converted into a fortress. The arena enjoys a Divine aura of 3. Two other major Roman edifices still dominate Nimes. The first stands nearly 20 paces high and overlooks the city from its highest point: the Tour Magne is an eightsided, three-story tower which incorporates the last remnants of the Roman walls. The second, the Maison Carree, was originally a temple dedicated to Apollo where judges would gather, and now serves as offices for the four consuls who represent the city. It sits on a podium with six columns supporting a portico on either end, a perfect example of a Roman temple. Nestled within a lacuna, there is a lingering Faerie aura of 1 here, which increases to 3 on February 9th, the ancient date of the Festival of Apollo.''
''The Bramabiau Gorge''
''In hills between Millau and Nimes, the river Bonheur plunges into a large cave in a cliff-face. After traveling along a subterranean gorge which includes six waterfalls, it reemerges from another large cave opening as the Bramabiau (Occitan for “Roaring Ox”), and continues down a box canyon toward the coast. Entering from the lower cavern, one can delve into the various passages. In a side tunnel, just past a waterfall, there are fetishes and gallery paintings which might be studied for Insight into cultic Fertility Magic (Ancient Magic, page 54). This passage has a Magic aura of 3, and 4 on nights of the full moon.''
''Grotto of Faeries''
''South of the Bramabiau Gorge, but still tucked into the hills between Millau and Nimes, an underground river also flows through the back of this deep cavern. Several large galleries, called “cathedrals” by the locals, sink nearly 200 paces down into the rock and require a difficult climb down to the floor. A group of lesser nymphs (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 71) dance and sing to the genius loci spirit of the river. They are the source of the sounds of flowing water often emanating from the mouth of the cave. The entire cave system has a Faerie aura of 3.''
''The Nemausian Spring''
''This spring near Nimes is said to have been established as a shrine dedicated to the son of Heracles by Gauls before the conquest of Julius Caesar. Others claim it to be the ancient altar once consecrated to the local magic spirit known as Volcae, a being venerated by the indigenous tribes until the Romans’ arrival. A spirit still resides here, though greatly weakened by the spread of the Dominion and nearby seat of the bishopric in the converted Arena of Nimes. It produces three pawns of Creo or Aquam vis in the form of very clear, very small pools of steaming water which well up every summer solstice.''

==March of Provence==

''The March is ruled by Raymond Berenguer IV, who is also the count of Provence. This forces the count of Provence to owe fealty to both Aragon and Toulouse.''
''Avignon''
''The city of Avignon stands in the March of Provence, rising up behind the tall ramparts of a double wall and overlooking an impressive bridge across the Rhone river, which flows along the northern urban border. The castle stands on the remains of a Roman castrum and the town center hosts a thriving community of craftsmen and tradesmen’s guilds. As of 1200, the consuls declared independence from Toulouse and''
''the Holy Roman Empire, establishing a republic. It is described in greater detail in Chapter 8: Arelat.''

==County of Rodez==

''The county of Rodez was created from part of the old county of Rouergue, and was initially an appanage of Toulouse, until it was seized by the ancestor of the viscount in 1112. The House of Millau ruled Rodez in unbroken succession through the 13th century. The current count’s father, Hugh II, sponsored the abbey of Bonnecombe. The current count of Rodez, Henry I, plans to take the cross and leave on Crusade. His son, Hugh, is only eight years old, and his father plans to leave him here, under the case of his mother is Algayette, heiress of Guy, lord of Scorailles. The House of Millau is a great supporter of the troubadour movement and Rodez is considered its heart. Hugh II and Henry I are both known as patrons of multiple troubadours. (Henry was preceded as count by two short-lived half brothers, Hugh and William.) The Knights Templar kept five separate towns within Rodez, sold to them in order to fund the count of Toulouse’s participation in the First Crusade. The fortified villages of La Cavalerie, La Couvertoirade, and Saint-Jean d’Alcas, and the commanderies in Saint-Eulalie de Cernon and Viala du Pas de Jaux all support Templar operations in the area, and have since the mid-12th century. Guillaume de Saunhac is tutor to the current commander of Sainte-Eulalie-de-Cernon. He becomes the Master of the Knights Templar in 1245.''
''Rodez''
''Known for the contentious relationships between the bishops of Rodez and the count, large double walls divide this agricultural trade center into sectors of authority. It is located at the confluence of the Aveyron and Auterne rivers on the Plateau de Segala. Constructed of red sandstone in 1000, the western wall of the Rodez Cathedral is part of the city’s external defenses and boasts two towers. It has a Divine aura of 5. Other notable buildings include the Bishop’s Palace''
''with its tall tower, and the church of Saint Amand; its choir holds sixth century tapestries representing the miracles of Amand, the patron saint of all who brew beer. St. Amand’s church enjoys a Divine aura of 4.''

==Territory of James of Aragon==

''The king of Aragon also holds a great deal of land in this region.''

==County of Gévaudan==

''Held by the crown of Aragon since 1112, this domain was previously part of the diocese of Mende, and the bishop of Mende attempted to retake control of it repeatedly in the 12th century. It has eight barons who resisted the bishop’s rule, despite the fact that King Louis VII granted the clergyman temporal power over the area with the Golden Bull of Gévaudan. These barons are sworn to James. The northern portion of this realm includes some of the more rugged parts of the Massif Central. Sparsely populated, it is renowned for its vicious and cunning wolves.''
''Montpellier''
''This city was established by the counts of Toulouse in 985 after pirate raids drove the population further inland, and grew in prominence through the 12th century as a spice trading center with a rich tradition of tolerance for Cathars, Jews, and Muslims. It is built on two hills — Montpellier and Montpellieret, with frequently steep streets connecting them. A wall, the Tour de la Babote, surrounds the city, and a castle overlooks it. William VII of Montpellier established the school which was recognized in 1220 as the University of Montpellier, famous for its studies in medicine (and detailed further in Art & Academe, page 109). Marie of Montpel''
''lier, the city’s hereditary ruler, married Peter II of Aragon in 1204 and gave birth to James there in 1208. This alliance confirmed Marie’s claim to rulership and allowed the city to claim a charter which included a tradition of annually selecting twelve governing consuls.''

==County of Millau==

''Millau became a part of the crown of Aragon through the same marriage that incorporated Gévaudan in the early 12th century. Later, Alphonso II granted the town of Millau a consular charter, allowing consuls to levy taxes and enforce laws. Located at the confluence of the Tarn and Dourbie rivers, Millau has a 17-span Roman-era bridge crossing the Tarn—one of the biggest such bridges in Mythic Europe. Its presence places the town on a significant trading route. The region was a major source of pottery in the Roman Empire and still has a thriving industry in 1220. The Roman ruins, however, are primarily on the opposite shore of the Tarn, and are mostly forgotten despite a Magic aura of 3. Local craftsmen are also renowned for excellent leatherworking and for exporting the Roquefort cheese they make in caves dotting the surrounding hills. Countless enormous, ancient stone tables and standing stones, called dolmens and menhirs, are scattered across this area, attesting to its pagan roots. They are largely ignored by the locals, believed to be the homes and gathering places of faerie creatures. Faerie auras of 2 to 4 can be found at these sites, with stronger creatures lairing at more powerful auras. The Eglise Notre-Dame-de-I’Espinasse, the church of Millau, supposedly keeps a fragment of the Crown of Thorns as its relic. It has a Divine aura of 4.''

==County of Roussillon==

''Roussillon derived its name from Ruscino, a small fortified place where Gaulish chieftains met to consider Hannibal’s request for a conference. Although a very agricultural region, it is known for its vineyards and woad production. Woad is processed to create a light blue indigo dye used in clothing. The viscount even has a few small iron mines at the foot of the Pyrenees, and a small gold mine near Saint-Jean-Pla-de-Corts, but it does not produce much. When Viscount Gerard II died without heirs in 1172, rulership passed to Alphonso II of Aragon by a prior agreement with Gerard II and his nobles. Alphonso then made his brother Sancho the viscount. Sancho, supported by his son, Nuno, acts as regent for and occasionally conspires against James, who currently lives in Zaragoza. As this is part of the border with Catalan, many fortifications have been built throughout the region. Controlling the head of the Tet valley, the Castle Rodes sits on a high granite spur. The southern port town of Collioure serves as a departure point for many crusaders, including the Knights Templar, who built a castle overlooking the bay in 1207.''
''Perpignan''
''The capital of the county, Perpignan was founded in the ninth century and became a partially self-governing commune in 1197. The traditional industries are wine, olive oil, cork, wool, leather, and iron. It is built along the banks of the Tet river, the largest waterway in Roussillon. High, thick walls surround the city, and the viscount maintains a compound including a chapel, hospital and castle, the Chateau de Rous''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Wolves of the Massif Central==

''The wolves hunting in the wilds of the Massif Central are not mere beasts, but a small tribe of shapeshifting werewolves who prey on unfortunate travelers. They make their home in an ancient, Gaulish cave shrine with a Magic aura of 3. Can the''
''hunters be tamed and their lair transformed into a covenant? The lack of neighbors means such a community could develop in seclusion from the bloody Albigensian Crusade, but may face difficulties acquiring necessary specialists and rarer supplies.''

|}
''sillon. The castle’s 20 pace round tower dominates the site, and the hospital and chapel are both dedicated to St. John the Baptist. The hospital’s mission is to serve the urban poor of Perpignan. The Order of Poor Sisters, or Poor Clares, operates in the city, working to establish a convent and living by Franciscan tenets.''

==Vassals of Aragon==

''James of Aragon controls some part of the region through his vassals.''

==County of Foix==

''The counts of Foix served the counts of Toulouse in the 11th and 12th centuries, but Raymond Roger I, the fifth Count of Foix, a troubadour and a relative of Raimond VI of Toulouse, was imprisoned by the Bishop of Urgell for a time in 1203, before being''
''freed by Peter II of Aragon and swearing fealty to him. Raymond Roger I is famed for his generalship, chivalry, fidelity, and affection for haute couture. He is not just a patron of troubadours, but an author of verse himself. Although he is not a Cathar, Raymond Roger I married one and fought against Simon de Montfort in the Albigensian Crusade. Charlemagne established the town of Foix. The Chateau de Foix, a castle built upon a seventh century fortification, served as a refuge for persecuted Cathars during the Crusade. It overlooks the town with its large, round tower. The castle withstood several crusader assaults and the rock beneath it is rumored to be honeycombed with caves. Technically a part of the Pyrenees Marches, Foix is quite active in the lands of Toulousain and Narbonnais. The monastery of the Canons Regular of St. Augustine, which was established in 1104, houses the skeletal relics of St. Volusien, the patron saint of Foix who was kidnapped and tortured to death by Visigoths. A substantial structure, it is built with red sandstone and includes a church with three naves. The monastery serves as the spiritual and social center of Foix, and enjoys a Divine aura of 4.''

==County of Provence==

''Raymond Berenguer IV rules the county of Provence in 1220, having escaped Templar captivity, married Beatrice of Savoy, and consolidated his inheritance. The land has seen Italian, Arabic, Frankish and now Catalan rulers. The river Durance acts as its border with the lands of Toulouse. Throughout this region, cathedrals and abbeys built in the 12th century often have fortress-like qualities to serve as protection for residents from pirate raids. The area is detailed further in Chapter 8: Arelat.''

==Local Flavor==

''These groups, places, and professions represent aspects of life common within Narbonnais.''

==Moorish Raiders==

''Beginning with the Umayyad conquest of Iberia in the eighth century, through the 12th century and to the present day, Moorish pirates have roamed the waters between the Straits of Gibraltar and Sicily like wolves. Primarily based in the Maghreb, from cities like Algiers, Marrakech, or Tangier, they plunder Christian Iberia, southern France, in particular Narbonnais, Italy and Sicily. They also operate out of the nearby Balearic Islands, with a brief cessation in 1115 after the Balearic Crusade, only to resume in the following year. Recently, the Italian city-states, the Norman Sicilians, and the Spanish kingdoms of Aragon and Castile have increased their grip on the Western Mediterranean, but they have not eliminated the pirate threat. One cannot journey from the Catalan Sea into the Ligurian or Sea of Sardinia without threat of attack and fear of slavery, which encourages travel in collected flotillas of vessels for added safety. As discussed in City and Guild (page 87), this area can be passed by Moorish vessels, magical assistance, or with a story.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Crown of Thorns Fragment Relic==

''The Crown of Thorns relic is a fragment of the larger crown in Constantinople and kept in a small, wire-mesh cage made of gold on a fine golden chain. The relic consists of a portion of the rush with three pairs of thorns. It acts as a regular relic (ArM5, page 48), with a Faith Score of 3''
''and the saintly power to Cure Blindness (Realms of Power: The Divine Revised, page 52). However, it is rarely drawn from its reliquary as the church priest has no desire to risk damaging it. The relic is paraded before the congregation as a part of the celebration of Lent.''

==Vis Site: The Abandoned Mine==

''While quarrying stone or collecting tailings from a small abandoned mine, covenfolk discover a vein of iron or gold, perhaps with a pawn of vis evident. More surprising, every hundredth cartload of ore removed from the mine by hand has 2 pawns of Terram vis. The vis isn’t present if the ore is removed magically. It isn’t apparent how deep the vein runs, or whether''
''the process of mining, rather than the ore itself, invests the vis in the site. Will the conditions of the mine prove dangerous to covenfolk unaccustomed to working underground? Will the vis run out if the ore vein is exhausted? The natural resources might be a welcome addition to the covenant’s coffers, but will the new mining activity draw the attention of the local lord?''

|}

==Jewish Scholars==

''Arles, Montpellier, and Narbonne hold yeshivas, or Jewish religious schools, as described in Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition (pages 129–130), interpreting and recording Talmudic thought. Several respected rabbinical authorities and kabbalist mystics studied in Narbonne, including Moses ha-Darshan in the 11th century and Moses ben Joseph ben Merwan ha-Levi, who many considered one of the foremost Jewish mystics of his age, in the 12th. Referred to''
''as Hachmei Provence, or “the wise of Provence,” these yeshivas helped establish the literary styles and pedigree which still endure as a scholastic standard within the Jewish religious community.''

==Knights of the Order of Aubrac==

''A small group of knights dedicated to guarding pilgrims traveling southwest along the Way of St. James to Compostela, and''
''southeast toward Rome, was established in Aubrac at the Dômerie d’Aubrac in the 11th century and adopted the rule of St. Augustine in 1162. It maintains a number of satellite hospitals, called “commanderies,” in the communes of Bozouls, Millau, Nazac, and Rodez. The Order of Aubrac maintains a competitive rivalry with the Hospitallers, who would like to absorb them, but have been unsuccessful thus far.''

==Traveling Troubadours==

''While discussed regionally in Chapter 2, the local focus of troubadour activity is the county of Rodez, a fiefdom of the county of Toulouse. The viscount of Rodez, Henry I, is an established troubadour and he is encouraging his children to maintain his interest. Early troubadours came from the nobility, but over time, troubadours sprang from every walk of life. Fulk of Toulouse began his career as a troubadour, going on to repent and enter the clergy, eventually becoming the bishop of Toulouse in 1205 and involving himself in the Albigensian Crusade.''

==Via Domitia==

''Ancient even when the Romans paved and regularized its route, locals believe Heracles walked the path of the Via Domitia when he traveled through the region to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Rampaging Golem==

''Servants of skilled kabbalists, Divinely blessed golems rarely act beyond the scope of their direction. However, when the grandson of the mystic who created it is unjustly lynched by a mob for a crime he did not commit (perhaps the handiwork of''
''a nearby demon, infernally tainted Jinn, or faerie looking to stir up trouble), the golem is overwhelmed and begins to rampage. Seeking vengeance for the terrible wrong, it refuses to stop beating its way through the populace until finds the true culprit.''

==Story Seed: A Pirate’s Life==

''A particularly brutal corsair has taken to raiding along the coast. Not content to simply attack trading vessels, he lands with groups of reavers to attack caravans and pilgrims. In one of these raids, he captures covenfolk out on business, possibly a companion or associate bound for the covenant with correspondence. In order to avoid a life of slavery, the hostage explains to the pirates that the covenant''
''will pay a ransom, and so the slavers send a message to the covenant. However, the ship’s captain has fueled the crew’s recent successes by striking a bargain with a jinn known as “Howling Knife of the Dunes.” The jinn knows of the Order and promises the kidnappers wealth beyond measure if they can capture one magus in particular. It seems the jinn has a second master—who have the characters angered?''

|}
''complete his 12 labors. Hannibal took this route on his march through Hispania toward Rome. The covenant of Ara Maxima Nova is very protective of the Via Domitia, using it in a number of their initiations and rituals. They often challenge magi to certamen if they believe the visitor is investigating something arcane, rather than simply using the road to travel. The road begins after crossing the Pyrenees near Perthus and passes through Perpignan, going on to Narbonne across a seven-arched bridge, then through Béziers, Montpellier, and Nimes before entering into the Kingdom of Arelat. It turns north at Cereste and continues into the Piedmont, crossing the Alps at the Col de Montgenevre — the lowest primary pass between France and Italy. In antiquity, “mansiones” were spaced a day’s journey apart, where travelers could rest, eat and continue their trip.''

==Covenant of Stella Durus==

''Symbol: A shining five-pointed star''
''Sited on the outskirts of Narbonne, this cosmopolitan covenant consists of Bonisagi, Flambeau, Jerbiton, and one particularly ambitious and long-sighted Tytalus interested in the chess games of noble alliances and marriages. Their interests include research on the magical spirits and ancient ruins throughout the countryside. An Autumn covenant, their personal goals often distract them from uniting as a cohesive force in''
''politics, Hermetic or mundane, and they only want to remain unnoticed as the Albigensian Crusade progresses.''

==History==

''Stella Durus began as a small estate on the left bank of the Aude, outside of Narbonne proper, maintaining an old manor farm. The magi here quietly worked alongside their neighbors, supporting the growth of the urban environment through the 11th and 12th centuries while recovering from the long-past founding members’ participation in the Schism War and some forays against the Muslim occupation of Iberia. The current senior members of the covenant are the elder Bonisagus, Marcella, who is focused on uncovering a way to identify and harness the powers of a magical spirit—the spirit of the Aude river; and Jean Marie, a follower of Jerbiton who was looking for someplace pleasant to put down roots. Marcella’s spirit of exploration combined with Jean Marie’s bucolic attitude attracted Renaud and his current fascination with the regional Mithraic sites and the troubadours appearing across the countryside.''

==Setting and Description==

''The old Roman villa has been modified, added to, and rebuilt several times over since its initial construction. Always reclusive, the covenant members are often considered odd neighbors the other local residents ignore unless circumstances demand otherwise — the servants of an oft-traveling merchant or very minor lord on Crusade. The defenses are nearly nonexistent, the structure is nothing remarkable. The covenant seems to have taken a policy of hiding in plain sight. There is a Magic aura of 2 in the basements, where a Roman mithraem once stood.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Stella Durus has one overarching tenet: they are individuals banded together for the sake of mutual protection and shar''
''ing resources. In fact, that attitude was the reasoning behind the selection of their covenant name, referring to the stars that guide many explorers and playing on the multiple interpretations of the word “durus” as committed, rough, and enduring. These magi all have a loose interest in maintaining their home, but no uniting force to drive their covenant. Members regularly skip meetings, bicker over the distribution of maintenance tasks and try to find ways to keep their time their own. They like the proximity of Narbonne, but find the river does an excellent job of providing some measure of isolation.''

==The Magi==

''Five magi make their home at Stella Durus.''
''Marcella of Bonisagus''
''Age: 92 (Apparent age: 63) Personality Traits: Focused +2, Nurturing +2, Oblivious +2''
''A long way from her native Lancaster, Marcella convinced her filia, Giacoma, to return to Stella Durus and assist her for seven years in exchange for the elder Bonisagus’ help with a difficult situation Giacoma created. Her filia’s indiscretions disappoint her, and she secretly worries that one day she may not be able to help or shield her former apprentice. For now, Marcella contents herself with attempting to unravel her current project. She believes that a symbiotic relationship can exist between a genius loci or a Daimon and a nearby settlement, where the population center influences the strength of the spirit and allows for the extraction of regularly generated vis which might otherwise be too trivial to hunt for. She can be obsessive in her research, keeping odd hours or working deep into the night, following seemingly unrelated avenues of inquiry, and traveling wherever leads or experts can be found. She enjoys the social aspects of her research, discussing Hermetic theory with anyone willing to talk. Marcella actually has a reputation of taking virtual prisoners at Tribunal gatherings, talking about strange trivia until''
''some more pressing matter surfaces. She’s more than content to allow Jean Marie to handle what she considers the necessary evils of the covenant, allowing her to focus on research. As long as there are funds for supplies when she needs them, she doesn’t care how the Jerbiton manages Stella Durus or how he spends his days.''
''Giacoma of Bonisagus Filius Marcella''
''Age: 28 (Apparent age: 28) Personality Traits: Self-Serving +3, Inquisitive +2, Willing to Cut Corners +2''
''Giacoma is a former apprentice of Marcella who ran up a sizable debt through a Tribunal decision in Rome. Now, owing vis to a vindictive covenant across the Adriatic, she was more than willing to accept an offer from her mater — if she worked with Marcella on her research on the magical spirit of the River Aude for three seasons a year for the next seven years, she could have the vis to pay off her debt, access to the research results, and Marcella would perform her Longevity Ritual. A little bitter about her need to return to the laboratory of her mater, but happy to be clear of the danger she escaped, Giacoma hopes that the results of their investigations will reveal a better way to draw Vim vis from na''
''ture spirits, thereby uncovering vis sources in otherwise vis-poor regions. Such a discovery would make Giacoma rich, which is what really concerns her. She loves the temporal power of wealth and often directs her personal research in directions she believes will create it.''
''Renaud of Flambeau''
''Age: 54 (Apparent age: 40) Personality Traits: Dignified +3, Courageous +2, Foolhardy +2''
''The third son of a minor Norman lord who was fostered with his uncle, a petty''

==The Jinn Corsair, Howling Knife of the Dunes==

''Faerie Might: 20 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +0, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: +0 Virtues and Flaws: Narrowly Cognizant, Passes for Human; External Vis (scimitar, grants Puissant Single Weapon), Greater Power, Increased Faerie Might (Major); Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Feast of the Fae, Improved Characteristics x3, Infiltrator (Branded Criminal), Lesser Power x3, Positive Folktales, Pretentious, Puissant Single Weapon; Fury (failure in chosen mission), Sovereign Ward (person it has agreed to serve); Overconfident, Pious (Islam), Role Requires Suffering, Traditional Ward (Name: Howling Knife of the Dunes) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Jinn +3, Bargaining +2 Reputations: Capable Bodyguard 3 (Sahir), Creature for Hire 2 (Maghreb Pirates) Combat: Scimitar: Init +3, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +8 Fist: Init +1, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +2 Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Mediterranean Coasts 3 (places to come ashore),''
''Artes Liberales 1 (astronomy), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 5 (identifying threats), Bargaining 3 (establishing terms), Brawl 4 (fist), Faerie Speech 5 (issuing threats), Folk Ken 3 (humans), Leadership 2 (pirates), Profession: Navigator 1 (staying on course), Profession: Sailor 4 (pirate), Single Weapon 5+2 (scimitar), Survival 1 (desert) Powers: Sirocco’s Form, 5 points, Init –4, Auram. The Jinn Corsair transforms into a swirling cyclone of gritty desert wind. He may carry one person inside this wind. CrAu 50 R: Per, D: Until, T: Ind, (Base 30, +4 Until): Greater Power (50 levels) Sense the Living Treasure, 3 points, Init –7, Corpus. The Jinn Corsair concentrates and senses the location of the person linked to an arcane connection in his possession. The longer he concentrates, the better he knows the distance and direction to the target. InCo 20 R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc): Lesser Power (20 levels, 1 intricacy point on cost.) Scimitar of Blazing Fury, 3 points, Init –8, Ignem. The Jinn Corsair coats his weapon in searing white flame, adding +10 damage to attacks made with the weapon. CrIg 20 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Diam): Lesser Power (20 levels, 1 intricacy point spent on cost.) Conceal the Precious Charge, 3 points, Init''
''–5, Imaginem. The Jinn Corsair can make a target he touches undetectable by normal sight, regardless of what it does. However, the target still casts a shadow. PeIm 15 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Diam, +1 changing image): Lesser Power (15 levels, 2 intricacy points spent on initiative) Equipment: Scimitar, clothes, any reasonable equipment necessary for his current activities. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There is one pawn each of Auram, Corpus, Ignem and Imaginem vis in the Jinn’s scimitar, for four total pawns. The scimitar has no encumbrance and its possessor gains the Puissant Single Weapon Minor Virtue. Appearance: Dressed like a male Maghrebi pirate with a grinning and handsome countenance, the Jinn has a branded scar on his left cheek. His clothing is made of rich fabrics and he bears a well crafted scimitar. Turned in the morning light, this blade seems to be fashioned of glass.''
''The Jinn Corsair often barters with mortals who seek him for a term of protective service. He takes this duty seriously; his success is a matter of some pride, and he has only lost a charge twice. Once to a dragon, and once at the hands of a Hermetic magus—perhaps it was one of the magi from the covenant?''
''knight, Renaud has fought in Iberia, the Albigensian Crusade, and even the Third Crusade shortly after his Gauntlet. He firmly believes in the concept of “mens sana in cor''
''pore sano,” — a healthy mind in a healthy body. He trains with the grogs, serving as their mercenary captain, and his battlefield experience only reinforces his reputation as''
''a capable warrior and magus. Several close brushes with jinn in Iberia and a bad experience with the nobles executing the Albigensian Crusade left Renaud recently soured and looking for inspiration. A discussion at Tribunal with Jean Marie about the troubadour movement in the area inspired him to join Stella Durus. From here, he can investigate Roman ruins and local universities for bits of Mithraic lore while experiencing the very core of the troubadour movement. In fact, he has suggested becoming a troubadour patron twice to his fellow magi, and may personally retain one despite the perceived risks. The wisdom of bringing a wandering storyteller within the walls of the covenant seems questionable at this time, and so far, he has been dissuaded despite his role as magus in charge of defenses, but who knows for how long.''
''Jean Marie, Follower of Jerbiton''
''Age: 87 (Apparent age: 45) Personality Traits: Genial +3, Spendthrift +2, Talkative +2''
''Jean Marie enjoys a pleasant semiretirement at the covenant. He keeps busy, acting as a senior advisor for and managing a portion of a mundane shipping company''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Vis from the Stream==

''Marcella’s project has been ongoing for years. The potential ramifications of her research could significantly change the economy of the Order as vis becomes much more abundant in locations tied to ancient nature spirits. Marcella isn’t looking to kill the genii loci or Daimons, but skim vis from spirits, finding a way to “bleed” them, creating a renewable resource. The situation at Toulouse would probably provide insight, but she refuses to risk herself in such a volatile location. She has not yet determined a way to link an urban population to a Daimon, or how to invoke an Aspect for collection without alerting the Daimon, or how to draw vis from a spirit’s locus without disturbing it. She is experimenting with various ideas that address these concerns, but keeps her progress a tightly held secret. The next''
''steps in Marcella’s research might include: • A ritual incorporating aspects of Wizard’s Communion and requiring the participation of magi with high scores in Muto and Rego techniques and elemental Forms. Guided by Marcella, success might forge a persistent link to the magic spirit of the Aude, allowing the Bonisagus to harvest in a manner similar to distilling Vim vis but with a greater yield. Unfortunately, this success might be tempered by the Daimon’s awareness and loathing of the connection. • An extended negotiation with the spirit over the course of a collaborative ritual led by Marcella, where an Aspect of the Daimon undergoes the equivalent of a willing sacrifice which somehow strengthens its bond with''
''the locus of the town over time while providing the magi with vis through a short-term loss of Might. • A ritual which results in the ceremonial murder of the spirit of the Aude River, yielding a single bolus of vis determined by the storyguide. The consequences of this action eventually lead to the silting of the waterway and the decline of Narbonne as a port. • Searching for and attempting to recover the Roman watermill complex of Barbegal. This would bring her into conflict with the Coenobium’s political aims. To avoid this complication, she is willing to trade texts and connections in exchange for discreet investigation by a third party, like the player characters.''

|}
''owned by a relative, as well as occasionally traveling to Paris or making the pilgrimage to Compostela or Rome. He personally travels to the town of his birth, just outside Marseilles, every five years. As a contest, Jean Marie writes paradoxographia regarding these trips, distributing them to a list of magi and awarding vis or a tractatus on one of his known strengths of Intellego, Mentem, Rego, or Vim as the prize to the magus who identifies the largest number of lies within his letter. He strives to make the covenant a tasteful place, observing all the guidelines of Hermetic Courtesy and Hospitality, and finds Renaud’s idea of bringing a troubadour into the household quite attractive. In fact, he’s considering establishing a league of magi likewise intrigued by troubadours and the philosophy of courtly love in order to encourage the proliferation of these poet-artists despite the chaos and destructive nature of the Crusade. He is concerned such a league might draw undue attention from Crusaders seeking out Cathar refugees, especially given many of the Cathar-sympathetic nobles in Narbonnais. Jean Marie has recently begun experimenting with subtle Imaginem, trying to improve his abilities at storytelling. This led him to start exchanging letters with Mariola of Tolosa Paratge, and through the correspondence he has developed romantic feelings for her.''
''Ducaru of Tytalus''
''Age: 44 (Apparent age: 34) Personality Traits: Boastful +2, Calculating +2, Reckless +2''
''A Romanian arrival apprenticed in the Theban Tribunal, Ducaru joined the covenant with a very individual goal. He intends to infiltrate the nobility to broker marriages and alliances and has begun doing so, creating a Norman persona. He listens more than he speaks, influencing active participants, rather than participating himself. Ducaru prefers making suggestions and observing the effects versus acting directly. He plays a dangerous game, one which could have him facing charges at Tribunal should it become well-known. Jean Marie suspects it, as the Tytalus occasionally pumps him for information about the local nobility through the Jerbiton’s troubadour contacts. Never seen without his distinctive goatskin cap, Ducaru’s mastery of Mentem magics makes his goal a possibility, but his expert knowledge of Vim only seems to draw suspicion. He does not consider himself evil, but he also does not allow morals or society’s expectations to limit his actions. He often takes actions, especially unexpected actions, simply to observe the outcome. The least involved in covenant operations, Ducaru always contributes at the most opportune moment. He keeps a game of chess running in a Perpignan tavern, where he is in the process of beating Etienne of Ara Maxima Nova. The two have been trading games for months. Redcaps now frequent the tavern, keeping current on the state of the game and placing wagers on who will win.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk and grogs of Stella Durus are a mix of nationalities, brought to the covenant by its various members over time. They seem to have blended well together, but occasional conflicts emerge. The staff members speak a half dozen different languages, which has led to most of the misunderstandings, but Marcella likes this diversity, and encourages covenfolk to keep their various language skills sharp. The highly competent and veteran turb languishes here, bored with little to keep them occupied. However, in keeping with the magi’s request for an unobtrusive existence, they do not train or muster where they might be seen. Renaud wants to maintain their excellence, though, and has been working on ways around this problem.''

==Covenant of Ara Maxima Nova==

''Symbol: A wine barrel''
''Ara Maxima Nova is a Summer covenant made rich through trade in wine and cork. A group of Merinita and a Gifted Mercere established their laboratories while founding a splinter cult of Keepers of a Thousand Tales influenced by the Cult of Heroes and focused on the Via Domitia, the path both''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Marriages of Calculation==

''Ducaru may have assisted in Ramon Berenguer IV’s escape from the castle in Aragon where Templars held him prisoner until 1219. Once restored as count of Provence, Raymond married Beatrice of Savoy in June of that year; this added Savoy to his lands, but more importantly, he would have four daughters. One, Margaret, became queen of France in 1234. Another, Eleanor, became the queen of England in 1236; a clever trick, since''
''France had invaded England four years earlier. Eleanor’s son was the great Edward I, Longshanks, the Hammer of the Scots. Yet another, Sanchia, became the second wife of Richard of Cornwall in 1243. Cornwall was the brother of the king of England, became one of the richest men in Europe, and bought himself the Holy Roman Empire. The last, Beatrice, had to settle for the king of Sicily in 1246. While the timeframe of such alliances''
''may be beyond the scope of many sagas, they represent exactly what Ducaru attempts to engineer from the shadows. How does he know which pairings to make? Is he a diviner? Does he have prophecies acquired from eastern oracles or is he simply an astute student of local politics? What does he gain from such alliances? What other unions are inspired by his whispers? Ducaru’s longer timeframe might even run afoul of the characters, creating a rival in the established Tytalus.''

|}
''Heracles and Hannibal traveled through the region. The Merinita hope to tap into the spirits of the vineyards that have covered the hills since before Antiquity, seeking out the wisdom of the Dionysian mysteries while exploring the relationships between their journey of enlightenment, the Roman roads crossing the landscape, and the travels of Heracles.''

==History==

''Established 25 years ago by its Merinita magi, Ara Maxima Nova is a covenant focused on the development of the cult created by its senior magus. Having investigated the trials of Heracles in the east and experienced several initiation breakthroughs via experimentation, they traveled west to explore the remaining labors and establish a home closer to Rome. The fact that Perpignan is run as a mostly self-governed commune suits the magi perfectly, and the unfettered access to the remaining portions of the Via Domitia made the choice even easier. Using their talents, they quickly became a top producer of wine and cork, known for high quality goods available even''
''when weather or misfortune causes problems for others in the region. The covenant secured several dedicated customers who purchase their stock and ask few questions. With their mundane concerns and obligations met, the magi operate as they like with plenty of funds to spare.''

==Setting and Description==

''Ara Maxima Nova (“New Great Altar”) is a collection of small structures surrounding a small villa attached to a series of vineyards and cork nurseries. Not completely isolated from their neighbors, they try to keep their appearance as mundane as possible, blending in with the scores of farming estates that make up the outskirts of Perpignan. They perform their Aegis ritual under the cover of darkness and hidden behind Luc’s Imaginem magics, in order to keep the ritual’s effects and protections secret from even the bulk of their covenfolk. Secrecy is of the utmost importance to the members of this covenant, who, while they don’t deny membership in their House, are truly estranged from it.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''The covenant’s location allows it to serve as an excellent base of operations, midway between the two destinations its members regularly seek out. They are friendly enough and tend not to get involved in Tribunal politics unless a matter threatens to encroach upon their research. Their studies of the Herculean legends have progressed better than investigations into the Dionysian Mysteries — if only because tales of the ancient hero were not subjected to the same sort of purg''
''ing pagan mystery cults suffered. Three particular activities epitomize the magi of this well-established covenant.''
''The Pilgrimage to Rome''
''The magi of Ara Maxima Nova regularly travel to Rome to visit the church of St. Stephen of the Carriages, the namesake of their covenant (the “Ara Maxima”) and a former temple to Heracles converted into a church to prevent its destruction. They research aspects of the ancient temple, seeking artifacts, possible regiones, and clues to other sites. The Dominion aura limits the magi’s activities and they are loathe to draw the attention of the clergy. Over time, they hope to recreate the architecture of the structure in the heart of their covenant. Dedicated to their heroic patron, the members of Ara Maxima Nova remain ever vigilant for artwork, sculpture, or texts regarding Heracles or his labors. The jewel of their collection is an enormous sculpted head of the hero himself, bearded and gazing downward, recovered from ruins in the Eternal City. The group is certain ascension is possible through retracing the route of Heracles’ labors and completing rituals which mirror the tasks, complete with crimes and penance as a path of the Dionysian Mysteries. They believe the tomb of Pyrene lies somewhere to the southwest, and regularly seek it out when they have the time or pass through the area.''
''Seeking the Hesperides''
''The magi of Ara Maxima Nova have yet to find the Hesperides, renowned as one location of the 12 labors of Heracles, and would eagerly trade or collaborate with any magi who could reliably present an accurate route to the archipelago. They have made several trips to various libraries, such as Durenmar, the remnants of the Museum of Alexandria, the collections in Constantinople, various established universities like those in Paris or Montpellier, trying to establish the location of the islands. As dictated by their charter, such quests occur every five years, undertaken by a magus with a complement of supporting grogs for a period of no more''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vis Site: Heraclean Vis==

''Travelers who walk the Via Domitia from the Pyrenees pass near Perthus to the pass at Col de Montgenevre while carrying the skin of a lion and spending the night encamped at six of the mansion sites find the skin to contain 6 pawns of Intellego vis. However, the magi of Ara Maxima Nova''
''tend to keep a close watch on the road, and camping, for at least one of the sites involves sleeping in an open lot within Narbonne. The magi of Ara Maxima Nova do not yet know of the road’s potential to generate vis, but some of the local fae do and might barter this knowledge.''

|}
''than two years. Magi who join the covenant’s Cult of Heroes and hope to advance within its ranks are directed to search for this fabled place by any means possible.''
''Spirits of the Vineyards''
''The faeries which coexist with the many farms and vineyards of the region are of particular interest to the Merinita of the covenant. They engage these creatures whenever possible, attempting to learn their natures and personalities, seeking to glean ancient secrets of the Dionysian mysteries. At this point, they have found several nymphs and satyrs, but none knowledgeable or willing to share about cult ceremonies.''

==The Magi==

''Four magi currently make their residence at Ara Maxima Nova.''
''Luc of Merinita''
''Age: 66 (Apparent age: 54) Personality Traits: Intense +3, Charismatic +2, Outspoken +2''
''The mystagogue of a splinter cult of the Merinita faction of the Keepers of a Thousand Tales (which is taking on aspects of the Cult of Heroes, see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 96) and the unofficial leader of Ara Maxima Nova, Luc is a man fascinated with mysteries and obsessed with delving into them. Considered a master of Imaginem, Mentem, and Vim, he waited until nearly reaching the age of 50 before he created his Longevity Ritual, because the possible impact on his ability to successfully explore the more sexual aspects of the Dionysian Mysteries deeply concerned him. An inventive genius many suspect of having been initiated during his apprenticeship, Luc experiments with cult rites, blending aspects of seemingly disparate esoterica, tales of and interactions with Faerie creatures, and astrological and natural signs in order to craft new initiations—all with the help of visions experienced while consum''
''ing draughts laced with mandrake root or poppy’s tears. His wife, Miriam, is a failed apprentice, his lab assistant, fellow cultist, and regular muse, but his promiscuous attitudes have led him to take several lovers of both genders throughout the course of his studies, a fact he does not advertise. He has two children, both eligible young women, and quite possibly a number of unidentified illegitimate children scattered across the Mediterranean region. Luc relies heavily on his sister, Jeanne, for advice, seeking her out in moments of crisis or frustration, and often feeling only his true sister by birth can fully understand the rigors of the life they led as children of a strict and sometimes abusive deacon in Brittany. His main focus is on the cult, and he tends to ignore the more dayto-day operational requirements of the covenant, much to Etienne’s frustration. His goals at this point include:''
''• Locate and visit the Hesperides, so that he might complete the final two tasks in his attempt to reenact the Labors of Heracles. Once he has stolen the Apples of the Hesperides, he believes he knows the site of a lapis manalis, or stone covering the gate to the underworld, which will lead him to a regio where he might find Cerberus. • Establish a legacy ensuring the continuation of his cult and its teachings — at least within House Merinita, quite possibly within the Order of Hermes in general. This will require an excellent text, one reasonably but carefully distributed to likeminded and sympathetic individuals. If he ever learned about them, Luc would be very eager to incorporate the Elysian Ecstasy or Olympian Pact mentioned in The Sun''
''dered Eagle (page 126). • Find a way to reverse the sterilizing effects of his Longevity Ritual so that he might sire a literal son to carry on his line. An apprentice is a barely acceptable substitute for this goal, but a male child who could also become his apprentice is perhaps the only dream that could make him postpone his search for ascension.''
''Etienne of Merinita''
''Age: 68 (Apparent age: 43) Personality Traits: Calm +2, Curious +2, Dedicated +2''
''With Luc since the beginning through a chance fostering, Etienne is primarily responsible for the maintenance and administration of Ara Maxima Nova as well as for interactions with visitors. An Animal, Herbam, Muto and Rego specialist, he contributes by keeping the structures in superior condition with an almost obsessive attention to detail. Stocky and taciturn with dark features and a piercing gaze, Etienne is a former lover of Luc, but ended the relationship when Luc married Miriam. While he is an active member of the cult, he has no desire to seek its innermost secrets. Rather, he wants to remain close to Luc and support the mystagogue’s search for wisdom in anyway possible. Blessed with the Gentle Gift, he has a weakness for sweets and a good game of chess, often making excuses to enter Perpignan looking for both. Outside specific cult initiations, Etienne remains celibate and makes no effort to seek companionship. He does feel the time is right to begin training an apprentice, and intends to search for one very soon.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Expedition==

''Using the material presented in chapter 7 of Ancient Magic, a storyguide could easily create a joint venture between Ara Maxima Nova and the players’ covenant, where the wealthy covenant funds an expedition driven by information gathered by the troupe’s magi. Should a storm, created by the dragon which embodies the fierce cur''
''rents, separate the groups’ sailing vessels or cause a shipwreck as the group arrives, then separated groups could explore the islands for their secrets while attempting to find other survivors and a route home. Divided groups might even conflict with one another for control of the Hesperides after reuniting.''

|}
''Jeanne of Merinita''
''Age: 63 (Apparent age: 46) Personality Traits: Dedicated +3, Energetic +2, Reliable +2''
''The younger sister of Luc, Jeanne compliments Etienne’s support of their mystagogue — where Etienne is relaxed and easygoing, Jeanne is excited and concerned, evaluating everything for possible advantage. Jeanne dislikes Luc’s wife, and the two regularly bicker about the best course of action for the cult. Luc often finds the compromise which leaves neither one unnecessarily irritated, but perhaps pleased at seeing the other thwarted. When Jeanne’s original pater died, Caprican of Oleran in Aquitaine (The Lion and the Lily, page 72) took the girl in to complete her apprenticeship as a favor to the dead magus, despite Caprican’s age at the time. Jeanne does not share her second pater’s interest in the Stone Couches or the legacy of that covenant’s leadership. Initiated during her instruction, she corresponded with her brother and the two began to form the nucleus of what would become their cult in its current form. It is possible that Caprican may seek her out in the coming years, believing a reluctant champion is just what the Apple Mile needs. Jeanne’s personal interest lies in finding secrets of the Dionysian Mysteries known to the faerie, and she is the covenant’s expert regarding Arcadia, interaction with faeries, and their customs. Each winter, she records any experiences with faeries in book which she plans to later''
''refine and publish as an authoritative summa on Faerie Lore.''
''Guillermo of Mercere''
''Age: 56 (Apparent age: 33) Personality Traits: Bold +2, Foolhardy +2, Proud +2''
''The youngest magus of Ara Maxima Nova and the only one originally from outside of France, Guillermo recently became a member of the cult. His research into Hannibal and Heracles through the Cult of Heroes (and a misunderstanding with a local lord about Guillermo’s relationship with the lord’s wife) led him to leave his home in Genoa and seek the Via Domitia, where he repeatedly crossed paths with Luc. After several encounters, including some failed but genial certamen bouts fought over access to resources and ruins which culminated in extended discussions regarding the ideas of heroic ascension, Luc invited Guillermo to join and take the first series of initiations. His extensive knowledge of ancient tales and extreme familiarity with the area intrigued Luc, and the elder magus became fascinated with the Gifted Mercere. Guillermo recognizes this infatuation and nurtures it, hoping to learn as many of the cult’s innermost secrets as possible. His loyalties, however, lie strictly to himself, and should he be forced to choose between some form of extreme sacrifice for the covenant and his own well-being, he is certain to choose''
''himself. Shortly after his Gauntlet, Guillermo rescued a young Tremere named Sagittaire, who had been accosted by bandits. In gratitude, Sagittaire taught the Mercere the secrets of the Carvers’ school of Certamen dueling (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 138) and Guillermo has a reputation for freely acting as a champion for any Redcap in the Tribunal who asks.''

==Covenfolk==

''Ara Maxima Nova regularly recruits new covenfolk from peasants seeking new lives in the town proper of Perpignan, including those seeking respite from the Reconquista to the south. Despite occasional arguments about the practice, Etienne even supplements some personnel needs with slaves from Arab merchants. Many who work in the vineyard or cork operations have no idea of the masters they serve. A dedicated cadre of covenfolk work within the main structure, dutifully tending the specialized needs of the magi. Drawn from servants who show promise and loyalty, these covenfolk are well-cared for and generously compensated. However, covenant policy rarely allows them to travel any great distances — Luc wishes to keep his cult secret and has no desire to take unnecessary risks. The exceptions to this rule are, of course, the fairly small turb of welltrained grogs who accompany magi afield, work foremen, and those who negotiate with merchants in Perpignan.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
