''While the Hispanic March might be considered part of Iberia, portions of the kingdom of Castille and Navarre, as well as the kingdom of Aragon and the county of Barcelona stretch up into the Pyrenees to brush up against Provence. Lonely metal crosses planted on mountainsides and places where the spring melt flows north or south demarcate the border. Much like the patchwork of Narbonnais, these domains and their peoples are intimately tied not only to''
''each other, but also their immediate neighbors with relationships stretching back generations. Noble ladies of the region married the king of England and the counts of Burgundy and Toulouse, while King Pedro II of Aragon wedded Marie of Montpelier. The rulers of these lands participated in the Reconquista as much as the Albigensian Crusade, and cared deeply about both outcomes.''

==Domains of the Hispanic March==

''The Marca Hispanica consists of two primary regions, both divided into two portions. In the west, the kingdoms of Castile and Navarre hold the border. In the central foothills and the east, the crown of Aragon rules over the kingdom of Aragon and the county of Barcelona. Nestled within the bo''

=The Pyrenees and the Hispanic March=

''som of the Pyrenees lies the tiny realm of Andorra, the last true marcher county established by Charlemagne. These are busy, complicated realms, and this material only touches upon the portions which share the border of the Pyrenees with Provence. It is intended to provide additional context for mundane and political interactions and should not be considered a complete resource.''

==Kingdoms of Castile and Navarre==

''Ferdinand III, the son of the current king of Leon, rules the kingdom of Castile and claims suzerainty over Sancho VII, king of Navarre, through an elaborate chain of events. Ferdi''
''nand inherited Castile from his mother in 1217. She surrendered it to him after the death of her younger brother, Henry I of Castile. Henry was thirteen years old and died after being struck by a tile falling from a rooftop. Henry’s father was Alphonso VIII, a great contributor to the Reconquista and founder of the Order of the Knights of St. James of the Sword. Dissatisfied with Sancho VI’s oath of fealty to his father, Alphonso VIII united much of Castile and Navarre by force, seizing his cousin’s provinces of Álava, Guipúzcoa, and Biscay while Sancho VII campaigned in Africa, attempting to secure the support of the Almohads against Castile. Afterwards, Navarre reaffirmed its vassalage to Castile and pledged alliance to Ferdinand III of Castile, Sancho of Barcelona and regent of Aragon and Alphonso II of Portugal against the remaining Almohads in Iberia.''
''Pamplona''
''Located on the right bank of the Arga river, Pamplona enjoys a rich income provided by the influx of pilgrims traveling through its lands on the Way of St. James. The routes from the Tunnel Way and Roncevaux Pass continue through the lands of Pamplona. People take pride in facilitating the journey of the devout to Compostella. Heavily fortified after hundreds of years of conflict, Pamplona has a reputation as “a bit of a fortress,” a city with high walls where people speak slowly and keep to their own business. A large number of ethnic Basques and Occitan immigrants make their home in Pamplona and the Provençal style of wandering trobairitz is quite popular. Despite its status as the capital of Navarre, most local authority comes from the bishop, the king’s brother Ramiro, as Sancho VII retired to the monastery of Tudela after the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa in 1212. Ramiro’s sister, the Regent Blanca of Navarre, normally focuses her attention on military affairs to the south.''
''County of Labourd''
''From the shores of the Bay of Biscay to the peak of Mount Rhune at the eastern edge of Lower Navarre, Labourd is considered the cultural center of the Basque people. Many unGifted folk witches, or sorginak, live in the numerous towns and villages and frequently travel to Rhune to hold the witches’ sabbat of akelarre (see the section on sorginak later in this chapter) in or around the stone circles, dolmens, and ancient burial mounds that litter its slopes. The seven-headed, flying, firebreathing dragon Lehen Sugea supposedly sleeps deep within the mountain, which has a Magic aura of 4. At least one coven of sorginak operates around the capital of Ustariz and travels to Rhune for their Friday akelarre in the form of ravens. The count of Labourd lost his rights to Bayonne, historically a part of the domain, after participating in the revolt against King Henry II. Richard the Lionheart crushed the count’s forces, occupied Bayonne for thirty years, and granted it a charter which King John then reaffirmed. Given Bayonne’s strong trade relationships with Cornwall and Aquitaine, there is little chance the count will recover those rights.''

[|

==Story Seed: The Bitter Lord==

''Frustrated at what he considers the theft of his ancestral birthright, the count of Labourd entertains the idea of turning to the sorginak for revenge. He plans to buy their services, using them''
''to curse, intimidate, and blackmail the officials of Bayonne into submission. Then, when the situation becomes unbearable, he will offer to intercede on their behalf, in exchange for their fealty.''

==Story Seed: A Timeless Monk==

''Near Pamplona, the Cistercian monastery of San Salvador of Leyre is famous for its former abbot, St. Virila. The abbot sat entranced for 300 years listening to the song of a nightingale in order to better contemplate eternity.''
''Renowned as early as 920, he awoke unaged and unaware of the passage of time. Was he possibly a forerunner of the pious magi, and do his relics—entombed beneath the monastery— hold any secrets?''

==Tangled Ties==

''Sancho VII of Navarre was brotherin-law of Richard the Lionheart, who married his sister, Berengaria, the only queen of England never to set foot in England. He considered Richard I a close ally and maintained good terms with John, the following king of England. His parents were Sancho VI of Navarre and Sancha of Castile, sister of Sancho III of Castile. Alphonso VIII of Castile, Sancho VII of Navarre’s regional contemporary and rival, married the daughter of Henry II of England and Eleanor of Aquitaine, El''
''eanor of England—Richard I and John’s sister. Eleanor died of grief 28 days after Alphonso, in 1214. Alphonso’s parents were Sancho III of Castile and Blanca of Navarre, sister of Sancho VI of Navarre, and Sancho VII’s aunt. This made Sancho VII and Aphonso VIII cousins by blood, brothers-in-law by marriage, and alternately foes and allies on the battlefield—fully displaying the kind of complicated political-familial relationships common to the region in this era.''
''Lower Navarre''
''This collection of valleys and hills has changed fealty between Gascony and Navarre many times in the last two hundred years. It currently pledges allegiance to Navarre but has no noble ruler. A sheriff oversees the towns and hamlets, collecting taxes and enforcing the king’s law. The people of Lower Navarre remain very involved in the industry surrounding the Way of St. James, which passes through the fabled Roncevaux Pass after leaving the popular mustering point of Ostabat. The region is also known for its pink sandstone, rare wild ponies known as pottok, and Irouleguy wines—produced by the monks of the Abbey of Roncevaux. Numerous dolmens dotting the countryside suggest that the ancient race of giants known as jentilak once occupied these hills.''
''Viscounty of Soule''
''Soule shares the Oloron river as its northern border with the county of Béarn in Gascony. Its capital is Mauléon, governed by Ramon Guillem IV, who became the viscount in 1217. Lower Navarre forms its western boundary, and the valleys of Barétous and Salazar form its eastern and southern borders. Its primarily Basque population rarely speaks anything but Euskara and occasionally Occitan. Riddled with sinkholes and caves, the limestone hills of Soule serve as lairs for a few drakes and worms, said to be the progeny of Sugaar, and for countless lamia, who purportedly teach their mystic secrets to the Basque folk witches.''

==Kingdom of Aragon and the County of Barcelona==

''The kingdom of Aragon and the county of Barcelona belong to the crown of Aragon and the region is collectively called Catalonia. Once ruled by Pedro II the Catholic, Simon de Montfort’s forces killed the king at the Battle of Muret in 1213. His 12 year-old son, James I, currently resides in the political heart of Aragon, the city of Zaragoza. Nobles loyal to him plot to secure his ascension to power with a marriage to Eleanor, daughter of Alphonso VIII of Castile. Planned for''
''the prince’s 13th birthday in 1221, the marriage is intended to strengthen Aragon until James reaches majority in 1223. Sancho of Barcelona, James’ uncle and the count of Roussillon and Cerdagne, as well as Sancho’s son, Nuno Sanche, lord of Roussillon, Vallespir, Conflent and Cerdagne, act as regents of Aragon. They are further discussed in Chapter 7: Narbonnais. Obviously, several of these counties lie in Narbonnais and their lords are also lords of Aragon, further demonstrating the entangled relationships between the nobles of the region.''
''County of Besalu''
''The county of Besalu joined the lands of the county of Barcelona in the early 12th century. Many important monasteries operate here, including the all-female monastery of Sant Joan de les Abadesses, and the monasteries of Santa María de Ripoll, Bañolas, Camprodón, and Sant Pau de Fenollet. Several castles watch its northern border, including Tautavel, Vingrau, Queribus, and Aguilar. All are fairly remote and guard routes through the Pyrenees; many currently house groups of Cathar refugees. Santa María de Ripoll is considered the religious heart of Catalonia and hosts the mausoleums for the counts of Barcelona and the counts of Besalu, stretching back to the ninth century. A renowned center for learning with over 400 manuscripts, it controls the abbeys of Martin-du-Canigou and Monserrat—both in nearby Conflent. Santa María de Ripoll’s beautifully sculpted portal has seven bands showing God seated in Heaven, telling the stories of Cain and Abel, Jonah, David and Solomon, and Moses. The monastery has a Divine aura of 4.''
''County of Conflent''
''A holding of Nuno Sanche, Charlemagne established Conflent to include the Tét river valley and some surrounding lands. Over time, Conflent broke away from the Franks to become a familial holding, passing into the count of Barcelona’s possession in the early 12th century. Many castles stand here, including the formidable structures in Castellano and Turres Betses. Villefranche''
''de-Conflent, established in the 11th century at the confluence of the Tét and Cady rivers, is the region’s administrative center and a heavily fortified town. Mount Canigou dominates the northern horizon, and the abbeys of Martin-duCanigou and Saint-Michel-de-Cuxa stand high on its slopes.''
''County of Cerdagne''
''Nuno Sanche also rules Cerdagne, or what remains after Raymond Roger I of Foix invaded in 1195. The count attacked while attempting to claim his rights to Andorra from the Bishop of Urgell, whose parishes extend through Cerdagne, Pallars, and Urgell. Foix destroyed a number of churches and attacked several monasteries, rampaging throughout Cerdagne and Urgell until his eventual defeat in 1203. The Albigensian Crusade interrupted a short recovery and further stressed the region, ensuring most of the devastation remains. In the absence of rebuilding, most existing Divine auras here are nothing but slowly fading remnants. With his distributed holdings, the politics of the Aragonese regency, and the Crusade in Provence, the count pays little attention to reconstruction in the aftermath. Fortunately, the Segre river valley, which comprises Cerdagne, is the only regional valley running from east to west. This alignment provides it with ample sunlight and results in bountiful harvests allowing it to weather the recent hardships.''
''County of Pallars''
''Nestled deep in the mountains of the Pyrenees, many remote villages in this''

==Covenants of the Pyrenees==

''Current Covenants: Aedes Mercurii, Bellaquin, Miniata Sophia Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Chapterhouse of ValNegra near Girona, Mistridge, Outpost of Aedes Mercurii in the city of Saint Jean Pied-de-Port, Val-Negra, Windgraven''

|]
''quiet county become completely isolated after winter storms close the routes beyond their valleys. Its ruler is Roger I de Pallars, the brother of the count of Comminges. He married the countess in 1217, but she is distant and uninterested in matters of rulership, preferring to study scripture. Roger I is an active participant in the Albigensian Crusade, fighting against the Cathars. He pays little attention to Pallars, and there is nearly no noble oversight of the land.''
''Counties of Jaca, Sobrarbe and Ribagorza''
''All three counties are a part of the lands claimed by the Crown of Aragon, and governed by the regency of James I until he reaches majority.''
''Alternatively known as the county of Aragon, Jaca was once a part of Navarre, until its count shifted his loyalties. Since the early part of the 12th century, Jaca has belonged to a confederation of domains which included Sobrarbe and Ribagorza, eventually forming the nucleus of what grew into the kingdom of Aragon. Considered a combined territory since the tenth century, when the marriage of the two families created a unified land, Sobrarbe and Ribagorza claim a large Basque population, and a remnant Muslim population. Both live peacefully alongside the Christian majority. A very mountainous region, the highest peaks of the Pyrenees are located in Ribagorza.''
''County of Urgell''
''The count of Urgell, Ermengol VIII, died in 1208. He successfully defended the region against the incursions of Raymond Roger I, the count of Foix, starting in 1195. The count eventually captured Raymond Roger I in 1203 and turned him over to the bishop, who in turn gave him to Pedro II of Aragon. The king released the count of Foix in anticipation of the coming conflict of the Albigensian Crusade and actually added to Foix’s lands to ensure Raymond Roger’s loyalty. Elvira, the count’s widow, continues to rule from La Seu d’Urgell since Ermengol’s death, but her poor health means she is''
''not expected to survive beyond the winter of 1220. She is desperately grooming their daughter, Aurembiaix, to succeed her. The countess married Aurembiaix to Álvaro Pérez de Castro, a Castilian noble, in 1212, in an attempt to strengthen Aurembiaix’s position.''

==Andorra==

''The last survivor of the Pyrenees Marches established by Charlemagne, tiny Andorra consists of five united parishes: Canillo, Encamp, Ordino, La Massana, and Sant Julia de Loria. No lord lives in Andorra; they supposedly possess a charter granting them sovereignty over their lands, a reward from Charlemagne for their military service during his battles against the Moors. The Bishop of Urgell and Raymond Roger, count of Foix, both assert rights to Andorra. However, neither has successfully enforced their privilege, and the Andorrans largely ignore them or play the two against each other. The greatest tribute ever demanded from Andorra in recent memory was a gift of several hams and other samples of regional produce. Though tiny, Andorra prospers and manages to export goods to both sides of the Pyrenees. Livestock and wool remain the primary industries, but it also produces an exceptional mountain wine. The rivers of Andorra also serve as a minor trade pass between Toulouse and the lands of Catalonia. Despite its light traffic, the pass ensures that Andorra is independent and insulated, but not isolated. The natural beauty attracts many visitors, often wealthy pilgrims who linger before continuing west. Each of the five Andorran parishes contains a handful of tiny mountain villages. In 1220, the entire population numbers roughly three thousand people. Representatives of these parishes meet annually in the town of Andorra la Vella to discuss issues concerning regional rule and administration. However, native Andorrans possess neither lordship nor vassalage within their lands. Each one, from rich landowner to wage earning servant, considers himself an individual sovereign within Andorra.''

==Geographic Locations==

''Many places of both history and magic in the Pyrenees have importance outside of their local area.''

==Zugarramurdi Cave==

''A sorginak akelarre site (or folk witch gathering place) since antiquity, the enormous gallery of Zugarramurdi cave opens into a large meadow. A small stream runs through the cave and sorginak from Normandy, Iberia and Provence meet here every three years on the summer solstice, in a great gathering. Strange rituals and initiations take place while sorginak barter for vis and secrets. It has a Magic aura of 4, but vis extracted here is vis Infesta (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 18).''

==Roncevaux Pass==

''Part of the Way of St. James and the site of the great defeat of Charlemagne’s army, Roncevaux pass hosts a church, the Chapel of Puerto de Ibañeta, a hostel for travelers and pilgrims, and a marker indicating where Roland fell in battle. The actual battlefield is in the nearby Valcarlos; the site is often visited by Verditius as part of their mystery rites. (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 121) King Sancho VII of Navarre donated a portion of his spoils from the Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa to the church, including the great emerald that once adorned the turban of the sultan Miramamolín. The church also contains the statue of Our Lady of Roncevaux, a cedar and silver statue supposedly revealed to the priests by a deer. The whole area has a Divine aura of 3, which increases to 4 on the anniversary of the battle.''

==Mount Perditu==

''Covered in pine forests and icy glaciers, Mount Perditu is the tallest moun''
''tain in the Pyrenees and draws its name from its remote nature: it is “lost” from the rest of civilization. It is part of the same area as the Breach of Roland, and its trio of peaks are said to have been formed by three sisters, transformed by their faith and grief after their village was destroyed by Visigoths. The Ghost of Pyrene sometimes lingers near its base or at the Breach of Roland.''

==Breach of Roland==

''The Breach of Roland is a gap 40 paces wide with 100 pace-high cliffs, located in the opening above the circus of Gavarnie. Supposedly cut by Roland in an attempt to destroy his fabled sword Durendal as he bled to death from a terrible wound, the Breach is actually over 100 miles from Roncevaux. Inexplicably, the Breach has an aura of 2 which is randomly Magic or Divine, suggesting something very unusual.''

==The Mallos de Riglos==

''Located in the foothills of the Pyrenees, the nearly vertical pillars of the Mallos de Riglos are sedimentary stone, some rising 300 paces into the air. Roughly six miles to the east, on a limestone bluff, stands the mighty fortress of Castle Loarre. Built in the 11th century, it has been expanded several times, most recently by Pedro II, who built the outer walls and towers. A small village surrounds the castle, also called Loarre. An order of Augustine canons from Montearagón operates within the castle, and has done so since Pedro I granted them the privilege.''

==Les Gorges de Galamus==

''Two days south of Perpignan, in the foothills of the Pyrenees, is the Gorges de Galamus with high, stark walls and a narrow passage of the Agly river. Clinging to the canyon walls is the hermitage of St. Anthony, dating back to least the seventh century. A curious place with a Divine aura''
''of 2, it has a pool deep within a cave fed by a spring dedicated to Mary Magdalene. The pool has a Magic aura of 3 and is reputed to have healing powers. An ancient stone set at the hermitage entrance is carved with a magic square reading “SATOR – AREPO – TENET – OPERA – ROTAS” which some claim imperfectly translates as “he who guides the plough sows the seed” and others believe means “to extinguish fire without water.”''

==Cave Systems==

''Caves riddle the Pyrenees, and any of the numerous large subterranean systems might be potential covenant sites. The caves of Betharram (on the Toulousain side of the Pyrenees) are one possibility. The caves extend nearly three kilometers under the surface while boasting several large galleries and a flowing underground river. Many of''

[|

==Story Seed: Contested County==

''The count of Ager, Urgell’s cousin, claims Aurembiaix cannot inherit the county and threatens to take control of the county by force upon the countess’ death. If your saga follows history, Guerau IV de Cabrera seizes Urgell in the winter of 1220 and Aurembiaix flees into exile, attempting to find a way to recover her birthright. She''
''might become a Companion within a covenant, or act as a potential patron. In 1228, James I took an interest in her and had her marriage annulled on grounds of consanguinity. She then became James’ concubine and he confirmed her rights of inheritance in exchange for the town of Lleida.''

==Story Seed: Looking for a Lord==

''A covenant established in one of Pallars’ many valleys or ruined keeps would have little concern regarding mundane interference both for their remote nature and for the limited governance — at least for a while. This situation remains unchanged until Roger II succeeds as count''
''in 1234, becoming much more involved in regional politics and potentially taking an interest in any pet administrators or pretenders. In the interim, however, the covenant might see some competition for vis sites from the Basque sorginak or Dama’s cult.''

==Story Seed: Who Watches the Watchtower?==

''A partially ruined tower sits atop Mount Urkulu, offering an excellent view to the north and south, and of the route through the Roncevaux Pass. Built by the Romans, many claim it is a Mercurian site, and it serves as a watchtower, allowing the sheriff’s garrison to protect travelers. Men''
''stationed there quickly depart on Fridays, however, as an active coven of sorginak hold akelarre within its walls—often summoning a wild aker for instruction or service or using their ecstatic magic (see Sorginak, later in this chapter) to answer questions or avenge slights.''

==Story Seed: A Giant Witch==

''The locals in Loarre claim a jentilak sorgina (a Basque giant, see the section on Basque Mythology and Magic later in this chapter) resides amongst the columns of the Mallos de Riglos, and once served as the folk witch of a village''
''named Foz de Escalettes. As her gigantic nature became more apparent, the villagers fled. She used magic to pull more rock up from the earth in order to hide and live in seclusion. Magic auras and vis sites are common there.''

|]
''the tunnels and grottos in the Pyrenees are home to drakes or worms, as well as the occasional wyvern, and so establishing a covenant in one of the mountain cave systems may mean evicting the current occupant.''

==Bellaquin==

''Symbol: A red plumed hawk clutching a scroll, inside a gold circle''
''Located in the Andorran parish of Ordino, the renewed covenant of Bellaquin is paradoxically isolated yet deeply involved in mundane and Hermetic affairs. A mere generation ago, they enjoyed the peak of Summer from the Chateau d’Penne in Tarn, perched high above the Aveyron river, a day’s march north northeast from Toulouse. A legend amongst magi and mundanes, they wielded great influence in the Order and among nobles. Undone by their own decadence and intrigues, a combination of mundane forces — possibly orchestrated by other magi — resulted in the destruction of their original location. However, taking the advice of certain archmagi, Bellaquin had prepared for such a disaster. With hidden emergency reserves and a secured, alternate location, the attack’s survivors took what they could, destroyed what they could not, and abandoned the site to their mundane proxies. Now, twenty years later and located in Andorra, Bellaquin has reached an even greater peak than before, but on a different scale. However, it is greatly transformed and many consider it a different covenant. They''

[|

==Story Seed & Vis Site: The Cairn of Pyrene==

''In a drunken indiscretion, Heracles seduced the nymph, Pyrene, while he enjoyed the hospitality of her father’s court. He then continued on his task to steal Geryon’s cattle. Pyrene bore a serpent as a result of the union and ran into the forest to tell her story to the trees. Drawn by her sobbing, wild animals tore her apart. When he returned, Heracles found her dismembered body. Overwhelmed with grief, he gathered her body and built a cairn of stones, demanding that the surrounding area preserve her name. The very hillsides responded, piling stones upon stones and thus creating the Pyrenees Mountains. Somewhere, deep in the range, lies the secret tomb of Pyrene.''
''Several magical animals supposedly lurk in the vicinity and her ghost haunts the region. On the night of her death, the spectre appears before the cairn, weeping until sunrise. Dew collects a shallow depression of the large boulder where the spirit sits, and the liquid contains 4 pawns of Mentem vis. This place has a Magic aura of 4 and links to a larger regio network stretching throughout the mountains. What does the tortured ghost of Pyrene know of Heracles? What happened to the serpent she bore? Is it a voivre (Realms of Power: Faerie, page 101)? Can characters convince Pyrene to reveal and share the regio network created with the Pyrenees’ birth?''

==Pyrene the Spectre==

''Magic Might: 14 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +6, Com +1, Str –2, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: –1 Season: Autumn Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Magic Monster; Good Teacher, 2x Great Presence, Homing Instinct (Boulder marking vis site), Inoffensive to Animals, 2x Lesser Power, Mountain Regio Network, Master of Magic Creatures, Voice of the Mountains; Curse of Venus, Magical Air; Baneful Circumstances (day), Proud, Small Frame, Soft-hearted Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Improved Presence; 2x Improved Abilities, 4x Improved Might, Improved Power Personality Traits: Grieving +3, Reclusive +3, Proud +2 Reputations: Weeping woman of the hills 3 (local) Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage -2 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: None. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Animal Ken 4 (pacifying), Area''
''Lore: Pyrenees 5 (passes), Athletics 2 (sprinting), Awareness 5 (the living), Brawl 2 (dodge), Charm 5 (apologies), Dead Language: Gothic 4 (commands), Dead Language: Latin 4 (commands), Etiquette 4 (nobles), Folk Ken 3 (discerning motivation), Intrigue 2 (spotting conspiracy), Leadership 2 (maintaining a household), Living Language: Euskara 5 (conversation), Living Language: Occitan 4 (commands), Magic Lore 5 (creatures), Stealth 3 (keeping hidden) Powers: Invisiblity, 0 points, Init –1, Imaginem. Pyrene becomes invisible when she wishes, but can still be seen by Second Sight. PeIm 15 R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +1 moving image): Lesser Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init –2, Corpus: Pyrene can assume material form. Lesser Power; Improved Power (–5 Might cost) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are three pawns of Mentem in Pyrene’s dress. Appearance: Pyrene manifests as a ghostly pale, yet breathtakingly beautiful, raven-haired woman with mangled lower legs, bloodied feet and a tearstreaked face. She wears only a ragged linen dress.''

|]
''say that the original Bellaquin fell to an early Winter, and this second Bellaquin achieved a quick Spring and early Summer. Bellaquin magi believe their history to be unbroken, with a rough transition from Summer to Autumn. They have not changed their charter, only their location.''

==History==

''Established in the waning times of the Schism War, magi originally built Bellaquin in the ruins of an abandoned castle restored with magic. Its Flambeau members intended it as a stronghold during the Schism War, but the conflict ended shortly thereafter and Bellaquin never participated. The Flambeau magi departed and gave Bellaquin to the Jerbiton who have presided over it ever since. Celebrated throughout Mythic Europe, the original site enjoyed a reputation as one of the most beautiful and magnificent edifices in the Order. Following the departure of the Flambeau magi, Bellaquin became thoroughly enmeshed in mundane affairs. The restored castle attracted peasants to resettle the land, forcing the magi into the role of land management. This unintentional stewardship eventually involved the covenant in aristocratic politics, and led the magi to consider themselves as lords over a private fiefdom. They took on other lands as vassals, granting portions to friends and companions as puppet domains. Despite becoming an extreme example of mundane involvement, Bellaquin’s skillful management allowed Quaesitors to permit them a wide discretion, as they never brought “ruin on my sodales.” Jealous neighbors twice charged them of violating their Oaths, but each time the Tribunal found Bellaquin had not brought ruin upon the accusers or the Order, and the covenant endured. Their success at preventing “ruin” allowed them to function within the Code, but barely. The covenant served as a vital link between mundane and Hermetic society; one considered, at the time, essential to the prosperity of the Tribunal. Entangled in feudal alliances, Bellaquin soon overextended itself, becoming caught between conflicting obligations to warring''
''allies. Supporting one side preferentially would be a flagrant Code violation. Refusing to support either would undoubtedly draw the nobles’ wrath for failing their feudal obligations, serving only to increase the breadth of their potential Code violations. In a failed compromise, they assisted both sides through peaceful means, paying scutage and providing curative elixirs. Supported by senior Church officials seeking to eliminate Bellaquin, the warring nobles concluded that the magi had secretly instigated and fueled their conflict for personal gain. They turned their forces upon Bellaquin, destroying the castle in a surprise assault, abetted by a traitorous companion. The attack killed several magi and the lucky escapees evacuated to Andorra. With the damage limited to Bellaquin, no one pressed charges against the survivors.''

==Setting and Description==

''Originally founded in 1016, Bellaquin’s current location was established in''
''1202. Now functioning as a large house built within a lacunae in the village and region of Ordino in Andorra, they endeavor to create a different sort of covenant, one more subtle but still engaged in mundane affairs. Enjoying a Magic aura of 3 and maintaining an 8th magnitude Aegis of the Hearth, Bellaquin enjoys a local reputation as a helpful group of wealthy outsiders who frequently bring trade from distant merchants. Amongst the Order, they encourage a reputation for casual indifference and occasionally unhealthy, stubborn tendencies. Every magus at Bellaquin has customized his laboratory to some degree, and a vacant lab currently serves as storage space. Vis-rich, Bellaquin holds nearly 100 pawns, and their vis sources supply an average of 30 pawns per year. They keep a fortified manor on the outskirts of town, at the beginning of a road leading up the mountain which overlooks most of Andorra. Their grogs participate in local militia patrols and volunteer in the village’s defense.''

==Faith & Flame Culture and Traditions==

''Still deeply involved in mundane affairs, Bellaquin now employs far more subtle tactics. Instead of conspicuously consorting with powerful nobility, Bellaquin works through mercantile channels, utilizing an influential network on both sides of the Pyrenees and ranging as far as Germany and Italy. No actual trade occurs on the covenant grounds, but it lies at the heart of a financial machine. Bellaquin offers banking services to both mundanes and magi. They do not engage in money lending as the Italian bankers do, but provide the service of transferring funds between distant locations, similar to the Templars. Using Hermetic magic, they can easily transport funds or other resources to a prearranged location at established times, and with some extra effort to nearly any location.''

==Magi==

''Bellaquin has five members, though only one member remains from the original location and one other is the filia of an old member. The rest of the current members joined after the relocation. Of the other members from the first site, three died in the attack which ended the old covenant, two departed the Tribunal afterwards, and three others have died or passed into Twilight since the transition. Bellaquin is strong and self-sufficient with five members, but it has room and resources to take on a few more. They would welcome prospective young magi with promise who petitioned for membership, such as player characters.''
''Archmage Valgravian of Jerbiton''
''Age: 114 (Apparent age: 77) Personality Traits: Dedicated to the prosperity of Bellaquin +3, Compassion for old friends +1 Reputations: Archmage 4 (Hermetic), Canny 3 (Hermetic), Capable Musician 3 (Local)''
''Archmage Valgravian is the oldest magus of the covenant, an immigrant from''
''the Rhine Tribunal. He created the contingency plan which saved the covenant, and his leadership guided Bellaquin through the transition. He maintains indirect contact with a few of his old noble friends, but he is far more cautious about his involvement in their affairs. He limits himself to advice and Longevity Rituals for the two or three closest to him. For the most part, he remains dedicated to the smooth management of the covenant. Other Bellaquin magi sometimes find him annoying, since he regularly talks to them about their covenant tasks. However, he gives members wide discretion in their offices and responsibilities. He rather seeks to exchange advice and knowledge about project execution, playing a fraternal role with the older members and a paternal role with the younger ones. Valgravian is old friends with Constantine, and has known Antoinette since she was born. Beyond those relationships, he doesn’t know the other member magi very well, and sometimes he feels like a stranger in his own home. He remembers a time when Bellaquin was a covenant of poets and musicians, and laments the lack of troubadours in the area. New members mean new interests and ideas, and although Bellaquin remains a patron of the arts, it is so to a much lesser degree than previously. The archmage concentrated his magical endeavors in the musical arts, having a Minor Magic Focus in music. He created various spells to create or enhance music, and fashioned an enchanted necklace which “captures” and memorizes the musical performance of the person wearing it, reproducing it later. His archmage contest demands a musical performance which moves him to tears. His sigil is a faint fanfare of horns.''
''Constantine of Jerbiton''
''Age: 67 (Apparent age: 49) Personality Traits: Avarice +3, Gluttony +2, Jovial +1, Serious +1''
''Constantine is a merchant deeply invested in banking, and he is a master of his craft, utilizing a network of trusted contacts gained through travel and Imaginem magics to coordinate business and transfers. An old friend of Valgravian, he facilitated the''
''liquidation and transfer of old Bellaquin’s assets, transforming Bellaquin into a wealthy landowner in Andorra. While he envisioned the current incarnation of the covenant, he leaves management to Valgravian, focusing on financial matters. He is uninterested in the affairs of other members, and younger magi often find him intimidating. Strict and serious most of the time, he grows lighthearted and jovial amongst friends and family. Respectful of his fellow magi at Bellaquin, Constantine gladly provides them with whatever assistance he can, but he expects a favor to be repaid for a favor. He is an avid collector of coins, and especially seeks ones from distant or ancient lands. His sigil is a light dusting of gold appearing on the target or in the air around Constantine.''
''Robert Vasquez of Flambeau''
''Age: 59 (Apparent age: 42) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Protective of children +3, Honorable +2, Overconfident +1''
''Valgravian invited Robert to be the covenant’s champion. Chosen for his prestigious reputation as a skilled combatant and an honorable magus, he is a Flambeau with the Gentle Gift, which fit in with Valgravian’s vision. However, Robert insisted that Bellaquin invite the Blatantly Gifted Artemis as a member to assist him. Robert also brought his two children. His son, Michael, has become Captain of the covenant’s guards, transforming them into a disciplined and effective force. His daughter, Carmen, completed her apprenticeship at Bellaquin, passed her Gauntlet five years ago, and left the Tribunal. He is a widower, as his wife died from complications during childbirth. His sigil is a faint taste of ashes in the air.''
''Artemis of Tremere''
''Age: 49 (Apparent age: 33) Personality Traits: Disciplined +3, Loyal to Order of Hermes +3''
''Robert insisted upon Artemis’ invitation to Bellaquin based on her reputation for''
''dedication and discipline. Given the role of Guardian, she oversees covenant security. She works closely with Captain Michael, and the two have developed an attraction for one another, yet refuse to acknowledge it due to their dedication to duty and sense of propriety. Strong with Corpus magic, Artemis’ sigil is a dull aching of the teeth felt by those targeted or those near her during casting.''
''Antoinette of Jerbiton''
''Age: 26 Personality Traits: Expressive +2, Creative +2''
''Just a child of eight when the original covenant fell, she has truly only ever known the Andorra location. It is where she completed her apprenticeship. She has the Gentle Gift and nurtures a secret, unrequited love for Captain Michael—having watched him grow into the bold, capable man he is today. Antoinette has considered expressing her feelings for Michael, knowing she could give him children and her father, Constantine, grandchildren, but fears the repercussions with Artemis. She also fears Michael might learn of a dalliance with a certain Carolus of the Rhine Tribunal, an indiscretion from a Jerbiton fosterage at Oculus Sepentrionalis. She is willing to seek out a Verditius who might help arm Michael’s soldiers, or a certamen specialist able to teach her techniques to counter Artemis or discover the Tremere’s weak Arts. A budding Imaginem specialist, Antoinette’s sigil is the sound of barely audible whispers.''

==Covenfolk==

''Three groups inhabit the covenant, and some rivalry exists between them. During covenant relocation, Robert of Flambeau was invited to become a member and oversee security. One of his first actions was to hire a band of Almogavars to serve as custodes. He knew their captain and had his unGifted son, Michael, serve as the captain’s secretary and protégé. The second group, the original covenfolk, were mildly''
''resentful, but they had grown few in numbers and many were too old or uninterested in martial service. The third and largest group of covenfolk consists of Andorrans native to Ordino. They fill many miscellaneous roles as wage-earning employees, and a few fulfill specialist roles. Several miscellaneous minor groups also exist, as newer magi brought their own personal shield grogs. Artemis of Tremere is always accompanied by two wiry, leather-clad personal guards specially trained at Coeris, whom she calls “the Danior.” Whispered rumors claim these two men are actually homunculi, secretly fashioned constructs less susceptible to Mentem magics, easily repaired, and possessing a bloodthirsty tendency to twist Artemis’ orders. Trying to impress Michael and surpass the Tremere, Antoinette brought a quartet of Scandinavian warrior women back from an Itinerarium to serve as sanctum guards.''
''The Andorra Company''
''Robert of Flambeau recruited his band of elite Almogavars from Iberia and France. Bringing them together at Bellaquin, they formed the Andorra Company and took over the role of the covenant’s turb. There are roughly 18 soldiers in the Andorra Company, including two sergeants. Since the old captain was eaten by a mountain drake three years ago on a vis hunting expedition, Robert’s 30-year-old son Michael has held the rank of captain. The troops consider Robert to be the overall commander and Artemis serves as a second in command. Robert intends to equip each of these soldiers with at least one lesser enchanted device, providing them with added protection, increased stamina, or heightened senses, but he has only just begun this task.''

==Aedes Mercurii==

''Symbol: A fiery dragon eating its own tail''
''Just before the Schism War broke out, many of the Flambeau magi at Val-Negra left the domus magna, based on a vision one experienced, to form a separate covenant, and took a number of magi from other Houses with them. They seized control of a nearby outpost and the smaller halls scattered throughout the Pyrenees which once belonged to Val-Negra, including the great temple to Mercury from which they took the covenant’s name. After the Schism War, to help establish their legitimacy, they spread the idea that Val-Negra covenant itself was no more, and that Aedes Mercurii had inherited its legacy. The brutal and prominent losses suffered by the covenant during hostilities only reinforced this idea. Thus, the covenant is now considered to be one of the most powerful regional covenants, although it doesn’t match Val-Negra’s former glory.''

==Setting and Description==

''Aedes Mercurii has two locations. The first consists of a series of low utilitarian buildings surrounding a majestic stone edifice located in the center of the Cirque du Gavernie, about two miles north of Val-Negra. The main building is called the Temple of Mercury, and seems to predate the birth of Christ. Some tales claim members of the original Order of Mercury constructed it, others say Priamitus and other founders of the Cult of Mercury designed it to appear ancient. It stands three hundred feet long, surrounded by carved columns, with an elegant and beautiful interior and ancient altars on every side before the holy of holies at the eastern end. Usually called “the Temple” (Templum) by those at the covenant, this site is accessed from the other part via a large Mercere Portal built into an archway between two courtyards. The Magic aura throughout the Cirque and the outer buildings is 4, increasing to 8 inside the temple proper. The second location is the more wellknown site, built into the top of the distinc''
''tive Pic du Midi d’Ossau, which on a clear day is visible from Pau. Only 90 kilometers to the northwest of Val-Negra, Aedes Mercurii was originally established as a garrison for Val-Negra’s forces during the final conflicts in the early 900s, but it has been continually improved since. Pic du Midi d’Ossau is now an immense fortress, with many towers, domes, and rotundas carved out of the mountain’s interior. The exterior is grim and forbidding, especially when viewed from the narrow and winding path leading along the chasms of the Pyrenees to the entrance. Inside, the labyrinthine halls are a riot of conflicting styles, both grandiose and eclectic. It is enormous; even the magi who now live there do not know everything it contains, as new members usually add on to the existing structure. Many rooms once claimed by magi as labs and sanctums have remained undisturbed since their owners entered Twilight or died. The whole mountain has a pervasive Magic aura of 5. Since the main temple is typically accessed from here, this site is often referred to as “the back” of the temple (Dorsum). Various other sites have also been considered part of the covenant, though none as significant as these two. Until recently, there was a large outpost at the city of Saint Jean Pied-de-Port, but, disastrously, the covenfolk who lived there came under suspicion of witchcraft from the local citizenry and the house became a casualty of a war when Richard the Lionheart razed the city in 1177. At one time there was another''
''portal and entrance to the complex at the eastern edge of the Pyrenees, near Barcelona and north of Girona, though that too was abandoned, along with the portal to Val-Negra proper, at the beginning of the Schism War.''

==The Magi==

''Approximately 18 magi compose Aedes Mercurii, with 11 living at the Dorsum site, and the other 7 living remotely at the Templum. The covenfolk divide in more or less the same proportion. While the two settlements are part of the same covenant, over the years since the Schism War tensions have escalated between them. Though they still present a united front to outsiders, the magi living at the Templum and those living at the Dorsum have very different outlooks. Generally speaking, the Templum magi remain loyal to what they envision as the pagan and historical traditions of the Order of Mercury, while the only consistent quality of the Dorsum magi is their bitter opposition to Castra Solis and their perceived status as the inheritors of Val-Negra’s legacy. As part of their belief that they are the last uninterrupted magical descendants of the Order of Mercury, the magi of Aedes Mercurii consider themselves to be priests of the Temple, or Flamen, each associated with a Roman god or goddess appropriate to their focus of magic. In most cases, es''
''pecially that of the Tremere members, this is purely ceremonial and secular; declaring their patron god is like naming a spell after that god. Very few of those living at the covenant are actually pagan, worshipping their gods as anything more than high concepts, and those are generally seen as unusual. The most powerful faction at the covenant are the priests of Mars, who are almost exclusively House Flambeau, and the priests of Pluto, who are mostly House Tremere and thus have a good deal of political clout. House Verditius maintains a small and not-very-influential priesthood to Vulcan.''
''Flammarcus of Flambeau''
''Age: 121 (Apparent age 75) Personality Traits: Passionate +2, Ruthless +2''
''Flammarcus of Flambeau considers himself the leader of the covenant, and he calls himself the Pontifex Maximus. He is a priest of Mars, though like many who live at the Dorsum he is actually Christian and views the Mercurian priesthood as purely ceremonial. He idolizes Flambeau the Founder, and believes the magi of Castra Solis corrupted and revised the Founder’s history. According to his research, Flambeau was not a Mithraian, but a Mercurian, possessor of some of the lost rituals of the Order. His findings paint a very different picture from the commonly accepted history, though''
''most other magi believe him overzealous, and do not understand his fervor. He is passionately driven to become Primus as soon as Garus dies, and it seems he might be willing to do anything to achieve this goal.''
''Protendus of Tremere''
''Age: 112 (Apparent age: 83) Personality Traits: Reclusive +2, Secretive +2''
''Protendus of Tremere is the most senior magus of House Tremere in the Tribunal. He answers (somewhat reluctantly) to the Iberian exarch, whom he believes resents the fact that the House does not have a significant presence in the Tribunal. He has trained several apprentices, and encourages young Tremeres to distinguish themselves, but the House’s last enterprise twenty years ago (Lariander) failed for mysterious reasons, and he suspects that crusaders and the Merinita magi associated with Castra Solis were behind their disappearance. He is a member of the Vexillation of the Golden Thread, a secretive Tremere group dedicated to thwarting the twisty wiles of magi of House Tytalus, and he serves on the Aedes council as the priest of Pluto. He is also reputed to be a necromancer of unparalleled skill. For the most part, he remains aloof from Tribunal politics despite holding six sigils, often abstaining unless a decision impacts his House or a fellow Tremere advises him of important potential consequences. He prefers to act as a sort of unofficial, although tacitly sanctioned, Quaesitor. This unadvertised Quaesitor status and his Tremere rank allow him to better conduct unobtrusive investigations requiring discretion. Protendus keeps this secret by oaths enforced by certamen when necessary. He focuses on preventing the northern magi of House Tytalus from gaining a foothold in the region through unofficial channels and through methods Quaesitors might not usually use. So far he has been successful, though he suspects that the Tytali are now simply using the Mithraian members of House Flambeau and Castra Solis as their cat’s-paws.''
''Ophilio of Mercere''
''Age: 172 (Apparent age: 85) Personality Traits: Gregarious +2, Opinionated +2''
''Ophilio of Mercere lives at the Templum. He is generally respected by the other magi, though they tread carefully around him and he rarely shows his face at council, preferring to spend his time with the covenfolk. If he exerted authority over the covenant it would be grudgingly respected, as he was the High Priest of Mercury for many years, though he has since retired. Gifted, Ophilio is one of House Mercere’s longevity specialists.''
''Midius of Flambeau''
''Age: 94 (Apparent age: 50) Personality Traits: Loyal +2, Submissive +2''
''Midius of Flambeau is the current High Priest of Mercury, caretaker of the Templum and flamen for the Provençal Tribunal. He still thinks of himself as Ophilio’s subordinate, from his many years of serving beneath him in the temple, and is as ever desperate to impress the old magus. He attends Tribunal on Ophilio’s behalf.''
''Pila of Flambeau''
''Age: 103 (Apparent age: 79) Personality Traits: Couragous +2, Dedicated +2''
''Pila of Flambeau is a priest of Mars and responsible for the covenant’s defenses, duties she takes very seriously, and some would say fanatically. She is a staunch supporter of Flammarcus and his revised version of the Founder’s history. She also considers herself a true “Hoplite” as the term was once used in the Order and dresses like a Greek infantry soldier when going into battle. She looks surprisingly unassuming and mild otherwise. She resides at the Dorsum.''
''Malfortis of Flambeau''
''Age: 87 (Apparent age: 44) Personality Traits: Engaging +2, Expressive +2''
''Malfortis of Flambeau is another priest of Mars, though he is not particularly militant. He is an exceptional teacher and a strong writer, and has written a great many books in the covenant’s library. He fulsomely corresponds with anyone who writes to him, though he is generally not particularly friendly in his replies. He is also a staunch supporter of Flammarcus and his beliefs regarding the Founder. Unusually for a Flambeau, he fights barehanded and specializes in Corpus magic.''
''Ricardus of Flambeau''
''Age: 82 (Apparent age: 42) Personality Traits: Disturbing +2, Sensual +2''
''Ricardus of Flambeau is a priest of Bacchus, openly homosexual, and rumored to have lustful proclivities. Most of the other magi at the Dorsum find his company and interests distasteful, especially when they involve the many tractatus he writes. However, he is very social and tends to get involved in covenant business; few activities pass by the council without his input, and so he is often uncomfortably supported at Tribunal. He is said to be accomplished in the Arts of Creo and Mentem.''
''Aintza Ex Miscellanea''
''Age: 87 (Apparent age: 59) Personality Traits: Combative +2, Mysterious +2''
''Aintza Ex Miscellanea is one of the few priestesses at Aedes, and the leader of the Janus priesthood. She is a Hermetic Haruspex, one of a small group of oracular magi supposedly invited to join House Flambeau but who spurned the invitation and joined House Ex Miscellanea. She does not care about distinctions of sex, and certainly does not favor women over men; she believes that her lower status at the covenant is because she is House Ex Miscellanea, not because she is female. She is pagan, the primary Mystagogue for the Aedes branch of the Neo-Mercurians, and lives at the Templum with the other Haruspexes. She has a magical cat as her''
''familiar, named Elias, whom she believes is possessed by an aspect of the god Janus due to its strangely disfigured face. The cat has two mouths, two noses and three eyes. Azinta makes a special point of including him in all of her magic.''
''Ruberus of Verditius''
''Age: 99 (Apparent age: 41) Personality Traits: Concilatory +2, Relaxed +2''
''Ruberus of Verditius is the leader of the Confraternity of Roland, a group of Verditius magi dedicated to the construction of magical swords (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 121). One of the few magi at Aedes Mercurii with no complaint with Castra Solis, Ruberus admires and respects Garus, the Flambeau Primus. However, deep within the mountain of the Dorsum, one of the forges of Hephaestus smoulders, and as the priest of Vulcan he is also the caretaker of this important site. This requires that he maintain cordial relations with his covenant-mates and conceal his friendship with Garus. He also greatly admires and even secretly loves Dama, the Praeco, and would do almost anything to protect her.''
''Berezi the Redcap''
''Age: 48 (Apparent age: 35) Personality Traits: Prone to Wanderlust +2, Proud +2''
''One of the resident Redcaps at the Dorsum goes by the name of Berezi, and is a descendent of one of the Milvi Antiquiti (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 98), often spending her two seasons of service traveling between Aedes Mercurii and her mother’s home covenant in the Roman Tribunal to obtain and deliver books for the magi of western Provençal. She possesses a magical device that allows her to transform herself and anything she carries into the shape of a bird.''

==Miniata Sophia==

''Symbol: A white hand, fingers pointed up and spread apart, on an ochre circle''
''This Spring clutch of Criamon magi live within the Niaux cave, roughly a day’s ride south of Foix. Hidden in the Vicdossos valley, a short journey north from Castle Miglos and the village of Niaux, they maintain a fairly isolationist attitude, rarely traveling beyond their home and the surrounding hills. However, the group has attended Tribunal for the last four gatherings, always voting and participating knowledgeably in discussion and debate. They have shown no clear preferences and have entered into no political alliances. They vote for options on issues that they deem the most morally apt, or they abstain.''

==History==

''Founded by an eremite Criamon roughly 40 years ago, Miniata Sophia has begun interacting with the rest of the Tribunal only relatively recently. They announced themselves at the Tribunal gathering in 1193, registering their site with the Redcaps as the village of Niaux.''

==Setting and Description==

''Miniata Sophia stretches throughout the Niaux cave system—a subterranean labyrinth winding through 3 kilometers''
''of galleries, formations, grottos, and most importantly, antediluvian wall art. The main gallery has dozens of paintings of horses, oxen, bison, antelope, and handprints, but samples are scattered throughout the tunnels. The ancient depictions are what drew the covenant’s founder, Leonarda, to the site. Here, they have created a working relationship with the covenfolk in the village while pursuing an aspect of the Criamon philosophy, a variant of the Path of Walking Backwards (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 70). The cave has a Magical aura of 4, and the main gallery has an aura of 5.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Established within the cavern system, Miniata Sophia believes in a self-sufficient existence with little impact on the surrounding community. They sustain a very small collection of covenfolk in an unusual manner. The magi each take turns spending a season living as a guest amongst the villagers, sharing their Parma with a town “ambassador” and assisting with tasks necessary for the continued operation of the town. They avoid practicing magic in front of covenfolk, and try to ensure that the most helpful spells are cast under the cover of darkness. They do not perform lab work during this season, wearing the robes of a leper to both hide any Enigmatic Stigmata and discourage outsiders from approaching them. It also helps foster the cover story, which explains the magi as hermits, seeking enlightenment within the cave. Every three days, the magus in Niaux brings supplies to the mouth of the cavern, where another member meets them and takes the transfer of goods. The period is considered a necessary aspect of The Avenue of Surrender and the Station of the Service to Harmony for newcomers and a regular reminder of the lesson’s importance. The rest of the time, the magi study their Arts, the texts they trade via correspondence, and the cave paintings, attempting to decipher their secrets and the hidden magic traced within the pigments. Leonarda believes them to be an expression of the Enigma, and has incor''
''porated them into the later initiations of The Avenue of Healing and the Station of Rice and Honey, The Avenue of Adulation and the Station of Expression, and The Avenue of a Thousand Beautiful Faces and the Station of Exaltation. She has not yet reached the Avenue of Silencing Discordant Whispers and the Threshold of Repose, nor does she yet know how she would incorporate the art of Miniata Sophia into the initiation.''

==The Magi==

''Four magi live at Miniata Sophia; Leonarda, Tumbarius, and Hans are detailed below. There is one other member of Miniata Sophia, a Criamon adherent to the Path of Walking Backwards.''
''Leonarda, Follower of Criamon''
''Age: 89 (Apparent age: 57) Personality Traits: Pious +3, Calm +2, Nurturing +2, Patient +2''
''Leonarda is from Aragon, on the far side of the Pyrenees, but learned of the many caves and their paintings from a fellow Criamon during a visit to the Cave of Twisting Shadows shortly after her Gauntlet. Deciding she wanted to seek a new route for her path, and believing there was ancient wisdom to be found within the first homes of mankind, she set out to establish a sanctum in one of these caves. After wandering for some time, she found Niaux, and began her research. Over time, she established a relationship with the villagers, and they were happy to receive her help on many occasions. Leonarda’s specialties are Creo, Rego, Corpus, and Vim, and she used these talents to create the relationships which have kept the covenant so well-informed. In exchange for twice-annual visits, Leonarda performed a Longevity Ritual and provided the Redcap Embeth with a pair of boots which allow her to perform a Leap of Homecoming. Embeth occasionally points interested Criamon to Niaux, but only after interviewing them and conferring with Leonarda.''
''Tumbarius, Follower of Criamon''
''Age: 40 (Apparent age: 40) Personality Traits: Open-minded +3, Inquisitive +2, Ruthlessly dedicated +2''
''A magus from Northumbria, Tumbarius is a Mentem specialist, focusing on ghosts and spirits. Although nominally Christian, he actively seeks epiphanies from ancient philosophers, apocrypha, Judaism, or Islamic scholars. He has recently begun corresponding with a number of the kabbalists in Arles, attempting to work the shape of the Tree of Life, or Etz haChayim, into his labyrinthine meditations. He suffers from serious arthritis, which bothers him most in the winter months when he serves in Niaux. He has a callous attitude toward spirits, feeling they simply have another chance in the next Cycle.''
''Hans, Follower of Criamon''
''Age: 54 (Apparent age: 40) Personality Traits: Cheerful +3, Sociable +2, Curious +2''
''The second son of merchant from Aachen, Hans was initially enrolled in a seminary as a youth. A visiting Criamon with a sensitivity for The Gift recognized his aptitude and offered him a chance at another life. Insatiably curious, and a student of languages, Hans loves his time in the village of Niaux and the children there call him “Grandfather Hans.” His Gentle Gift allows him to interact quite amicably with the populace, and he is the favored ambassador with the town. He feels that while he seeks the answer to the Enigma, he should also enjoy his time in this life to its fullest while living as aptly''

[|

==Story Seeds for Miniata Sophia==

''A number of issues could draw player characters into interacting with Miniata Sophia.''
''Multiplicity of Wisdom''
''A magus seeking the mysteries of Fertility magic (Ancient Magic, page 54) might try to discover the location of Miniata Sophia after interacting with members at Tribunal. The Criamon value their privacy, however, and require a very close and trusting relationship before they permit an outsider to visit even the covenfolk in Niaux. A fellow member of the Order arriving by chance, however, would not be turned away—simply asked to make a promise never to reveal the site’s location. It is possible that Louis VII may attempt to seize the town as a strategic resource in 1226–1227, when the count of Foix challenges Louis’ attempt to enforce the king’s royal rights on the area. The royal French forces may include inquisitors seeking out Cathar heretics, especially since the count of Foix is married to a Cathar. Once a magus does visit the cave, investigation reveals a regio exists. Easily accessible via magic on the new moon, equinoxes, and solstices, it leads into a very ancient magical version of the cave, where antediluvian shamans dance and''
''drum while painting further pictographs on the walls. The only “accidental” method of entry is to be drumming or painting on the cavern walls by firelight on a solstice. The Criamon sometimes visit this regio to perform the final initiation into The Avenue of Adulation and the Station of Expression.''
''Aptly Put''
''An issue involving the resources of the covenant is slated for the coming Tribunal, and it looks like defending the characters’ position requires the backing of Miniata Sophia. The magi must find a way to convince the Criamon of the morally apt nature of their position — or reveal the immoral basis of their opposition. Doing so means digging up the dirt and investigating the motivations of their opponents through the sort of social interaction only possible in a place where all the magi are present — the Tribunal itself! Can the magi discover what they need to gain the support of Leonarda and her fellow Criamon before the matter is brought to vote? Do they have the legal acumen and debating skills necessary to delay the Tribunal proceedings or bring about a stalemate?''

|]
''as possible. He is in no rush to find his way down the Path. His specialties are in Rego, Imaginem, and Terram.''

==Covenfolk==

''Quite unusually, there are no dedicated grogs at Miniata Sophia. The Criamon feel they do not need them. The village itself is under the protection of Arnaud de Miglos, the local viscount and vassal of Foix, who keeps a garrison within his castle. The villagers of Niaux, who (mostly indirectly) supply the covenfolk, have always paid their taxes on time and adequately, and in doing so have never drawn undue attention. A few of the covenfolk are the sort of hunting specialists who could serve as grogs, if absolutely necessary, but they primarily help augment the covenfolks’ diet and serve as sentries only by virtue of their wide-ranging duties. There are a couple of better trained, widely-traveled covenfolk who occasionally venture abroad for items desired by the magi, but more often than not, this insular community continues to operate in quiet seclusion, regularly delivering small quantities of iron mined from the hills and processed into ingots or rod stock.''

==The Basques==

''The Basque Country covers much of the Pyrenees, especially in the west and along the Bay of Biscay. This overlaps portions of the Iberian and Provençal Tribunals, including both Upper and Lower Navarre and Gascony. The Basques form an independent ethnic and linguistic group, but one without a national identity. The Basque term “Euskaldun” translates as “one who speaks the Basque Language.” Although casually used to refer to themselves as a people, the definition includes other people who learn to speak Basque and excludes Basques who don’t speak the language. Basques currently share the region with Franks and Spaniards. They have also partially assimilated other cultures through intermarriage, but remain a distinct and separate people, resisting any attempts to dislodge or assimilate them.''

==Basque Country==

''The region considered “Basque Country” has shifted over the centuries, growing, shrinking, and fragmenting several times. However, it has always centered on the Pyrenees, mainly in the west but having stretched further east in the past. The seven provinces considered Basque Country fall within the domain of the kingdoms of France, Navarre, and Castile in 1220. However, they retain a great deal of autonomy within their communities, maintaining their language and traditions and often ownership of their land. The provinces of Álva, Biscay, and Gipuzkoa are part of Castile, which also contains a few Basque settlements in other regions. Labour, Lower Navarre, and Soule are part of France. Upper Navarre, dominated by Castile, is the province with the largest concentration of Basques, but they are the most assimilated into the culture and nobility of the Spaniards.''

==Language==

''Euskara is the ancient language of the Basque people. Unrelated to any other tongue, it shares influences with those languages it encounters. Dialects vary by region, and Basques often speak other regional languages. In fact, for some Basques, Euskara may be a second tongue, with Occitan or another language as their native speech. Medieval Euskara uses the Latin alphabet, but in the distant past it utilized Ancient Iberian. The Basques maintain a unique system of numbering, which takes the form of strange and seemingly arcane shaped symbols representing numbers from 1 to 100 and most fractions.''

==History==

''Basque mythology claims they inhabited the land after seizing it from the giants (Jentilak) and other beings. Early Basques made use of the mysterious Iberian alphabet, and likely interacted with the Iberians, the Celts, and Gauls. The historian Strabo records the Vascones tribe inhabiting the region now called Basque Country. Roman contact extends back to the 1st century AD, when Julius Cae''
''sar mentions the Basques. The Romans never significantly developed the region, other than forming alliances with local people and establishing a garrison in Pompaelo (Pamplona). Many Basques joined their legions, deploying to distant places like Hadrian’s Wall and Byzantium. In the fifth century, Basque legions commanded by Romans defeated barbarian invaders such as the Alans, Suevi, and Vandals. Despite their efforts, Germanic tribes eventually crossed the Pyrenees and brought the fall of Imperial rule. The Visigoths and the Franks pressured the Basques, who persevered and established the independent Duchy of Vasconia in the sixth century. This demense eventually submitted to the Franks with the Moorish invasions and Charlemagne’s rise. Basque resistance persisted, however, with the most famous example being the Battle of Roncevaux Pass. From the ninth and into the tenth century, the southern Basque provinces made up the Kingdom of Pamplona. Under King Sancho III, their power extended into Castile, Aragon, and Gascony. After his death, Pamplona was partitioned between Castile and Aragon, with Gascony being absorbed again by the Franks. Garcia Rameriez briefly restored the kingdom in the mid-twelfth century, but this was eventually subsumed by Castile. The Castilians annexed western Basque Country, forming the provinces of Álva, Biscay, and Gipuzkoa. By comparison, Upper Navarre is cut off from the rest of Iberia, trapped between Castile and the Pyrenees, with Lower Navarre and the other Basque provinces under French control on the other side. Nevertheless, Basques still enjoy a great amount of autonomy in their lands. They are intermarried and integrated with the aristocracy and form a majority of the population. However, northern (Navarre) Basques more strongly identify with Occitan language and culture than Euskara. The southern (Castilian) provinces retain self government through fueros, charters granted by the Aragonese king guaranteeing their rights. The French provinces retain no special privileges, but the people are not often harassed. Medieval Basques lack a sense of unified national identity, and retain private ownership of their lands, rather than serving as the peasants of ruling nobles, so they are content with the current state of affairs.''

==Faith & Flame Culture==

''The Euskara language forms the primary feature of Basque culture. It embodies most aspects of their society and beliefs. For instance, family names derive from descriptions of geographic features or birthplaces, such as Errekondo (next to the stream), Goikoetxea (the house above), and others meaning “by the rock,” “the old house,” “on the mountain,” or “by the ocean.” This custom demonstrates the Basques’ strong attachment to family and home. Compared to their neighbors, Basque women enjoy increased influence and equality in society, but their culture is undoubtedly a patriarchy. Men hold most of the dominant positions and control the majority of property. Usually only a few elder women aggressively participate in community leadership. The father acts as head of the household and inheritance favors sons. However, daughters do receive inheritance from mothers, women own and control property, hold official positions, and voice their opinions in household and community affairs. In pagan times, Basque women participated in ecstatic magical ceremonies forbidden to most men. Basques adopted Christianity in the fourth and fifth centuries. There are bishoprics in both Pamplona and Urgell. However, weak participation in early Synods and a paucity of Christian grave markers suggests a protracted conversion where Christian traditions slowly replaced pagan beliefs. By 1220, the overwhelming majority of Basques are Christian, and the persistence of old customs is the same as for other medieval cultures. Still, they quietly allow a small pagan minority to practice their beliefs, so long as no one menaces the community. Basques even permit Jews and Muslims who intermarry or learn their language to dwell alongside them. Historically, Basques had little or no conflict with heretical groups, and heretic characters in your saga might seek similar tolerance amongst them. Known as a vigorous mountain people, Basques foster a strong tradition as hardy sailors engaging in whaling and cod fishing. They use longboats or larger vessels launched from shore, and recently began using an innovation known as the rudder. Basque sailors work on merchant and naval ships from the Atlantic and Mediterranean, to the Channel, the North Sea, and beyond.''

==Mythology and Magic==

''Considered a chthonic religion, Basque paganism focuses on the veneration of earthbound deities and natural forces and contains various “unclean” ecstatic rituals. Mari, an earth-mother goddess who capriciously''
''brings fortune or calamity to the land, dominates the mythology. In legends, she rides a chariot of thunderclouds drawn by massive goats, or meets with Sugaar, her consort, to mate—both activities create further storms or droughts while sowing the both the seeds of good and ill fortune upon the people as''

[|

==The Song of Roland==

''In 778, Charlemagne crossed the Pyrenees, attempting to repel the Moors. He initially liberated Barcelona, but the stalled siege of Zaragoza forced his return to Gaul. The great emperor’s forces were attacked three times in their retreat. First, the Moors ambushed him en route to Navarre. Then the rebellious Basques of Pamplona led an attack. Finally, when the main forces had crossed through the pass at Roncevaux, the true attack came. Basques claim guerillas ambushed the rear guard, equipped with only spears and shortswords, and wearing no armor. In truth, a monumental force of 400,000 Saracens, employing Basque guides and Jentilak mercenaries, attacked Roland. In a savage battle stretching across the valley, they defeat''
''ed the Franks and plundered the baggage train while killing Charlemagne’s nephew Roland, the force’s commander. Another ten years passed before Charlemagne permanently liberated Barcelona and established the Pyrenees Marcher Kingdoms. The popular chanson de geste known as the Song of Roland tells how Roland fought valiantly against the 400,000 Saracens, but ultimately fell. Other stories, popular among the Basques, tell of the Basque guerillas. Faeries thrive on human myths, and when they desire chosen mortals to relive and interact with this tale, depending on who they attempt to deceive or manipulate, Roland alternately battles either the Moors or a small group of clever and bold Basques.''

==Common Basque Names==

''Female Names''
''The following are common female Basque names followed by their significance in Euskara or English equivalent. Abene (“pillar”), Aintza (“glory”), Alaia (“joyful, happy”), Alazne (“miracle”), Amaia (“the end”), Berezi (“special”), Bihotz (“heart”), Elixabete (Elizabeth), Erlea (“a bee”), Eskarne (“mercy”), Esti (“sweet, honey”), Euria (“rain”), Garbi (“clean, pure”), Goizane (“morning”), Haizea (“wind”), Hilargi (“moon”), Hirune (“trinity”), Ihintza (“dew”), Itsaso (“ocean”), Itzaro (“hope”), Izar (“star”), Kattalin (Katherine), Kistiñe (Christina), Lore (“flower”), Maia (Maria), Maialene (Magdalene), Maite (“lovable”), Nahia (“desire”), Nekane (“sorrows”), Nere (“mine”), Oihana (“forest”), Osane (“cure, remedy”), Udane (“summer”), Usoa (“dove”), Zuriñe (“white”)''
''Male Names''
''The following are common male Basque names followed by their significance in Euskara or English equivalent. Amets (“dream”), Argi (“light”), Arkaitz (“rock”), Bakar (“alone”), Eder (“handsome, beautiful”), Edur (“snow”), Eguzki (“sun”), Ekaitz (“storm”), Endika (Henry), Erlantz (“glow, shine”), Erramun (Raymond), Frantzisko (Francis), Ganix (John), Garaile (“victor”), Gorka (George), Gotzon (“angel”), Hodei (“cloud”), Igon (“ascension”), Itzal (“shadow”), Izotz (“ice”), Joseba (Joseph), Kemen (“courage, vigor”), Marko (Mark), Matia (Matthew), Mitzel (Michael), Oroitz (“memory”), Patxi (Francis), Peio (Peter), Sendoa (“strong”), Txomin (Dominic), Unai (“cowherd”), Xanti (Santiago), Zeru (“sky”), Zorion (“happiness”), Zuzen (“just, fair”)''

|]
''it pleases them. Mari dwells in a remote mountain cave, the exact location changing depending on the teller of the tale. Sugaar is the legendary Great Dragon of the Pyrenees, and the genius loci of the mountain range. He claims power over storms and the fates of both heroes and villains. He commonly manifests as an enormous serpent up to seven hundred feet long, varying with the Might of the Aspect. Other forms include a large black ram, a tremendous thunderstorm, a great dragon, and even a human warrior. Sugaar purportedly fought a battle against the Archangel Michael. Michael feared the dragon, and relied upon his faith for courage. Victorious, Michael bound Sugaar to the Pyrenees as an earthly spirit (a genius loci). Indeed, be''
''cause of this earthly nature, Mari and Sugaar truly are chthonic; sorginak rituals may contain hedonistic components, and their deities dwell in the underworld. Mari and Sugaar spawned many offspring in addition to storms. Their children include drakes, wyrms, multi-headed dragons known as herensuge, and the venomous dragons known as vibria, vouivre or wyverns (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 74 & 75 for examples). Mari has taken many human lovers over the centuries, and many powerful women claim descent from her or one of her daughters. Mikelatz, the son of Mari and Sugaar, is a fearsome, wild spirit who can take the form of a huge warrior, a raging red bull, or a large thunderstorm. He inherited the powers of a sorgin from his mother, the ferocity''
''of the dragon from his father, and has special powers concerning storms and male virility. Another scion, Atxular, was sired by a pious man seduced by Mari. Wicked and malicious in youth, he practiced black magic taught to him by a corrupt priest. After discovering his mentor’s demonic nature, Atxular repented, embracing Christianity and thereafter reluctantly using his powers to protect innocents from dark forces. A popular folk hero, Atxular symbolizes the conversion of the Basques and embodies hope of salvation. He also provides justification for Christian Basques who continue to practice sorginak magic; they protect the community from pagan demons. Jaun Zuria, the White Lord, was the son of Sugaar and a Scottish princess he visited in human guise; later he became the first Lord of Biscay. Other prominent figures in Basque myth are the jentilak, giants who ruled the land before the arrival of humans. The jentilak created the enormous stone monuments and other ancient structures scattered through the land. They taught the Basques tool use, agriculture, and metallurgy. They invented a game involving tossing large rocks back and forth, which still exists as a sport amongst the Basque people. According to one legend, jentilak fought alongside the Basques at the Battle of Roncevaux, helping defeat Roland’s forces by hurling boulders at them. However advanced, they eventually retreated to mountaintops, where they have slowly faded away. Nearly extinct, a few jentilak remain as magical creatures or masquerading faeries dwelling deep in the mountains. For example, Olentzero is a jentil who visits''

[|

==Estranged Relatives==

''Basque tolerance and the sense of unity based upon a shared language do not apply to a subgroup within their own community—”the Crestias,” a people treated as outcasts (Consider the Outcast or Social Handicap flaws). They share the same language and many of the same cultural traits as other Basques, but have some distinctly different physical features and some dissimilar customs. They cannot own armaments, horses, or dogs, can only marry among themselves, and live segregated within the community, permitted only the poorer portions of the land. They have a separate entrance''
''at church with segregated pews, and a screen often obscures their view of the altar and consecration. No one remembers why the Crestias are outcast. Other than appearance, the differences are subtle. Most Crestias are Christian, though they have a larger pagan minority and cling to more old superstitions compared to other Basques. Euskara slang refers to them as “not (of the) people.” This could mean they are not truly Basque, or they are the unassimilated remnants of one or more of the many people that have tried to dislodge or subdue the Basques like the Visigoths, Vikings,''
''Suevi, Celts, Iberians, or even the mysterious Tartessians. An ominous double meaning might imply the Crestias are not fully human, descended from some mysterious supernatural heritage. Among sorginak at akelarre (a folk witch gathering discussed later in this section), reverence replaces the disdain held by mundanes (a Crestia who regularly participates might have the Temporal Influence virtue). Crestias among the sorginak are allegedly more skilled with powerful, dark forces. Perhaps they possess a proclivity for such magic, or perhaps it is part of the stereotype.''

==The White Lord==

''Jaun Zuria was a Basque noble born in the village of Mundak sometime in the 10th century (during the Kingdom of Pamplona). His mother was a Scottish princess and wife of Lemor MacMorna, an Irish knight in service to King Lekobide of Euskadi. Lemor died in battle, but his bride claimed he had visited her that night and sired a child, whom she named Jaun. It was an imposter; the dragon Sugaar in human form was the true father of Jaun Zuria. Jaun grew to be bold and adventurous, the king’s favorite knight, eventually falling in love with and marrying his daughter Luz. He led the fight''
''against Leon at the Battle of Arrigorriaga, slaying King Ordono and leading Pamplona to victory. As a result, he ruled over Biscay and received the title Zuria, Euskara for “White Lord.” Kingdoms shatter, borders change, and allegiances shift. Pamplona faded, becoming Navarre, and Castile annexed Biscay along with Alva and Guipuzcoa in 1200. However, the blood of the dragon persists as Mythic Blood, Magic Blood, or Blood of Heroes. Diego Lopez, current Lord of Biscay, led the vanguard during the victory at Las Navas eight years ago. He claims this lineage, as do his relatives and descendants.''

|]
''near Christmas leaving toys and treats for children. While reclusive and shy, the giants actually thrive with companionship based on a begrudging yet deep friendship. An ancient race, they adopt a mentor role in relationships. Exceptional blacksmiths and farmers, they refuse to learn more advanced crafts or Academic Abilities. A jentil would make an interesting option for a Faerie Friend, Supernatural Warder, or in an extreme example a Faerie Familiar. The cyclops-like tartalo, which also hunt in the Pyrenees, are sometimes thought to be degenerate jentilak with bestial temperament and man-eating habits. The laminak (singular: lamia) are the river fae of the Pyrenees. Consummate builders and craftsmen, they combine many of the traits of brownies and tritons. Known for their textile-spinning skills and building acumen, laminak reputedly instruct sorginak and build bridges, churches and homes for those who agree to their bargains. These deals often involve meals, marriage, even a student’s soul. However, stories claim if a petitioner steals a lamia’s golden comb, the lamia has no choice but to serve. Aker are goatmen who lurk near the meadows pocketing the hills and valleys of the Pyrenees. Sorginak often summon them to harass enemies or teach the secrets of the weather and land or the healing properties of local plants, or even to celebrate akelarre alongside a coven. Demons occasionally masquerade as Aker, attempting to corrupt sorginak by offering to teach Infernal abilities. (See Guardians of the Forests, page 50, and use statistics for the bockman.).''

==New & Modified Virtues & Flaws==

''The following Virtues & Flaws are presented with Basque characters in mind, but may apply to characters in different sagas. Those applicable only to sorginak hedgewitches are presented elsewhere.''
''Faerie Blood: Jentil''
''Minor or Major Supernatural Virtue You claim descent from the race of giants who once ruled the lands of the Basque Country. Though now defeated and virtually ex''
''tinct, your ancestors created enormous stone monuments, and invented both metallurgy and agriculture. Their legacy lives in you. As a Minor Virtue, this grants you a +1 bonus to resist aging, a +1 bonus to recovery rolls, and a +1 increase in Strength, to a maximum of +3. This Virtue is compatible with Large and Giant’s Blood. As a Major Virtue, it grants Second Sight, replaces the bonus to recovery with a +1 increase in Size, and increases the bonus to resist aging to +3 while disregarding aging rolls until age 50. The Major virtue marks you with a distinctive appearance indicating your ancestry, such as oversized hands and feet or exaggerated facial features.''
''Faerie Blood: Laminak''
''Minor Supernatural Virtue Descended from the river fae of the Basque Country, you favor either their hardworking or beautiful nature. You may add +1 to either your Stamina or Presence, but not to more than +3. Many mortals find you intriguing, but don’t understand why. Characters with this Virtue have webbed toes.''

==The Sorginak==

''The sorginak (singular: sorgina, male: sorgin) are Basque folk witches descended from (and some still serving as) the priestesses of Mari. An unGifted sorgina can live a quiet existence in a Basque settlement, dispensing wisdom and minor magical assistance to those who know of her abilities (mainly women). The Gifted sorginak live on the fringes of settlements as reclusive outcasts. Some are trained as folk witches (Hedge Magic, page 31). Others are trained Hermetically, and with greater power and the negative effects of the Gift, they tend to bully their weaker sisters while vying with each other for dominance. An uncertain number of Gifted sorginak reside in the Tribunal. About nine sorginak live either in or near Bayonne in the county of Labourd, and one, Rebecca, with the Praeco in Mimizan. They are trained as folk witches. Others are spread between the county of Béarn, near Pau, the county of Soule and several villages in the Pyrenees. In 1220, there are at least 61 un''
''Gifted sorginak spread between 13 covens located in the western Provençal Tribunal and the northwest corner of Iberia. Most possess only two or three Supernatural Abilities of little significance. They communicate frequently, trading information, favors, apprentices, and vis to each other in a very tightly knit network of hedge magi. Only the Gifted sorginak (who have all taken the Oath) are considered members of the Order of Hermes, and most Gifted and unGifted sorginak defer to Dama in Mimizan. Three Gifted and Hermetically trained sorginak do not participate in Dama’s cult of personality, each living alone but forming their own distinct faction from the other covens. Otherwise, all sorginak prefer to meet only with members of their tradition, finding little in common with most Hermetic magi. Sorginak gather together in meetings called “akelarre,” where the folk witches venerate their goddess, cast rituals, air grievances, and discuss current events. Akelarre are held in caves and stone circles on mountain clearings. These meetings, held on Friday nights, once drew many more women to participate in ecstatic ceremonies, but these witches still meet more frequently and in larger covens than others of their ilk from different lands. Far more of their peers live over the Pyrenees in northern Iberia, and periodically there are great conclaves of sorginak in the Zugarramurdi cave. Despite their pagan roots, not all sorginak are heathens. Many unGifted sorginak dwelling amongst Christian''
''Basques either converted or formed a dual system of belief. Without The Gift, they cannot learn the full range of Preferred Abilities of a sorgina, but disdain many as unclean or unnatural magic.''

==Sorginak History==

''The power, presence and influence of the sorginak has faded since Charlemagne marched south. Many Basque women participated then, either as witches or as acolytes assisting in ceremonies. Gifted witches commanded a combination of respect and fear, and unGifted witches participated in many Initiations under their guidance. Three factors combined to weaken their power: the introduction of Christianity, attacks by other hedge wizards, and the rise of the Order of Hermes. Christianity’s arrival coincided with a growing dissatisfaction by the Basques concerning the pagan religion and its dark magic. Many sorginak were considered unclean or suspected of heinous sins. Communities shunned and ostracized sorginak, only tolerating those who quietly practiced beneficial magic, and then only if they did not suffer the negative effects of The Gift. Invading barbarians and Moors forced the sorginak to defend their magic auras and vis resources from Suevi sorcerers, Visigoth artificers, Moorish Sahirs, and others, suffering many casualties. Battered and weakened, the sorginak''
''easily came under the dominance of Hermetic magi. Magi apprenticed many male Basques with The Gift, whom the sorginak generally rejected. Primus Apromor of Flambeau was Basque, and House Flambeau and Tytalus absorbed others. These men became full Hermetic magi, completely severed from sorginak traditions. The Diedne, however, assimilated sorginak magic into their own traditions and accepted female and male sorginak within their House. This generated some discord and other sorginak often banned Diedne sorginak from akelarre. The unGifted, Initiated folk witches remained beneath the notice of most magi, and the more powerful held the Order in suspicion because of their Diedne rivals. A few sorginak eventually joined House Ex Miscellanea, but not until 955. Their tradition suffered a weak start, resented by their hedge sisters and cautious to create a perceived distance from the Diedne. During the Schism War, several Ex Miscellanea sorginak defected to other Houses such as Tytalus and Merinita in order to prove their loyalty. Others hid, regaining the trust of their non-Hermetic sisters by sharing (but not teaching) their Parma Magica and protecting them through the conflict from opportunists looking to settle grudges or claim sources of vis. The Order of Hermes has accepted a few sorginak into House Ex Miscellanea over the years, but almost without exception they are Gifted rather than Initiated. Gifted sorginak in the Order tend to follow the Folk Witch tradition, rather than use standard Hermetic Arts. The Order has some influence in most covens, if only through intimidation, but a few remain reclusive and several Gifted sorginak shun the Order, living unaffiliated. Any covenant in Basque Country will have some sort of interaction with a sorginak coven, perhaps cordially neutral, but usually some sort of alliance or enmity (as per the Hedge Tradition Boon or Hook).''

==Akelarre==

''Akelarre is the Basque term for the sabbat of the sorginak, but also refers to the location where these meetings take place.''

[|

==Story Seed: Claim the Comb==

''A magus, seeking a pagan wife, might try to steal the golden comb of a lamia. Laminak are forbidden to tread on sacred ground, making the fae an excellent choice for a wizard living in a covenant''
''set far from civilization and one likely to produce a faerie-blooded heir. She may resent the theft, however, and conspire to escape along with any of her children''

==Story Seed: Power, Unorganized==

''The many sorginak do not attend Tribunal, and most are recognized as eremites within the Tribunal. A Tytalus or Trianoma seeking to break the larger''
''covenants’ political chokehold might attempt to seek out and befriend the sorginak, explaining the value of a united front at Tribunal gatherings.''

|]
''The sorginak meet more frequently than most other folk witch traditions, gathering at least one Friday a month for most covens and every Friday for the most active ones. A special akelarre is held a few times periodically throughout the year, drawing sorginak from multiple covens to a single location for a sort of Grand Sabbat. UnGifted and very pious sorginak try to avoid these meetings, but they are often bullied by their Gifted pagan sisters in animal form, and pressured into making periodic appearances. Mundane women are sometimes harassed into attendance, both for the appearance of swelled numbers and to assist in ceremonies.''

==Sorginak Magic==

''In game terms, the sorginak are a folk witch tradition, as described in chapter 3 of Hedge Magic. Some covens involve darker elements in their magic, like the manipulation of spirits. The primary difference is that the Cursing ability may be replaced by a variation of Hex, and sorginak may Initiate certain new Virtues.''

==Favored Abilities==

''The seven Favored Abilities of a sorgina are Animal Ken, Dowsing, Flight, Healing, Hex (or Cursing), Second Sight, and Shapeshifter. UnGifted sorginak must purchase these as separate Virtues, and obviously cannot begin with them all. A Gifted sorgina begins with all seven of these Abilities, with variations depending upon the nature of her coven and lineage. Some aspects of these abilities are considered sinister, and pious sorginak and those who do not wish to be tainted avoid them. Hex is considered unclean, and Shapeshifter is considered unnatural. Many sorginak have the Skinchanger Virtue in place of Shapeshifter, which is considered acceptable, and some have Wilderness Sense replacing Hex or another ability. A few have Premonitions balanced by Visions at no extra cost.''

==Initiations==

''The sorginak reputedly practice wicked initiations and unclean magic. Most sorginak Initiation Scripts contain pagan elements, but there exist a few “clean” variations for many of the basic Favored Abilities. The Inner Mysteries have their basis in a more sinister nature, and no effort has been made to revise them as they are kept secret from non-sorginak. These include the Goetic Arts of Summoning and Command, Ecstatic Magic, a modified version of Chthonic Magic, and their own version of Ceremony. Details of these Virtues and Arts are discussed below. Initiations take place at an akelarre, and follow the usual rules.''

==New & Modified Virtues & Flaws==

''The following new Virtues and Flaws are available for sorginak characters, some during character creation and others only from Initiations (see Initiations, above). These can be used as ideas for other witches as well.''
''Chthonic Sorginak Magic''
''Major, Supernatural This grants a variant of the Supernatural Ability of Chthonic Magic beginning at a score of 1. Similar to the Hermetic Virtue, this magic, said to spring from instruction by Mari, grants the sorgina the ability to tap into sinister powers. The sorgina is attuned to both the Magic and Infernal realms. She gains botch dice from neither, and enjoys the benefits of both. She can use Infernal vis without penalty, and adds her Chthonic''
''Magic to her Folk Witch Magic Theory when determining how many pawns of Infernal vis she can use in a season. Neither Faerie nor Magic-aligned detection can sense this tainted Infernal alignment, but Divine and Infernal powers can. Finally, if she incorporates a knowingly blasphemous action in her magic, the sorgina gains a +6 bonus to the roll or total in question, and she may optionally incorporate Casting Items to also add their Shape & Material bonuses (up to her Folk Witch Magic Theory score). She does not gain the additional Ranges, Targets or Durations ordinarily associated with Chthonic Magic, such as Crossroads, Cursed, or Passion. See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 123 for additional details.''
''Ecstatic Magic''
''Minor Supernatural Virtue The sorgina gains the ability Ecstatic Magic at 1 and she may stray from her body in an intangible spirit form for one hour during akelarre with a successful Stamina + Ecstatic Magic + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 12. For every 3 by which the roll exceeds the Ease Factor, the sorgina may stray for an additional hour. While straying, she may move with a Stamina + Athletics roll (Ease Factor 3) to visit places she sees daily. For every 3 the roll exceeds the ease factor, she may travel to places she has seen in the last week (Ease Factor 6), the last year (Ease Factor 9), not been in the last year (Ease Factor 12), and places she has never been but possesses an associated arcane connection (Ease Factor 15). While straying, she has the Second Sight ability equal to her Ecstatic Magic ability. The character manifests any carried accoutrements and may harm spirits in''

[|

==Male Sorginak==

''Uncommon, but slightly more prevalent than those found in other folk witch traditions, male sorginak are perceived as inept or effeminate by mundane society, and receive less training with their magic than their female counterparts. The Minor Flaws of Social Handicap and Poorly Trained Folk Witch are recommended, as well as one''
''or more Flaws in their use of magic. A sorgin skilled with his magic or perceived as effective and masculine is rare. To possess both these qualities is very rare, and those who do are thought to be descended from Mikelatz, the son of Mari and Sugaar, lord of the raging storm. A sorgin still transforms into a lamia with sufficient Warping.''

|]
''intangible form; spirits may also harm her. She may become tangible with a Stamina + Concentration roll (Ease Factor 12), and may be harmed normally when tangible. She must make an additional roll to remain tangible if wounded; wound penalties apply to the roll.''
''Sorgina''
''Free Social Status Virtue The character is a member of the folk witch tradition of the Pyrenees, with members in Provence and Iberia. Basque villagers respect or fear the character, but members of the Church might persecute a sorgina for heretical behavior. This Virtue is equivalent with the Folk Witch Social Status (See Hedge Magic, page 34) and may be taken in addition to the Hermetic Magus Social Status Virtue. It is also compatible with many other Social Status Virtues and Flaws, and with Wealthy and Poor. The character has been trained as a sorgina. She may perform folk witch laboratory activities such as brewing potions, she uses sorgina casting methods with her Supernatural Virtues and gains the associated magical defenses, and she is a member of a coven who attends akelarre meetings. As she is not supported by a covenant, like a magus is, she must spend two seasons each year supporting herself– normally by performing magical services for the local community. She may not take Virtues and Flaws associated with Witch’s Moon. (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 42)''
''Existing Virtues & Flaws''
''Hermetic Virtues & Flaws suggested for Folk Witches are listed on page 36 of Hedge Magic Revised Edition. The Folk Witch Virtues & Flaws detailed in that chapter also apply to the sorginak. Further suggestions follow. Note that since Folk Witch powers are based on a single Ability, a Magic Focus would not be appropriate. Instead, use Potent Magic, granting a bonus to Casting Scores and Lab Totals to magic within a specified field (+3 Minor, +6 Major), and allowing her to incorporate Casting Items into powers that require preparation time.''
''Major Hermetic Virtues: Major Potent Magic, Mythic Blood Minor Hermetic Virtues: Minor Potent Magic Other Minor Virtues: Intuition, Wise One''

==Sorginak Powers==

''The magic of a sorgina is much the same as any other folk witch (see Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Chapter 3). The complexities of that system are too numerous to summarize here. Troupes lacking access to the book are encouraged to improvise by substituting similar spell-like effects. This section explains the few ways that the sorginak powers are different from other Folk Witches.''
''Casting Methods''
''Sorginak use the same Casting Methods as other folk witches, with a few slight changes.''
''Potions: Sorginak brew drinkable potions, but are also create alternative applications such as herbal salves or incense. Potions can be used with Animal Ken, Dowsing, Ecstatic Magic, Flight, Healing, Premonitions/Visions, Second Sight, Shapeshifter, and Wilderness Sense. Incantations: Sorginak incantations use the Euskara language. Incantations can be used for any sorginak Ability except Ecstatic Magic. This is a greater range than other Folk Witches. Fetish: Sorginak use Fetishes the same ways as other Folk Witches. They are employed for Dowsing, Flight, Hex, Shapeshifter, and Wilderness Sense. Skinchanger is not an Ability, but Fetish is still the Method used.''
''Hex''
''Characteristic: Communication Form: Vim Method: Incantations, Fetish Magical Defense: Accelerated Expiry; Defense against effects that target her by Voice or Arcane Connection.''
''Sorginak cast hexes to cause misfortune to others, similar to the way other Folk Witches use Cursing, but calling upon malicious darker forces. This is the same''

[|

==The Many Faces of Mari==

''Mari takes many forms and has many names, and is represented in multiple Realms. Mari is essentially a Primal Spirit (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 109), a Kosmokrator, an earth-mother goddess governing weather and fortune, and a protector of the ruling class. As such, Mari is also a Daimon that can manifest in multiple different aspects. As a being of magic, Mari has no need of human interaction and cares little for their activities. Indeed, she is often portrayed as shallow and capricious. Faerie manifestations of''
''Mari exist, craving adoration and manipulating the fates of humanity in her role as a mistress of fortune. These versions of Mari derive power from their worship, communing with sorginak priestesses at akelarre. Demons likely impersonate Mari, or she may be Infernally tainted. This would explain the darker chthonic aspects of her worship and the magic of the sorginak. The truth is hard to discern. A magical Mari wouldn’t care about the existence or activities of imposters, the deceptions of a demonic Mari could not be penetrated,''
''and the Pretenses of a Faerie could account for any of these details. Regardless of the Realm association of a particular manifestation, Mari’s facets remain the same. She usually appears as a lovely young woman wearing a flowing red gown, but can also manifest as a woman radiating fire, a woman-shaped tree, or a thunderbolt. As a shapeshifter, she favors animals with red hides, like a cow, a mare, or ewe, but also a black male goat, which suggests an Infernal aspect or the presence of a demonic imposter.''

|]
''power described in Realms of Power: Infernal, affiliated with the Magic Realm and modified as described. Hexes are still Infernally Tainted, a detail imperceptible to Magic or Faerie investigation but readily apparent to Infernal or Divine power. If using Incantations to hex someone, the sorgina must make eye contact with or touch the target, and the target must be able to hear her incanting the rhymes alluding to the ill fortune that awaits him. Alternatively, using a Fetish requires incorporating an Arcane Connection to the specified target and a Season of preparation. The fetish may be used once and the hex specified when it is prepared, but it can be retained and invoked at any later time the sorgina chooses, from any distance (as long as she holds the fetish). If she uses a prepared fetish in addition to incantations (within Eye/Touch range), she gains a +1 bonus to her Penetration Multiplier. The sorgina must specify a time-frame within which the hex takes effect, anywhere from immediately to a lifetime. Hexes are more difficult if they manifest quickly, and longer delayed hexes are easier. The Ease Factor is based on Severity, modified for Duration and Delay.''
''Hex Casting Total: Communication + Hex + Aura + Stress Die vs Ease Factor (Severity + Duration + Delay)''

===Hex Ease Factors===

''Base Severity	 Examples 6 Minor Ensure Failure, Cause   Minor Misfortune,   Bestow Minor Flaw   for duration, Manipu  late target for duration 12 Serious Cripple Sense or Limb   for duration, Trans  form Target for duration 18 Major Inflict Major Disease,   Cause Major Misfortune,   Bestow Major Flaw for   duration 24 Critical 	 Cripple or Incapacitate   someone, Cause Aging   Crisis 30 Terminal	 Death or Ruination''
''Mod Duration +0 Momentary +3 Hour/Simple Condition  (any common superstitious cure) +6 Day/Minor Condition  (a simple specific task) +9 Moon/Moderate Condition  (a demanding or complex task) +12	 Season/Major Condition  (a difficult and challenging task) +15	 Year/Ultimate Condition  (a vague or impossible task)''
''Mod Delay +12 	 Moment +9 Hour +6 Day +3 Week 0 Month –3 Season –6 Year –9 Generation –12 	 Lifetime''
''Premonitions/Visions''
''Characteristic: Perception Form: Imaginem Method: Potion or Incantations Magical Defense: Fluctuating Fortune (Art & Academe, page 134), Defense in situations where she could avoid effects with a roll, such as Defense, Soak, Personality Traits, and so on. See ArM5, page 67 and page 60.''
''For a sorgina, the Premonitions Virtue is''
''always linked with the Visions Flaw. Sorginak use Premonitions normally, activating them through the invocation of a daily prayer, and Visions come to characters in dreams.''
''Wilderness Sense''
''Characteristic: Perception Form: Animal, Auram, Herbam, Terram Method: Potion, Incantation, or Fetish Magical Defense: Magical Fortitude, Defense against wilderness and weather related effects See ArM5, page 67.''
''Summoning''
''Characteristic: Presence Form: Vim Method: Incantation Magical Defense: Immovable Object, Defense against effects that try to move or conjure her See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 114.''
''Commanding''
''Characteristic: Communication Form: Vim Method: Incantation Magical Defense: Immovable Object, Defense against effects that try to control or manipulate her. See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 117.''

[|

==Example Hexes==

''The Warty Prince Ease Factor: 21, Duration: Simple Condition, Delay: 1 Day The target is transformed into a toad at sunrise the next day; receiving a kiss breaks the hex. (Serious transformation 12 + Simple Condition 3 + One Day Delay +6)''
''Silence the Mighty Knight Ease Factor: 21, Duration: Moon, Delay: 1 Day The target wakes tomorrow with the''
''Incomprehensible flaw for the next Moon. (Minor Flaw 6 + Duration: Moon 9 + Delay: Day +6)''
''A Sleeping Scion for Stolen Lands Ease Factor: 18+, Duration: Simple Condition, Delay: Generation The target’s first child falls asleep on reaching the age of majority until the sorgina’s land is returned. (Incapacitate 24 + Simple Condition 3 + Generation Delay –9)''

|]
''Ecstatic Magic''
''Characteristic: Stamina Form: Mentem Method: Potion Magical Defense: Accelerated Expiry, Defense against effects that try to affect her mind or control her body. This ability is similar to the ability of Nightwalkers, as described in Hedge Magic''
''Revised Edition, page 104.''
''Unlike a nightwalker, a sorgina may not take anyone with her, may only stray during akelarre, may not take alternate forms while intangible, and may not affect dreamers. While intangible, she has all the limitations of a straying nightwalker, including: appearing dead while straying, having the Magical Air Flaw''
''while intangible, suffering any injuries on her physical form inflicted on her intangible form, vulnerable to harm from any spells that affect spirits or ghosts while intangible, and vulnerable to harm while tangible from anything that would harm their mundane physical form. A straying sorgina must Penetrate an Aegis of the Hearth, or any ward against people or spirits, to pass through it.''

[|

==Potent Magic==

''Minor or Major Hermetic Virtue The maga’s magic is particularly attuned to a narrow field, much as in a Magical Focus. The benefits of Potent Magic are compatible with a Magical Focus; unlike a Magical Focus, a magus may have more than one area of Potent Magic, though only one Potent Magic Virtue applies to any single activity. Potent Magic provides the maga with a bonus in her field of magic, and permits her to devise Potent spells which gain a casting bonus from the sympathetic magic in shapes and materials. Potent Magic can be taught as an alternative to a Magical Focus. For sorginak, it may be taken during character creation.''
''Description''
''Minor Potent Magic covers the same narrow fields as a Minor Magical Focus, granting a +3 bonus to Lab Totals and Casting Score. Major Potent Magic covers the same, wider, fields as a Major Magical Focus, granting a +6 bonus to Lab Totals and Casting Score. A maga with Potent Magic may also invent new Potent Spells (see below) within the field of her Potent Magic, and may vary spells she knows.''
''Potent Spells''
''A Potent Spell has a bonus known as its Potency, which derives from combining one or more Casting Items into the design of the spell. Casting Items use the''
''factors given in the Shape & Material Bonus table: each Casting Item provides one bonus. (If more than one bonus is possible, the spell design states which one is used.)''
''Potency: sum of bonus from each casting item''
''Any magus can learn a Potent spell from a Lab Text or Teacher, and apply Potency to his Casting Score. Potency is always limited by your Magic Theory score. If a spell’s Potency exceeds your Magic Theory score, you cannot learn or devise such a spell. Potency is part of the spell design; a Lab Text for a Potent Spell includes the specified Casting Items and Potency score. A Magus teaching a Potent Spell teaches the formula they know, including the Casting Items and Potency score. To cast a Potent Spell, the caster must touch the specified Casting Items. The items need not be large: they may be small and symbolic (for example, a shield-shaped brooch is still symbolically a shield). Example: a Wand provides several bonuses including +2 “repel things” and +4 “control things at a distance.” A Potent version of Disguise of the Putrid Aroma could use either bonus in its Potency. Combined with Magnetite (+3 Animal) allows a design with either Potency 5 (requires Magic Theory 5) or Potency 7 (requires Magic Theory 7). The caster must hold a wand and piece of magnetite (or a wand set with magnetite), and adds Potency to Casting Score. Potency applies only to formulaic spells — spontaneous magic allows Ceremonial Casting to produce similar results,''
''and enchanted devices use Shape & Material bonuses during enchantment.''
''Potent Magic and Potent Spells''
''A magus with Potent Magic may create new Potent spells or alter Potent spells to vary the Casting Items. When inventing a spell within the field of his Potent Magic (including from a Lab Text), the magus simply chooses Casting Items for the design, and then invents the spell as normal. Each chosen Casting Item (up to the limit of Magic Theory) adds a single Shape or Material bonus to Potency. (If more than one bonus might apply to the spell, choose one and note it in the design). The total Potency may not exceed Magic Theory. A Lab Text written for this spell includes the Casting Items and Potency, and is usable by any other magus. In addition, a magus who knows a spell within the field of their Potent Magic may invent a variant spell with different Casting Items. If the only difference is a change in Casting Items, they may invent the variant in a single season. A magus cannot learn a Potent Spell if Potency exceeds their Magic Theory, so some of these spells are powerful but very difficult to learn.''
''Designing Covenant Libraries''
''When creating a Covenant and choosing Lab Texts for the library, add Potency (if any) to spell level when counting Build Points, and record the casting-items required.''

|]

==Faith & Flame Warping==

''Certain lineages of sorginak do not experience the Witch’s Moon. While part of their lore, their magic changed (or was corrupted), and these covens instead experience Ecstatic Catharsis. Similar to the Trollsynir (as experienced by gruagachan), the process gradually physically transforms the sorgina into one of the laminak. Ecstatic Magic makes resisting Catharsis more difficult, but increases the chances to benefit from it. Some call these witches “True Sorginak.” Whenever a sorgina receives two or more Warping Points from a magical botch or other event, she may undergo Catharsis. While experiencing Catharsis, the sorgina suffers a sort of seizure, falling to the ground and convulsing in ecstasy, as the magics affect her body. The sorgina has one opportunity to avoid the experience.''
''Catharsis Avoidance Total:''

===Stamina + Concentration + Premonitions + Stress Die Vs. Warping Score + Number of Warping Points Gained + Ecstatic Magic + Local Aura===

''If successful, she spends a few minutes bringing her ecstasy under control.''
''Avoidance Time: 40 Rounds minus (Avoidance Success + Second Sight)''
''If she fails, she undergoes Catharsis. If she botches, she cannot Assimilate Catharsis and suffers Debasement. A sorgina may choose not to resist Catharsis, instead embracing it willingly, attempting to quickly Assimilate it. Regardless, the sorgina now attempts Assimilation.''
''Catharsis Assimilation Total: Intelligence + Ecstatic Magic + stress die vs Warping Score + stress die''
''Time Spent in Ecstasy: One hour per point of Warping Score''
''Reducing Time Spent in Ecstasy:''
''Cost: 1 Confidence Point  Time Spent becomes: Warping – (Stress Die + Perception +''

[|

==Tradition Ex Miscellanea: Hermetic Sorginak==

''Occasionally, a sorgina will be trained Hermetically by one of the few magi belonging to the descendants of the coven which managed the Hermetic integration of sorgina powers. They tend to aggressively protect their secrets and look down upon other sorginak, knowing they are far more powerful than their sisters. This creates jealous rivalries which occasionally erupt with fatal results. When such a feud involves only sorginak, neither party tends to involve Quasitors or Redcaps; they feel it is “sorginak business.” The first sorginak joined the Order of Hermes in the 10th century, inducted by members of House Flambeau searching for resources to turn against the Moorish invaders of Iberia. The sorginak provided limited assistance through their traditional Folk Witch powers, and in the end, turned inward to care for the Basque communities where they lived. However, one coven continued working with a pair of Bonisagus brothers on sorginak''
''integration with Hermetic Theory. They succeeded, but most were killed shortly afterwards (and before widespread publication of their findings) by drakes lured to their covenant by Moorish Sahirs. By 1220, the tradition remains very small, as most members or descendents of the original coven perished before training a successor.''
''Key Facts''
''Favored Tribunals: Provençal, Iberia, a very few in Normandy Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: One Major Sorginak Ability (Healing, Hex, Shapeshifter, or Summoning) Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary Condition (Potions, Euskara Incantations, and Fetishes) Minor Hermetic Virtue: Exotic Casting''

|]

===Second Sight) Hours, See Later.===

''If successful, the sorgina Assimilates Catharsis, achieving Epiphany. Unsuccessful Assimilation results in Debasement. Either way, Catharsis is accompanied by an ecstatic reaction. The sorgina is incapacitated with intense sensation and cannot comprehend the world around her. This leaves her vulnerable until she manages to control her ecstasy. The time necessary to control the sensations is not based upon Assimilation success or failure. Rather, ecstasy lasts one hour per point of her Warping Score. She may attempt to gather her wits by force of will, by spending a point of Confidence and using Second Sight to discern reality. Rolling a Stress Die + Perception + Second Sight, subtract that many hours from the recovery time. If the result is 0 or less, the sorgina regains control instantly. She is not confused, and is not forced to make any Concentration rolls. If the attempt botches, multiply the time by (1 + the number of botches). Cathartic Ecstasy lasting extremely long periods of time can have detrimental effects, such as Long-Term Fatigue and deprivation. Once the sorgina reaches a Warping Score of 10, she becomes one of the laminak and is no longer human. Laminak are river fae who live near the edge of settlements, unable to step on hallowed ground, but performing tasks such as plowing and bridge building in the night. Seven sorginak laminak supposedly directly serve Mari. Once fully transformed into laminak, the storyguide assumes control of the character. Suggestions for Epiphany and Debasement are as follows.''
''Epiphany''
''Increased Knowledge: The sorgina gains experience points in a pre-existing Su''
''pernatural Ability, equal to (the character’s Warping Score + a simple die). Sorginak Virtue: The sorgina gains a new sorginak Ability, Mystery, or other Virtue. Lamia Virtue: The sorgina gains a Virtue appropriate for laminak. Examples include: Entrancements, Faerie Blood (laminak), Great Presence, Puissant Charm, and Venus’ Blessing.''
''Debasement''
''Lost Knowledge: The sorgina loses experience points in a pre-existing Supernatural Ability, equal to (the character’s Warping Score + a simple die). Sorginak Flaw: The sorgina gains a new Supernatural or Hermetic Flaw. Lamia Flaw: The sorgina gains a Flaw appropriate for laminak. Examples include: Curse of Venus, Delusion, Disfigured (chicken, goat, or webbed feet), Envious, Lecherous, Obsessed (obtain and keep a gold personal comb), Offensive to Animals, Tainted with Evil, Weakness (personal comb).''

==Hermetic Considerations==

''Relative to other traditions, the sorginak comprise a relatively large and well organized community of hedge wizards. However, they are concentrated in a small area dominated by a more powerful magical tradition, the Order of Hermes. In several situations, sorginak have come into conflict with Hermetic magi, and rivalries still occur occasionally. However, these are minor affairs, and most sorginak covens cooperate with the Order or try to avoid it. Basque magic has been of interest to several magi in the past, and some aspects have been incorporated as new Virtues. There is also a small Ex Miscellanea tradition of sorginak, but most Basque magi are actually of a tra''
''ditional Latin House. There are also Gifted Basques who have pursued other forms of Hermetic magic, the most famous being Apromor, the filius of Flambeau and first Primus to lead that House. Many Basque magi, and especially those of House Ex Miscellanea, possess the Minor Hermetic Virtue of Exotic Casting.''
''Exotic Casting''
''Minor, Hermetic The magus uses non-Hermetic methods to cast Hermetic spells. While he still needs to employ obvious ritual actions, these are not the same words and gestures taught as part of Magic Theory within the Order, and other magi who are unfamiliar with the magus’ tradition find it very hard to recognize which spell he is casting. Any attempt to determine the Form of his magical effect (ArM5, page 83) is made against an Ease Factor of 15, without the magnitude of the effect being subtracted from this Ease Factor as normal. If the character has any Supernatural Abilities, then he uses the same methods to cast his Hermetic magic as he does to use his non-Hermetic magic. The magus cannot choose to use the standard Hermetic methods instead of those of his native tradition, but can choose to reduce or forgo words and gestures in the usual fashion (ArM5, page 83).''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
