
[|
''The eastern march of the Provençal Tribunal was the site of the first Roman settlements outside Italy. The medieval culture of the Church and the towns of the so-called Kingdom of Arelat and Provence overlie a tapestry of ancient Roman and Gallic ruins. Encompassing the area of the Kingdom of Lower Burgundy, it is bounded by the Rhone in the west except for the small County of Viviers, the town of Beaucaire, and the area of Lyonnais appended across the river. It stretches east along the Mediter''
''ranean coastline toward the Maritime Alps just past Nice. Over the last millennium the area was beset with repeated waves of barbarians: Franks, Lombards, and Saracens, only to be finally conquered by the armies of Charles Martel. In the 13th century it is more peaceful, and is a blossoming heart of the troubadour culture that is to spread throughout southern Europe. The area’s indistinct northeastern boundary lies just beyond the monastery of Grand Chartreuse somewhere near the''
''border between the Dauphine Viennois and marches up to the lands of Count Thomas of Savoy in the territory of the Greater Alps. The current settlements of the Order, however, all lie further to the south in the lands of the County and March of Provence proper. Proud of their status as heirs of the Roman Provincia, the original southern Lotharingian covenants began a tradition of preserving their original Latin names for all official documentation. Like the Romans before them, the original Hermetic settlers''

=Arelat=


==113 113==


|]
''of the region have left many ruins behind them as lasting reminders of the difficulties of Hermetic cooperation. Recently, this cooperation has been more successful, however. The heirs of the various ruined covenants forged together their disparate holdings and abandoned many of the smaller sites to form a greater multi-site Hermetic community or coenobium. Although outwardly benign, this alliance has increased its influence throughout the region to the point where it has a stranglehold on most readily accessible magical resources. The nominal mundane overlord of''
''Provence and the Kingdom of Arelat is Frederick II, the Holy Roman Emperor. He holds the somewhat empty title of the King of Arles but exerts only limited influence in practice through his imperial viceroy at Arles, the young prince of Orange, Raymond I of Baux. The most powerful magnate is the Catalan scion, Ramon Berenguer V, Count of Provence and now Forcalquier, recently released from imprisonment in Aragon in 1219. The young Count of Toulouse still claims the area known as the March of Provence, but many of the local lords acknowledge him only when it suits them. In''
''contrast to the Hermetic situation, much of the area is independent, controlled by minor lords or chartered towns such as the great river communes of Arles and Avignon. So far the region has escaped the devastation of the Albigensian Crusade, although several of its communes (and perhaps some of its magi) have lent discreet aid to both sides of the conflict.''

==The Legacy of Fraxinetum==

''The now disbanded covenant of Fraxinetum (Latin: “ash forest”) took its name from the surrounding groves of ash established by one of the founding magi, Sayyid Shajarat al-Darda. He was reputedly an Andalusian Flambeau Herbam specialist from northeastern Iberia, but House Flambeau deny this background. They claim Sayyid was a renegade from their philosophy, corrupted by his Tytalan lieutenant Nasr ibn Amaf. Some mutter he may even have been a Tytalus-trained infiltrator from the start.''

[|

==Arelat Covenants==

''Current Covenants: The Coenobium Rhodanien Secret Covenants: Fraxinetum Redux Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Barbegal, The Birds of Camargue, Castra Peccaius, Elisii Campi, Fraxinetum, Glanum (I and II), Telo Martius, Turris Masci, Portus Cottiae, Portus Termini, Yf''

==Saga Seed: The Rise & Rise of the Coenobium==

''Considered by its members to be an exemplar of Hermetic cooperation, some other magi of the Tribunal believe the Coenobium to be an increasingly despotic power bloc. The multi-site covenant controls nearly all of the area’s significant magical resources and dominates the local hedge magicians (see later for further details).''
''Some fear the Coenobium will attempt to dominate the disorganized Tribunal in the wake of the recent Albigensian Crusade. Perhaps they will do so in a less aggressive manner than the raiders under Sayyid, but some wonder if the might of the right is worse than that of the initial wrong that forged them. Whose side will the characters choose?''

==Not the Lotharingian Tribunal…==

''Originally, the region within the Provençal Tribunal now referred to as Arelat was part of the Lotharingian Tribunal. This early entity ceased to exist after the Grand Tribunal decision of 898 that reassigned many of the northern covenants to either the Normandy or Rhine Tribunals. The rump left behind, comprising the lands of the Kingdom of Arles along the banks of the Rhone and scattered settlements in the Toulousain, became known as the Provençal Tribunal. The magi of the Coenobium have little interest in the northern political movement sponsored by the Apple Gild of the Rhine led by Daria of Triamore and known as the Lotharingian Movement (see The Lion and the Lily page 14 and Guardians of the Forest page 29). Apart from a shared desire to be free from strict interpretations of the Peripheral Code concerning interfering with mundanes, in Hermetic terms, they share little culturally or politically with the Flemish covenants. The Coenobium magi mainly see themselves as set apart from''
''the rest of the Provençal Tribunal. Their mundane servants consider themselves part of neither the distant Holy Roman Empire, nor tributary to the Counts of Barcelona. The current Provençal political situation is to their advantage, and overall they feel there is no incentive to join a gang of northern secessionists. Similarly, Alazais, the Chief Redcap and leader of the Coenobium, has no plans for her covenant to strike out on its own and form a separatist southern Tribunal. To do so would require the fragmentation of the multi-site network of sancta into at least four separate covenants, a move which would weaken the Coenobium’s greatest strength, its united defensive stance. However, individual Tytalus magi may have strong cause to infiltrate the Coenobium and undermine its power, setting the stage for the a wide ranging conflict that may transect the Order (see “The Lotharingian Movement” insert in Chapter 10: Normandy Sagas of The Lion and the Lily, page 114–115 for further details).''
''Unknown to the Tribunal for its first century of existence, this small cadre of Andalusian magi secretly supported the Cordobansponsored attacks on Provençal cities staged from the Moors’ base within the Massif des Maures above St Tropez. Several smaller coastal covenants fell readily to the Moorish forces under suspicious circumstances, although these machinations went unnoticed by the Quaesitores for some time. The capture and ransom in 973 of Maieul, the Abbott of Cluny, and the Moors’ continual encroachment into the foothills of the Alps eventually combined to provoke widespread alarm. The predominantly Jerbiton magi of the eastern lands of the Tribunal were forced to act. Drawing on their mundane family connections, their supporters within the Church and sympathetic allies amongst the nobility of Provence, the magi of several weak covenants founded a mutual protection pact. No overt Wizard’s War was declared, but the Hermetic coalition subtly supported the mundane army amassed by William I of Provence. The bulk of the Moorish forces were routed at the Battle of Tourtour. Following a successful siege of their base, the Fraxinetum magi disappeared into the deeper forest and then seemingly disappeared. Their Moorish allies set sail back to Andalusia, leaving the coasts of Provence temporarily free from the pirates’ scourge. The remaining Provençal magi, having learnt the value of cooperation and the benefits of acting through mundane forces, re-established themselves as the multi-site covenant that has become known as the Coenobium.''

==The Rhone Valley==

''Known as “the Bruiser” to the local boatmen, the Rhone is famed for its fierce currents, shallows, and spring floods making navigation difficult. Travel by barge is possible up to about Macon. The river combines with the Saone at Lyon to flow through the great furrow of le sillon rhodanien between the Massif Central to the west and the foothills of the Alps to the east, forming the southwestern frontier of the Holy Roman Empire.''
''The land is poor and hot, swept by the fierce Mistral. The region is known for its luxury goods: wine, honey, limes, and olives. A major trade route from north to south since pre-Roman times, only four bridges cross the great waterway — the ancient bridge of Lyon built on a forest of oak piles, the Roman stone bridge at Vienne, the newer Pont St Benezet of Avignon and a lesser wooden bridge at Arles linking the main settlement to Trinquetaille on the west bank. Travel from Macon to Arles takes about 3 weeks due to the river’s navigational difficulties. At Arles, the goods are transferred onto smaller sailing barges for the last stage to the sea and then by larger ships or galleys''
''onwards to other ports. Travel upstream is aided by hitching barges to teams of draft horses or using magic to offset the effect of the current, but typically takes at least one to two weeks longer.''

==Avignon==

''This town has dominated southern Provence since its commune was established in 1129. Considered semi-independent of the Holy Roman Empire and holding no allegiance to the local Catalan count of Provence, it is one of the central sites of the Coenobium''

==115 115==


==The Hermetic Toll and the Price of Hospitality==

''All magi openly visiting Avignon are asked to stop here and announce their intentions and length of stay, in line with the rules of Hospitality promulgated by House Jerbiton. The various Redcaps of the Tribunal, encouraged by Alazais, have made it known that a silver florin containing a pawn of vis should be donated as a gesture of good will. This vis is used to help support the non-Jerbiton Hermetic specialists retained by the covenant. Magi conceding to this local custom receive a consul to guide and assist them during their stay. The consul is responsible for the magus’s conduct while in the town, leading some visiting magi resent the imposition of a potentially meddle''
''some minder in their private affairs. Those magi declining the offer of hospitality and its complementary responsibilities are held to be in poor taste and watched closely by the covenfolk. Disruptive guests openly flaunting their presence or using magic to affect mundanes within the city draw the attention of the ex-hoplite Xiphos or the covenant’s nonHermetic allies. Although the Coenobium may stop short of declaring Wizard’s War on a recalcitrant visitor, they seek to subtly disrupt and obstruct the offending magus thereafter, including manufacturing charges at Tribunal. Although seemingly peaceful on the surface, the Coenobium’s long and patient reach is inexhaustible when seeking redress.''

==Boats of the Rhone==

''The utriculari, or boatmen of the Rhone, form a powerful guild in the 13th century, controlling trade along the waterway. Although nominally based in Beaucaire, the largest concentration of guildmembers resides in Arles, where the majority of shipments transfer to ocean going vessels. Barques du Rhone — These large barges, typically linked in trains of 5–7 craft and drawn by teams of over 50 horses along the banks, provide the main means of transporting large bulk goods from the northern markets to the Mediterranean. The magi of the Coenobium''
''secretly use at least one of these barges as a floating laboratory, mooring the vessel along the banks or tributaries in areas with significant Magic auras. Coches d’eau — These “water coaches” are used by important travelers and nobles and either use sail or are drawn by horse. Jerbiton magi prefer this travel method over magic but the coaches are not usually available to Redcaps on mundane errands. As most riverboats are marked with a cross or other religious symbols for protection, many magi incorporate subtle wards within these designs to ease their journey.''

|]
''(see section later for further details). The Order of Canons of St. Rufus, the patron saint of Avignon, maintain an abbey, church and hospice just outside Avignon, near the Rhone. The grounds have a Divine aura of 3.''
''Pont Saint-Bénezet''
''These 22 arches of stone span the low-lying Isle de Barthelasse in the midst of the stream. The eastern end contains a drawbridge to prevent access via the Porte du Rhone into the city, but the great gatehouse remains incomplete. In the early years of the 13th century the''
''unpaved bridge is still intact. A small chapel dedicated to St Nicholas of Myrna exists above the third pier from the east bank. It contains the interred body and relics of St Benezet, and is a site of veneration for many of the Rhone boatmen as they journey along the river supplying their livelihood. At the centre of a small Divine aura of 4, the chapel covers the first few piers of the bridge only. A retired Redcap and former boatman known as Jorin serves as the chapel’s doorman, reporting to his Hermetic superiors of the Coenobium.''
''St Andre''
''Built on Mont Andaon above the western end of the bridge, this prosperous abbey-town dominates the road to the commune of Avignon and provides lodging for the pilgrims traveling to Santiago de Compostela along the Way of St James. The abbey shelters the bones of St Casarie, a sixth century Visigothic hermit-princess and is blanketed by a strong Divine aura of 4. The abbot of St André is a distant relative of the Les Baux family, and one of the most powerful local landowners. More open-minded than many churchmen, he''

[|

==Drac, Lesser==

''Common to the Rhone and its tributaries, the lesser drac are aquatic Faerie drakes that lure their helpless prey (washerwomen, children, or vagrants) into watery lairs through their illusory powers. Feeding on the fear the stories of their predations cause, these dragons are very different from Orms and act out stories in the role as Child Stealers or Sexual Predators. They possess some or all of the powers attributed to their elder namesake and are encountered along the more sinister sections of the Rhone’s tributary streams. This version of the drac represents a younger dragon but is not designed for use as a player character. A Faerie enchanter of magus level power using this creature as a template is possible but would require dropping several Virtues and additional Pretenses to provide balance.''
''Faerie Might: 15 +10* (Animal) * Denotes increased Might from the Place of Power Virtue Characteristics: Cun +1, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Focus Power (Crafter of Illusion), Greater Power (Gift of the Drac); Faerie Beast, Improved Powers, Increased Faerie Might x2, Personal Power x1 (Transform into Human), Place of Power (the Rhone near Beaucaire), Reputation as Confidence, Rhone Regio Network; Cruel (Major), Monstrous Appearance**; Incognizant. **	 Some more civilized drac spend the''
''majority of their time disguised in human society as boatmen, washerwomen or merchants. These particular Faeries lack the Monstrous Appearance Major Flaw and substitute the Infiltrator Virtue (Minor or Major depending on the Social Status Virtue mimicked) and Dark Secret Flaw instead. The more sociable drac may even be Narrowly Cognizant and usually possess Faerie Speech and additional Pretenses that help maintain their role. Personality Traits: Cruel +3 Reputations: Watery threat 3 (local) Combat:  Bite: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +6***  Grapple: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +9, Damage na ***	Includes a +3 bonus for Crushing Jaws: reflects the fact that although these dragons are not particularly strong compared to humans, the muscles with which they bite down are tremendously powerful. The muscles which open its mouth are comparatively weak. A human may hold a drac’s jaws closed with a successful Grapple. Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1, (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Rhone 4 (hiding places), Athletics 2 (lunges), Awareness 3 (prey), Brawl 5 (grapple), Concentration 2 (remaining invisible), Folk Ken 2 (river folk), Hunt 4''
''(prey), Occitan 6 (Provençal), Stealth 4 (stalking prey), Survival 3 (river), Swim 2 (rivers) Powers: Crafter of Illusion, 0–5 points, Init 0, Imaginem. A drac can create illusions, particularly to lure its prey, by spontaneously producing the effect of any Creo or Rego Imaginem spell of fourth magnitude or less at a cost of (magnitude) Might points. Focus Power, 2 Intricacy points to increase magnitude of effects, 3 intricacy points to improve Initiative. Transform into Human, 3 points, Init 0, Animal. This allows the drac to turn into human size from its larger natural size. MuAn 30 (Base 10, +2 Sun, +2 size): Personal Power (30 levels). Gift of the Drac, 3 points, Init –3, Aquam. Allows a person grappled by the drac to breathe easily underwater until they resurface in the Drac’s air-filled lair or escape to the riverbank. MuCo 30 (Base 4 +1 Touch, +4 Until, +1 Part): Greater Power (30 levels). Vis: 3 Imaginem in eyes Appearance: In its true form, the creature is a greenish-black worm with a long sinuous body girt with webbed legs like a flamingo and vestigial fin-like wings of blue lace.''
''The statistics above represent a small adult drac, just grown into maturity. Their strong illusory powers allow them to move silently, become invisible, and change their appearance readily in human form.''

|]
''secretly maintains good relations with the magi of the Coenobium. The clergyman sometimes entertains the more respectable of the local hedge wizards. Characters refusing the hospitality of the Coenobium may approach the abbott to allow them to lodge in the appropriately named Tower of Sorcerers, but any arrangement requires discretion or risks arousing the ire of the local bishop or the interests of the Coenobium.''

==Beaucaire==

''Beaucaire (Occitan: “beautiful rock”) across from Tarascon on the western Languedoc bank of the Rhone is nominally part of the County of Toulouse. In 1216, the count has recently recaptured it from Simon de Montfort’s forces after a short siege. The town is dominated by the powerful utricularii of the Boatmen’s Guild, who control the wharves at the cliff’s base, beneath the city. Unusually, the Coenobium maintains no presence in the town, but recent rumors of the return of the mysterious Drac, a local sorcerer-dragon believed to predate the formation of the Order, may draw them.''
''The Drac''
''Local legend tells of a cruel sorcererdragon, the ancient Drac (Occitan: “dragon”), who preys on the river-folk of the Rhone, luring mothers and young children to his lair beneath the waters. A notably crafty creature, the elusive river serpent is claimed to be responsible for the deaths of over three thousand knights and villagers, having escaped several campaigns to hunt it down over the centuries. Its magical powers allowed the beast to walk amongst the townsfolk unseen when it desired. As the story does not mention anyone ever slaying the elder dragon, it was believed to have died of old age, but a decade ago a spate of disappearances in or around Beaucaire has been attributed to the return of the creature. No further disappearances have been reported for the last few years and the townsfolk are beginning to forget the incidents, but one of the wells in the marketplace of Beaucaire is rumored to be still linked to the creature’s lair.''
''Aucassin of Tytalus''
''In reality, the recent return of the Drac is attributable to a Tytalus eremite secretly styling himself “Aucassin Le Draconnet,” who has adopted the tale to cover his search for an apprentice and the forcible recruitment of his minions. An orphan adopted by a Rhine peregrinator, Aucassin was inexplicably drawn one day to a weak Magic aura centered on a disused well in the old marketplace of Beaucaire when revisiting his city of birth post-Gauntlet. Beneath the well lay the entrance to the underwater regio network. The Tytalan has built his sanctum within the regio that extends beneath the Rhone and Drac rivers, seeking to take advantage of its powerful Magic aura. Although he does not attend Tribunal meetings, Aucassin has successfully maintained a Persona for several years (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 87–90) as the consummate merchant, Rene of Dragonianum — a successful capo within Beaucaire’s trading establishment. He deals with the Redcaps and hedge wizard allies of the Coenobium in this mundane guise, but has been careful to avoid direct contact with Gifted magi lest his ruse be revealed. As Rene he subtly controls the town’s council using his skill in manipulation and select low-level Mentem magics. He is careful enough to avoid displaying any overt magic in town that would draw the attention of the Quaesitores. In the last two decades Aucassin has discovered that his Mythic Blood descends from the Drac of old and that he is therefore an heir to the creature’s magical legacy. Within the complex he has discovered detailed instructions, expressed as images on the cave walls, for rituals promising immortality through unleashing the potential of the dragon blood running in his veins and a deeper level linked to the Magic Realm. The images and the regio together form parts of a Mystery Initiation Script designed to transform a human heir into a truly Magical being by maturing the initiate into a true elder Drac. He has uncovered what appears to be a portal into the Magic Realm via a boundary aligned to the Form of Imaginem, which is guarded on the other side by a sleeping dragon Vestige resembling a giant Drac (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 21–23). Although he has harvested some of the unusual vis beyond the portal, he feels he is not ready to challenge the elder creature for his inheritance until he more deeply understands the ritual images.''

==Tarascon==

''Imperial counterpart to Beaucaire on the west bank, Tarascon is known for its own local amphibious dragon legend. In the hills outside the settlement is the cave lair of the slain Tarasque, a six-legged amphibian beast tamed by St Martha and then cowardly slain by the villagers of Nerluc in AD 48. Although the remains of the beast have been scattered over the centuries, the lair deepens into a submerged cave network that may connect with other caves in the region. The cave has a weak residual Magic aura of 2, although stronger regiones are believed to exist and lesser cousins of the infamous dragon may lurk within. Just north of the town near a small island lies the battle site of the forces of Hannibal and the Volcae tribe, made famous as the Battle of the Rhone Crossing. On a clear moonlit night, travelers in boats have remarked seeing giant skeletal remains of elephants lying on the river bed and giant ghostly animal shapes marching beneath the currents.''

==Arles==

''Arles is a free city or commune in the style of the Italian city-states, governed by an elected foreign podesta or chief magistrate since 1132. The podesta in turn appoints the remaining local consuls. In the 13th century it is a busy seaport, a popular embarkation point for Crusaders and pilgrims from northern France on their way to the Holy Land.''
''Les Arenes''
''Once fortified against Moorish raids, the stonework of the Roman arena has been scavenged for building works throughout the city. The ruin now holds a poor neighborhood consisting of a maze-like cluster of hovels. Although there are several churches, the majority of the population here engages in illicit trades. The more genteel citizens avoid the suburb at night. Within this unofficial thieves’ town lies the Mercer House, disguised as a pilgrim’s auberge dedicated to St Cyprian. It is nominally owned by the current leader of the Coenobium, the Chief Redcap, Alazais of Mercere. See later in the section on the Coenobium for further details.''
''The Alyscamps''
''Once the funerary destination of rich Romans, this field stretching along the Via Tolosa to the east became known for its crypts and sepulchers. At one time the necropolis was so famous and desired that the Rhone boatmen guided floating coffins from all over Europe downriver to the cemetery, although not all their clients’ valuable belongings ended up interred at their final destination. The area’s importance has faded since the relics of St Trophimus were removed to the cathedral in 1152. The local people have begun using the stones for building material and the current city council has begun a practice of gifting sarcophagi to important visitors, further depleting the site.''
''The Barbegal Ruins''
''A few miles north of Arles lie the ruins of a Roman watermill complex once used as a covenant site in the late ninth century by a trio of magi. One of the magi was a Verditius engineer rumored to have discovered a way to extract different Forms of vis from Magic auras using magical waterwheels. The peaceful settlement suffered the depredations of Fraxinetum (see earlier). Its sole surviving member fled to join the nascent Coenobium. The Barbegal complex retains a Magic aura of 5.''
''Pont Flavian''
''A single-arched bridge framed by two triumphal arches, the Pont Flavian crosses the River Touloubre near St. Chamas as part of the Via Julia Augusta. Built in antiquity, the structure has endured for more than one thousand years thanks in part to the faerie ogre who has taken up residence beneath it. The ogre can be bargained with, and a toll of sheep and beer often purchases a caravan’s passage through this area.''

==The Alpilles==

''A range of limestone teeth jutting from the northern edge of the plain of the Crau, these little mountains resemble''

[|

==Story Seeds: Beaucaire & Tarascon==

''Many events of the past and present could lead to stories in this area.''
''The Golden Court of 1174''
''Held in the meadows just north of Beaucaire, this Faerie-infested festival continue to inspire tales about its opulence, extravagance, and excess. Nominally held to celebrate the reconciliation of the Duke of Narbonne with the King of Aragon by the then Count of Provence, Henry II, the Golden Court consisted of a spectacle of 100,000 Provençal knights, according to the laudatory chronicle of Abbot Geoffrey Breuil of Vigeios. In truth, most of the knights were not human but rather faeries reveling in the foudat or spirit of deliberate foolishness and whimsicality created by troubadour culture. Thiry-thousand golden sous of glamour were plowed into the soil here, and whole herds of faerie cattle were slain and roasted over expensive wax and pitch-pine torches in an orgy of conspicuous wealth, leaving a tale lingering to this day. The faeries crowned the troubadour Raimbaut of Orange, Guilhem Mita, as “King of the Minstrels” using a golden crown sent by the faerie blooded noblewoman Sorgest, Countess of Urgell, a renowned supporter of the troubadour movement. A multitude of faeries resembling the famous troubadours and nobles of the day revisit and replay the festival on its anniversary, always looking for new humans to draw into variations of the tales they relive. Although the site is still aligned to Faerie, with a modest aura of 3 that rises to 5 on the anniversary of its opening, the field has recently attracted the attention of the Infernal. Many minor demonic spirits associated with envy, greed and lust have detached themselves from the crusading army’s wake and begun to settle in the surrounding area. These demons are similar to Tempters & Evil Spirits (see Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 39). The Coenobium magi suspect the field may be a plentiful source of renewable, albeit Faerie tainted, vis and may send the characters to investigate before considering any application to join their community.''
''A Stay in the Water Kingdom?''
''The magi come to hear of Nicolette, a young woman living in Beaucaire, who tells all who will listen of her dreams of underwater kingdoms and dragons. Most folk think her mad but indulge her by listening to her stories when unable to escape her attentions. The older folk say that she once disappeared for seven years without warning, only to return as suddenly as she left, but with no memory or explanation of where she had been and no memories of the son she had abandoned as a babe. Her husband and maturing son care for her the best they can and quickly divert her talk from her dreams when strangers enquire too pointedly. Nicolette may be a drac bride, a Faerie touched woman, once a maid servant and prisoner of the Faerie serpent released to spread tales in the mundane world. Alternatively, she may just be one of Aucassin’s escaped grogs. In either version, the madwoman may seek refuge in the covenant, drawing the unwanted attention of the Tytalus magus, or else leading them into stories beneath the waters of the Rhone.''
''The Deeper Secrets of the Rhone''
''A brief account of the recent sightings of the Drac is contained in the Otia imperialia (“Recreation for an Emperor” or “The Emperor’s Solace”), an encyclopedia of myth and magic written between 1210 and 1214 by an eminent former resident of Arles, Gervais of Tilbury. Gervais mentions entrances to the Drac’s lair via a pool outside the North Gate of Arles and within one of the main wells of Beaucaire. The local Redcaps believe at least one other entrance can be found within Magic auras along more desolate stretches of the Rhone. These connect to a large interconnected regio network that is believed to lie beneath the Rhone valley, potentially providing an alternate magical means of travel throughout the region. Travel through the labyrinth is marked by inhuman breathing sounds, giving a feeling of being hunted by some unknown evil.''

|]
''the greater Alps to such an extent that they are regarded locally as their diminutive offspring. Wild and untamed, they rise above the medieval town of St-Remy just to the north and contain areas of untouched wilderness, home to both Magic and Faerie auras and their respective creatures.''

==Les Baux==

''The stronghold of Baux was razed in 1162 at the end of a long conflict known as the Baussenque Wars between its scions and the Catalan counts of Provence. Hugh III, son of Bertrand, is the current Seigneur of Baux but spends most of his time elsewhere, preferring the bustle of Marseilles, which he holds as viscount on behalf of the Holy Roman Emperor. His relatives include the Prince of Orange and many of the minor nobility of Provence. One of his younger cousins, Marcus, is well known amongst the family as the wizard Balthazar, a somewhat notorious member of the Coenobium. Beneath the plateau of Les Baux lies the infamous Val d’Enfer, a rocky valley associated with a weak Infernal aura of 2, known for the many sinister caves that line the gorge. These caves provide entrances to a Tartaran regio. The regio is the lair of the lesser demons of pride and ambition that have spurred on the Baussenque lords''

[|

==Story Seeds: Beaucaire & Tarascon, cont’d==

''Characters may seek to access the watery labyrinth by following the descriptions and clues in Gervais’ text. The encyclopedia contains the equivalent of 4 tractati of Quality 6, on Provençal Lore (history), Faerie Lore, Infernal Lore, and Magic Lore, and can be used to research the Drac and its lair. See Art & Academe, page 26 for details on additional uses of encyclopedias.''
''To Pay the Ferryman''
''The main crossing between the two towns is by ferry. The guildsmen of Beaucaire guard the right to cross fiercely, usually charging steeply for any transit. This is at the instigation of Aucassin of Tytalus, who controls several agents within the boatsman’s guild in both Beaucaire and Arles whom he uses as informers and enforcers. So far, he has allowed Redcaps to pass unmolested, but recently one of his thugs humiliated a messenger entrusted with a private message to one of the Coenobium’s magi. The Coenobium asks the characters to investigate whether the utricularii need to learn the benefits of cooperating with their agenda.''
''To Heal the Sickly Heir''
''About a decade ago Aucassin kidnapped several children from the area, giving rise to Gervais’ recent accounts of''
''drac related disappearances. He finally captured a sickly Gifted child who appears to share his Mythic Blood. Although he is unclear of the full path he must follow, he believes that the odd child, nicknamed “Le Petit,” must play a part in his ultimate transformation and has begun to train him as a Hermetic apprentice. Unfortunately the child is wasting away from a magical illness and the Tytalus is poorly skilled in healing magic. Disguised as a poor washer woman the eremite may approach the characters to help heal his heir, seeking to play on their compassion while concealing his true ambitions.''
''When a Grog Goes Missing''
''Aucassin has recently begun to abduct mundane servants to care for his young “hatchling”. He has so far been able to use his magical talents and his position within the town to cover up the disappearances. Several abductees now dwell under magical compulsion within the cave complex, including a lavender seller wet-nurse and a young female scribe previously used by the Chief Redcap, Alazais. He has forced the latter to act as the child’s Latin and Artes Liberales tutor. When another favored grog goes missing during a trip down the Rhone, will the characters investigate further and stumble upon the secretive magus’ plans?''

==Story Seeds: Arles==

''Many stories could spring from this area.''
''The Lost Wheels''
''Once used to “grind” vis from the surrounding aura, the broken remains of only 13 of the magically crafted waterwheels of Barbegal lie hidden beneath the wild undergrowth. Repairing the complex and recovering the missing three wheels may allow rediscovery of the watermill’s secret of producing varied vis on demand — a feat that would surely indebt the characters to the neighboring Coenobium.''
''Beyond the Elysian Fields''
''A small covenant of Ex Miscellanea necromancers and spirit magi known as Elisii Campi dwelt within the crypts of the Alyscamps in the tenth century. Although they survived the Schism War by hiding underground, the magi were driven out by the Coenobium, who subtly flexed their growing mundane power, inciting fear in the local populace by spreading rumors of a group of diabolists living beneath the necropolis. The descendants of the necromancers apparently decamped to a secluded cave network in the Verdun gorge, naming their new covenant Portus Termini. All contact''
''was lost shortly after their flight, leading many to speculate that the survivors were hunted down and slain by hoplites sponsored by the Coenobium. The truth may lie hidden beneath the tombs, but many of the sarcophagi hold enchantments and traps laid by the shadowy magi and hedge wizards of the lost covenant. When an enchanted sarcophagus ends up in the possession of the characters by chance, it may provoke interest in its origin and set off an investigation into the true fate of its former owners. Will the trail lead to a secret covenant in the Verdun Gorge or will they uncover a bloodstained path leading back into the past of the Coenobium?''

|]
''into conflict over the preceding centuries. Carved into the rock beneath the valley is the Tremais, a roughly hewn sculpture depicting three figures commonly thought to represent Saints Lazarus, Mary Magdalene and Martha. The location is considered a minor pilgrimage site with a Divine aura of 4 but the Christian shrine''
''lies within a larger Faerie aura of 2, as the original pre-Christian sculpture was dedicated to the Roman commander Marius, his wife, and the Syrian sibyl Martha before being adopted by missionaries seeking to convert the local populace.''

==The Camargue==

''This swampy triangle between the deltas is formed by the two terminal branches of the Rhone. Trinquetaille, the unwalled suburb of Arles on the right bank of the Grande Rhone, provides entry to the Cam''

[|

==A Small Tarasque==

''Magic Might: 20 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com -5, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik –1 Size: +3 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Greater Immunity (deprivation), Greater Immunity (fire); Ferocity, Improved Characteristics (x2), Tough; Magic Monster, Mute, No Hands; Baneful Circumstances (Sincere Holy Displays), Weakness (Sincere Holy Displays). Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Breath of Flame), No Fatigue; Improved Attack (claws), Improved Attack (teeth), Improved Damage (claws), Improved Damage (teeth), Improved Might (x3), Improved Powers (x2), Improved Soak (x7), Personal Power (Unnatural Flight); Monstrous Appearance Personality Traits: Ravenous +3, Vicious''
''+3, Tarasque +3, Cunning +2 Reputations: Savage Beast from Galacia 3 (local), Dragon Mesmerized by Hymns 2 (Narbonnais) Combat: Large Claws: Init –1, Attack +17, Defense +10, Damage +13 Large Teeth: Init –1, Attack +15, Defense +7, Damage +12 Soak: +20 Fatigue Levels: None. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (charging), Awareness 4 (humans), Brawl 7 (claws), Hunt 4 (woods), Stealth 2 (remaining unseen), Survival 3 (forests) Powers: Unnatural Flight, 0 points, Init 0, Animal. The wings of a tarasque should not carry it through the air, but they do, and do so tirelessly. ReAn 15 R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind. (Base 4, +2 sun, +3 size): Personal Power (25 levels), Im''
''proved Power (–2 Might cost, +3 Initiative.) Breath of Flame, 2 points, Init 0, Ignem. The tarasque breathes a gout of flame 3 paces by 3 paces by 9 paces long. Anything caught in its effect suffers a stress die +25 damage from the fire. CrIg 40 R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind. (Base 20, +2 Voice, +2 size): Greater Power (50 levels, mastery points: –2 Might cost), Improved Power: (+5 Initiative)) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are four pawns of Animal vis in the Tarasque’s carapace. Appearance: The tarasque resembles a scaly, winged oxen with a vaguely reptilian lion’s head, six legs, a tortoise-like carapace, and a leathery tail. The full body of the creature measures roughly 15 paces long. Its legs end in heavy, sharply curved talons, and its great maw sports sword-like teeth. Wisps of pale gray smoke curl from its nostrils and open mouth.''

|]
''argue marshes to the south. It is the site of the Coenobium’s Factory, a series of seemingly mundane warehouses that house the bulk of the covenant’s magically produced mundane wealth. Although nominally only visitors to the Coenobium, the two Bjornaer magi who''
''permanently dwell on the outskirts of the town spend most of their time within the marshlands of the Camargue. The diminutive Bubulcus roams the swamps astride his bull Animal Companion, usually in his egret Heartbeast form, and is the more sociable of the pair. Elornis One-Leg spends at least a sea''
''son a year in his North African homeland or traveling through dreams. Descended from a line of African diviners, his Heartbeast is that of a greater flamingo. Both magi are aware of the legendary horses of the Camargue led by the Great Stallion but contact is minimal (See Realms of Power: Magic, pages 59–60).''

[|

==The Ogre Under the Bridge==

''Faerie Might: 20 (30) (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –3 Size: +3 Virtues and Flaws: External Vis (skull, grants Tough), Increased Might; Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Feast of the Dead, Huge x2, Hybrid Form, Improved Characteristics, Improved Powers, Improved Soak x2, Lesser Power, Personal Power x2, Place of Power (Pont Flavian), Tough; Monstrous Appearance, Recovery requires Vitality; Incognizant, Role requires suffering, Susceptible to deprivation, Traditional Ward (Payment: those who pay the toll) Personality Traits: Destructive +3, Greedy +2, Hungry +3, Ogre +3, Willing to Barter +2 Reputations: Ravenous Guardian of the Pont Flavian 3 (Narbonnais), Sheep and Cattle Thief 2 (local) Combat: Club: Init -5, Attack +13, Defense +6, Damage +15 Thrown Rock: Init –6, Attack +13, Defense +4, Damage +14 Large Claws: Init –3, Attack +11, Defense +5, Damage +10 Tusks: Init –3, Attack +10, Defense +4, Damage +11 Soak: +10 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Pretenses: Awareness 4 (humans), Bargain 4 (creating terms), Brawl 5 (club), Concentration 4 (maintaining Seeming of the Menhir), Faerie Speech 5 (sounding intimidating), Guile 3 (bluffing), Narbonnais Lore 3 (surrounding Pont Flavian), Stealth 3 (remaining unseen), Survival 3 (hills), Thrown Weapon 5 (rocks) Powers: Stone from the Loam, 0 points, Init –4, Terram. The ogre reaches into the ground''
''and draws forth a stone appropriate for throwing. The ogre must be in an area of natural earth to use this power. ReTe 10 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Part): Lesser Power (10 levels, +3 Initiative), Improved Powers (–2 Might points) Seeming of the Menhir, 0 points, Init –6, Imaginem. The ogre takes on the semblance of a large boulder or standing stone appropriate to the area. MuCo 25 R: Per, D: Conc, T: Individual. (Base 5, +1 Conc, +3 Size): Personal Power (25 levels), Improved Powers (–3 Might points) Stealth through the Grass, 2 points, Init –4, Imaginem. The Ogre makes no sound as it moves. Its voice, thrown rocks and attacks make noise normally. PeIm 20 R: Per, D: Sun, T: Individual. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +3 Size): Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Initiative) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: There are four pawns of Corpus in the skull it keeps in a net hanging on its belt. This skull has no encumbrance value and grants the bearer the Tough virtue. It serves as the Ogre’s external vis. Appearance: A very tall, brutishly strong man with heavily clawed hands and a head very reminiscent of a tusked boar. He carries the thick stump of a tree for a club, the knotted roots serving as makeshift spikes. He carries a burlap sack over one shoulder, filled with badly cooked mutton, half-full casks of poor-quality beer or wine, and several throwing stones. His forearms are stained a rusty, dark-brown up to the elbow, and the wickedly curved tusks which jut from his lower jaw are almost amber streaked with dirty brown. He wears a ragged hide for a loincloth and saddle cinch serves as his belt. One bare skull and several recently taken heads in various states of decomposition hang from the creature’s waist. He has a vicious and hungry look in his piggish squint.''
''Story Seed: The Ogre’s Prisoner''
''Some claim the ogre can be placated by leaving him a skin of wine and a sheep for each wagon or herd to cross the Pont Flavian, or with a simple sack of coins. Those who attempt to sneak across or damage the bridge are often waylaid and eaten. A Redcap, unfamiliar with the area and trying to deliver correspondence to the covenant, found himself captured by the ogre. In a panicked attempt to barter for his life, he promised the ogre that the magi would pay a ransom for his freedom—whatever the ogre desired, be it ten head of cattle, a great lump of gold, a wagon loaded with full wine casks. Unwilling to surrender his prisoner or leave the bridge, the ogre captured the next shepherd to wander nearby. The ogre made the Redcap give directions to the covenant, telling the lad he would eat a sheep for every day beyond the fourth it took the shepherd to return, and swore he’d eat the boy himself if he failed to return with the wizards. So how will the magi react when a random sheepherder arrives at their doorstep unannounced, telling them they must come to see the ogre of Pont Flavian, and perhaps pay the ransom for a Redcap they have never met? The ogre is not foolish, either. He has hidden the Redcap in a secret oubliette only he knows and has the strength to open. If the Ogre is killed before the Redcap’s ransom is paid, the Mercere will likely rot in an unconsecrated grave, lost in the hills. Complicating matters, the ogre claims to be the cousin of the Boar King (The Lion and the Lily, page 120), declaring his noble kinsman will avenge any wrong committed against him.''

==The Ruins of Glanum==

''Nestled to the south of the medieval town of St-Remy at the site of the old Roman settlement, pre-Schism Glanum was the site of two very short-lived Hermetic settlements of the same name in the ninth century — one Mercurian, one Mithraic. Both failed abruptly due to lack of diversity in magical skills and a fanatical prejudice against accepting members not aligned to their cult’s philosophy. Neither covenant attempt lasted long enough to be formally recognized as covenants of the then Lotharingian Tribunal by having a Quaesitor review their charter.''
''Since the Schism War the ruins have been abandoned but have recently been proposed as the compromise location for the next Tribunal gathering (see Chapter 3: Hermetic Culture). The site is currently considered off-limits for formal resettlement until this issue has been decided. Currently only Beatrice of Guernicus dwells here as a visitor to the Coenobium. Her sanctum effectively constitutes a small chapter of Castra Solis loosely dedicated to the bipartisan study of the Roman shrines associated with the various cults that once flourished there.''

==The Legacy of Balthazar==

''The House of Baux claims descent from the historical figure of Balthazar, reputedly one of the three wise kings who visited the infant Christ. To reflect this ancestry, their arms contain the Star of Bethlehem, but their actions as a line have been less than Christian. The Gift occurs uncommonly frequently within this mundane family for reasons that are unclear, but which lend credence to Baussenque claims of a magical heritage. The lords of Baux have traditionally strong links to House Jerbiton, who sometimes recruit the less martially inclined scions of the family into their ranks. Unfortunately even these softer Baussenque heirs usually lack the Gentle Gift and are generally more interested in nepotism and aggrandizement. More often than not they possess the Brutal Artist Flaw as their outlook on Taste and Beauty is considered less refined than many of their Housemates. This often makes them more suited to House Tytalus, and at least one scion has switched allegiance after her initial apprenticeship. House Jerbiton has learned to use this to its advantage. The Coenobium encourages the story of Balthazar’s legacy with the local nobility and actively reinforces the stereotypes and myths propagated by House Jerbiton (see Lords of Men, page 41) to their own advantage or uses Balthazarine magi as decoys and scapegoats. Although Balthazarine magi are en''
''couraged to subtly draw attention away from their less martial brethren, they must be careful not to draw too much attention through their more overt interaction with mundanes. The current Hermetic scion is Marcus d’Les Baux (see the Coenobium, later), although there are at least two other younger Balthazarine magi from junior branches of the family. Player magi or their apprentices may choose to belong to this lineage. At least two previous Balthazarine magi in recent memory, noted for their particular lack of taste, have joined House Tytalus, and a handful of the more warlike or chivalrous individuals in the past have joined House Flambeau. Marcus may see any younger members of his lineage more as a potential rival than an ally, reflected by the Enemy or even the Beloved Rival Flaw.''
''Mythic Blood (Balthazarine)''
''Hermetic, Major''
''Balthazarine descent grants a Minor Magical Focus with Fear or Obedience, and the associated Minor Personality Flaw tends to be one of Cruel or Proud. Their granted power is usually a version of Aura of Rightful Authority (ArM5, page 151) but with Duration Sun and no Penetration, invoked without words by adopting an overly haughty pose. See ArM5, page 47 for further details on the Mythic Blood Virtue.''

|]

==St Gilles-du-Gard==

''Based on a hermitage founded by St Giles (Aegidius) in the seventh century, this Benedictine monastery is the first stopping point on the Via Tolosena from Arles. As a waypoint within a day’s journey on the Way of St James''
''to Santiago de Compostela (see Chapter 5: Gascony, for further details), the abbey and dependent town have become an important pilgrimage site in their own right and are famous as the birthplace and family holdings of the recent counts of Toulouse. The crypt holding the relics of St Giles is frequented by barren women wishing to''
''become pregnant, although cripples are also found seeking the saint’s intercession on his feast day, the first day of September. Just outside St Gilles on the banks of the Rhone lies the scene of Peter of Castelnaudry’s assassination. The ford at which the papal legate was slain, perhaps by a demon, perhaps by one of Raimond VI’s supporters, is still stained''

[|

==Le Chevre D’Or==

''Known to roam the crags of the Alpilles, the Golden Goat of Provence is said to guard the cave containing the legendary treasure of her father, Abd al-Rahman III, first Caliph of Cordoba. In its natural form its long coat gleams with a golden fire and it wears a golden coronet around its ebony horns. When encountered it may appear to be trapped and beg to be freed in first Arabic and then Occitan, shifting into the form of a breathtakingly beautiful Saracen princess if its pleas are ignored and promising its treasure to its savior. Le Chevre D’Or is a form of powerful nymph (described in Tales of Power: Faerie, pages 73–74) that controls the entrance to a regio that leads to a grand treasure trove. Alternatively the maiden may as easily be represented by a Spirit of Deceit (see Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 38). The geographic entrance to the treasure regio may lie at the base of the Ga''
''ragai Gorge, in the Val d’Enfer beneath the plateau of Les Baux, or perhaps in any and every one of the various gullies in the foothills of the Provençal Alps. Unfortunately, the Faerie goat provides only ready entry and not ready exit — without Second Sight or other applicable magic, the entrapped lover may be unable to find the exit to the mundane world and must wander the layers of the sinister regio.''
''Story Seed: The Smitten Youth Returns''
''Rarely, the young men lured by the princess do find a way out of the trap, but usually only at the expense of their sanity or their soul. When the characters camp overnight while traveling in the area, their most attractive male mundane companion disappears during his watch, only to re''
''turn late morning with an incredible tale of hidden treasure. Despite attempts to dissuade them, the accompanying grogs wish to investigate; but is the returned youth a Faerie or Infernal impostor seeking to lead them to their doom?''
''Story Seed: The Golden Fleece of Provence?''
''Shepherds sometimes come across strands of the goat’s golden wool snagged in bushes on the hillsides. Such wool is recognized by Hermetic magi as Imaginem-flavored Accrued vis (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 19). Characters may be tasked with finding this wool by one of the more aesthetically minded magi of the Coenobium if they petition for membership of the Coenobium or wish to access its resources.''

==Salt for Life, Life for Salt…==

''Salt preserves, salt protects and salt pays — in the 13th century salt is a valuable magical and mundane commodity worth fighting over. The ruins of the abandoned Hermetic settlement of Castra Peccaius lie on the eastern bank of the Petit Rhone, just across from the future site of Aigues Mortes. Although the settlement has been abandoned for three centuries, the covenfolk of the Coenobium still travel here regularly to harvest a prized vis source from a particularly brackish pond just within the ruins. The magi of the Coenobium nominally lease this land from the nearby Abbey of Psalmody through their mundane dependents. In a few years time, if your saga follows history, the monks will sell the land to King Louis to establish the''
''embarkation point for his Crusade. This build up of mundane forces may threaten the Order’s ability to access to this unusual vis source without disturbing the king’s army, as corrupt local commanders move to secure harvest rights over the nearby salt pans to enrich themselves.''
''The Salt that Preserves''
''The magical salt produced by evaporation in this secret pond acts as a special form of Dedicated Corpus Vis (See Realms of Power: Magic, pages 122–123). A pawn of this vis allows a magus to add +2 to their Creo Corpus total during the creation of their Longevity Ritual, regardless of the magus’ Magic Theory score. Only''
''one pawn of this vis can be used per Longevity Ritual, although it counts as one of the pawns needed. Control of this small vis source, which produces only 1 to 3 pawns of vis per year of the salt, provides a valuable trade commodity to the Coenobium, who exchange the harvest with a research covenant in the Greater Alps, in return for favors for its elder magi. Threatening this supply is likely to provoke an extreme response from the otherwise politically aloof magi, and is a weakness that might be exploited by opponents of the Coenobium. Salt: +5 preservation, +3 protection from evil spirits and demons''

|]
''by an Infernal aura of 3. On the anniversary of Peter’s death, the Rhone runs red like blood and small skull-shaped pebbles can be harvested for several pawns of Corpus vis, but the vis obtained is always Infernally tainted (see Realms of Power: the Infernal, pages 18–19).''

==Orange==

''Originally the Celtic oppidum Arausio, then later a colony for the veterans of Caesar’ Gallic War, this town has been ruled by the Les Baux family since the breakup of the Kingdom of Arles in 1033. Emperor Frederick I promoted the former county to a minor principality in 1163 as he passed through. The current count, Raymond I, still claims the viceroyalty of Arles since his troubadour father William’s death in 1218 in the depths of an Avignon prison. His power is greatly limited by the strong influence of the local commune. One of the finest Roman theaters outside of Italy dominated the settlement’s social life until closed by the Christians in 391, and in 1220 it remains in ruins from its sacking by the barbarian invasions of the fourth century. The triumphal arch constructed by Tiberius has been incorporated into the town walls as its northern gate but still retains a Magic aura of 2 that flickers into being at night when the Divine aura subsides. As it stands astride the old Via Agrippa, some Hermetic magi speculate the monument may hold some secrets into the ancient Road magic of their Mercurian past. Both Neo-Mercurians and Cult of Mercury members visit the site discreetly to look for possible clues in the inscriptions or architecture.''

==Plaine de la Crau==

''This stony plain is of great interest to the magi of Ara Maxima Nova, as legend has it that the hero Heracles was confronted by the giants Bergion and Ligur, sons of Poseidon, on his return along the Via Domitia after successfully corralling the huge cattle of Geryon. Unarmed, the demigod prayed for assistance to Zeus and the plain produced the numerous rocks that he then employed with vigor as missiles, successfully defeating his larger enemies from a distance. The abundant round stones found on the plain make excellent slingshot or catapult stones depending on their size. Amongst the numerous irregularly shaped rocks can occasionally be found small, perfectly spherical specimens the size of a sling stone that are an unusual form of Terram vis. A handful of these pawns of vis are harvested yearly by the grogs of the Coenobium using lesser enchanted devices supervised by apprentice magi — a tedious and painstaking task used as a punishment for troublemakers or lazy underlings.''

==Eastern Provence==

''The eastern regions of Provence were the site of one of the oldest Greek colonies in western Europe, and remain important in Mediterranean trade.''

==Marseilles==

''Founded above the mouth of the river Lycaon by the Phocaean Greeks as Massalia, this port was a thriving prospect un''
''til snubbed in favor of Arles by Caesar for supporting Pompey in the Roman civil war. Although it fell into decline and suffered greatly from the Saracen raids that plagued the whole coast, at the start of the 13th century it is an important Mediterranean port thanks to the support of the Catalan counts of Provence. Ships carrying pilgrims and crusaders leave here intermittently as most of the Levantine pilgrim trade is currently dominated by the Genoese. Its current viscount, Hugh III of Les Baux has close connections with the representatives of the Coenobium through his magus relative Marcus of Les Baux, although his young son, Barral, is deeply suspicious of his father’s involvement with the wizards.''
''Archipel du Frioul and the Isle d’Yf''
''These four small islands off the coast of Marseilles are uninhabited. The two largest, Pomegues and Ratonneau, are frequently used as moorings for smugglers, pirates, and Saracen raiders from their eastern nest in the Hyeres archipelago. The tiniest island, Tiboulain, is completely uninhabited. The remaining Isle d’Yf is covered by small Magic aura of strength 3 centered on the ancient grove of yew trees that give the outcrop its name. The youngest branches of the oldest yew each contain a pawn of Extraordinary Intellego vis that, if burnt, gives the bearer of the wooden brand the power to invoke the ability to communicate with the spirits of the dead as though casting the spell, Whispers Through the Black Gate (ArM5, page 130). Up to half a dozen branches can be harvested each year on All Soul’s Eve, but each branch can only be used once.''

==Toulon==

''Nestled beneath the slopes of Mount Faron, this town was known in ancient writings for its dye-making from the earliest Phoenician settlements in the area. Its beaches are one of the few sources of the rare murex shellfish vital for producing imperial (true) purple, and the oak groves on the hillsides above maintain the kermes beetle that produces an almost as valuable crimson dye when crushed.''

[|

==Story Seed: The Green Magi in the Trees==

''Visitors who spend the night sleeping beneath the boughs of Yf report dreaming of green robed magi who disappear into the shadows whispering threats of vengeance. The Diedne of Yf used this site for their pagan rituals, but unlike their fellows further north, it was the Moors sponsored by Fraxinetum rather''
''than the local Flambeau who spilled their blood amidst the groves. Characters who investigate the area looking to speak with pre-Schism War ghosts or uncover clues about their non-Hermetic secrets arouse the suspicion of the Chief Quaesitor elect and her Mercurian allies if they attempt to settle at the site.''

|]
''The Coenobium maintains a small chapter house here at the location of the former Flambeau covenant of Telo Martius, run by a retired Redcap. Aloysius Porphyri is an unGifted alchemist who coordinates the harvesting of the two resources here and runs one of the dye-making works from the Coenobium’s factory outside the town.''
''Of Purple and of Crimson''
''The true purple dye produced from the murex shellfish by the Coenobium here was reserved for the sole use of the Byzantine emperors in pre-Hermetic times, but now only some of the dye makes its way eastwards, as the covenant keeps a portion of the factory’s product for their own magical purposes. See The Sundered Eagle: the Theban Tribunal, page 45 for details of the value of true purple in the Byzantine lands. In contrast, the violent crimson produced from the crushed kermes beetle is more widely distributed and is particularly favored by hoplites and magi of Flambeau for their clothing, although it has less magical potency. The Coenobium’s magically aided extraction process gives them a competitive advantage compared to other suppliers, but they are careful not to flood the market and draw mundane attention to their activities. Rare examples of the shells and oak-loving beetles contain small amounts of Imaginem vis, which is harvested by Aloysius while overseeing the dye-making process. Purple (murex) dye: +10 royalty, +7 rulership and authority, +5 control people Crimson (kermes) dye: +7 violence, +4 courage and martyrdom, +3 sin''
''The Hyeres Islands''
''Known as the Stoechades to Pliny and the ancient Greeks, this cluster of islands across from the ancient Greek settlement of Olbia is known for the lush pastures of lavender that cover its gentle slopes. A monastery claims the larger eastern island known as Ile du Levant, but pirates haunt the more secluded coves of Port-Cros and Porquerolles. The current scions of Fraxinetum still use the area as their base. The nearby Giens peninsula to the west is only accessible at extremely low tide and forms a fourth island for the majority of the year.''

==Massifs des Maures==

''Between Hyeres and Frejus lies this geological anomaly of granite, a stark contrast to the limestone hills of the rest of Provence. Blackened by dark forests, it takes name from the Saracen privateers who dominated the lands from the coast to the Alpine passes during the later eighth, ninth and tenth centuries.''
''La Garde-Freinet''
''The original site of the covenant of Fraxinetum (see earlier for further details) lies almost inaccessible within the billowing crystalline summits of the region. Before the raider magi were forced to flee the consequences of their excessive mundane interference, this village above St Tropez amidst''

[|

==The Pirate Isles==

''Although no longer based in the original fraxinet in the Massif des Maures, the latest heirs of the Hermetic privateers have moved their base to the islands just off the southern coast. They continue to sponsor mundane raids on the coastal cities of Provence and disrupt the Catalan and Genoan ships plying their trade along the coast. Ahmad’s ships are careful to target non-Hermetic shipping, relying on carefully placed mudnane spies to give the fleet of the Coenobium a wide berth. Currently, there are only two Moorish magi dwelling at the pirate’s main base amidst the lavender, although they can be found at occasionally harvesting vis sources scattered along the small islands of the southern Provence coastline, including the deserted Diedne base at Yf. A third magus has established a sanctum on one of the larger ships used by the magi’s shady associates. The group have yet to declare themselves a Provençal covenant at Tribunal out of concern that the specter of their ancestors may provoke an unmitigated Wizard’s War against them.''
''Ahmad ibn Nasr of Tytalus''
''Age: 68 (Apparent Age: 43) Personality Traits: Carefree +3, Brave +2''
''Directly descended from the founder of the original raider covenant, Nasr ibn Ahmad, the current leader of the pirates is a master of sea magics, jinn and water elementals. Rumor has it he may have been at least partially schooled by a Hermetic sahir of Andalusia and privy to nonHermetic mysteries learnt from Faerie jinn. His spirit familiar is a powerful seadwelling ‘afrit who claims to be a prince of an underwater tribe of jinn dwelling near''
''Gibraltar that Ahmad defeated during his self-taught initiation script.''
''The Mythic Uses of Lavender''
''Dioscorides of Anazarba first described this plant, stoechas, in his great medical work, De Materia Medica as a slender herb with leaves longer longer than thyme. Since its introduction from the Hyeres islands to the mainland by Charlemagne in the ninth century, the herb has become a standard in monastic physic gardens. Its use is integral to the folk magic practices of southeastern France, where it is still called by its ancient name. Lavender: +3 cleansing / purification or healing, +5 protection from evil spirits''
''Lavender of Virtue''
''Unenriched Lavender of Virtue contain 1 pawns of Rego vis. Proper enrichment requires a time consuming process of sun drying the herb within an open barn during the winter rages of the Mistral. The twigs are then bound using twine into a small poesy and steeped in the venom of an asp for a season to activate the magic. The finished amulet grants the Major Virtue Greater Immunity (one major disease) to any wearer without Magic Resistance so long as he or she can smell the herb’s scent (equivalent to a Necessary Condition). The herb’s magic only lasts a single year and it confers Warping Points on the wearer as a constant effect of Low Power (ArM5, page 168). If mounted above the lintel of a room, the amulet grants its protection to those in the chamber beyond while they recover within.''

|]
''an encircling forest of cork, oak and chestnuts was their base. Still dominated by the ruins of the old covenant fort, the razed site retains a Magic aura of 4. A palisade of densely packed ash trees created by the Herbam specialists surrounds the former covenant grounds. Remnants of the defensive rituals of the magi animate the larger ash trees to repel intruders that pass the outer perimeter, giving rise to stories of ghosts haunting the area and keeping the local peasants from looting the Hermetic ruins.''

==Mount Ventoux==

''The “Home of the Winds,” this bald mountain marks the northern boundary of Provence and dominates the surrounding plains, and has long had an evil reputation as the source of the Mistral, the famous wind of Provence. Various chapels are built on its lower slopes, including a pair of chapels and a guard tower at Beumont-du-Ventoux and the large monastery of Notre-Dame-du-Groseau. Further north lies the Source du Groseau, a magical spring pouring from the cliff-face dedicated to the Celtic spring-deity Groselos and a potential source of Aquam vis. The upper slopes of the mountain are covered by a strong Magic aura of level 7 that rises into a regio of level 9 as a climber ascends to the gravelly summit. The wind is constantly blowing here, reaching frightening speeds and''

[|

==Story Seed: The Mistral==

''Stories can be blown in by the winds when they come from a magical source.''
''The Master’s Ire''
''The legendary abundance of spirits has recently attracted Calais filius Septentrio of Bonisagus, a visitor to the Coenobium from the Rhine who styles himself “Master of the Winds.” This magus established his sanctum in a cave just below the summit, near the entrance to the regio, seeking to convince the daimon within to let him act as its Spirit Votary. This petitioning has aroused the ire of the self-proclaimed “true” master of the winds however, an ancient Faerie lord known as Mistrau (“the Master”) who embodies all the Provençal myths of the mistral. The Faerie lord has somehow sealed the spirits’ regio. This has prevented their egress and resulted in an unusually mild season. The wind magus is now trapped within the regio and is still engaged in an ongoing battle with the enraged minions of Ventoux. His hosts at the Coenobium are becoming concerned, as they expected this valued specialist’s return last season. Young magi may be charged with rescuing Calais, or, learning of his plans may decide to also try and bargain''
''with the greater daimon or the Faerie lord. To do so they will have to petition the hostile Mistrau to gain entrance. Its chosen challenge is for a wizard or mundane to best one of his Faerie champions in capturing two ephemeral concepts from Arcadia: the last breath of Winter and the first exhalation of Spring.''
''An Infernal Breeze''
''The storyguide may decide that either the daimon Ventoux or the Faerie lord Mistrau is better represented by an Infernal spirit that seeks to corrupt both Hermetic and hedge elementalist traditions. Player magi drawn to Mount Ventoux by its legends may then be readily deceived they are dealing with a Faerie rather than an Infernal entity and be led into corruption. Using an Infernal pact, the demon hopes to spread his influence beyond the Rhone Valley and create a miasma of corruption that will eventually infect all elementalist traditions throughout the Order. In this scenario, Mistrau is a similarly named demon of the Order of Aerial Powers of similar Might to his Faerie counterpart. To date, the demon has been partly contained by the prayers and hymns of the nearby monks of Notre-Dame-du-Groseau.''

|]
''preventing any vegetation from taking hold. The regio above the peak is home to numerous air spirits of varying Might ruled by a greater Daimon referred to as Ventoux. This elder spirit periodically looses his lesser kin to wreak havoc on the surrounding countryside, adding substance to the folktales of the hill as a source of malevolent spirits.''

==Forcalquier==

''Capital of the county of the same name stretching along the Durance River, the town’s citadel dominates the landscape from the top of a steep conical hill. Countess Garsenda is the current regent. Her political marriage to Alfonso in 1209 granted her son Raymond-Berengar an extensive local inheritance to add to his lands held as the Catalan count of Provence. Garsenda is recognized as a trobairitz in her own right and is reputed to have magical powers beyond the mundane ability to inspire with song common to all troubadours. She is known as a famous patron of troubadours throughout the south. Her rumored lovers include at least one Jerbiton magus of the Coenobium. See Chapter 2: History and Culture for more details on troubadours and troubadour culture in Provence.''

==Aix==

''The recently chosen capital of the County of Provence has its roots in the old Celtic oppidum or hill-fort of Entremont, but was replaced by the Roman camp of Aquae Sextiae, sited near the nearby thermal spring. The famous Roman general Marius defeated the descending horde of Teutones near here at Montagne Saint-Victoire in 102 BC — his troops slaying so many barbarians that the soil of the resulting Campi Putridi was enriched for years to come. Stories tell that 300 of the defeated chieftains were forced into the sinister Garagai gorge at the urging of Marius’s Syrian sibyl, Martha. Their murdered spirits rise from the floor of the pit on the anniversary of the battle to reenact their defeat. The lip of the chasm has an Infernal aura of 2, although deeper''
''in the gorge the strength rises and gives rise to yet unexplored Tartaran regiones, including a supposed entrance to Hell itself at its utmost bottom. Some local stories place the treasure cave of the Le Chevre d’Or here.''

==Iles de Lérins==

''Monks have dominated this area since the fifth century thanks to St Honoratus, who drove out the venomous snakes that infested the islands in antiquity. Although the serpents never returned, the Saracens did, repeatedly, and were responsible for the death of one of its abbots, St Porcarius, during the eighth century. The fortified Cistercian monastery of Lerins on the nearby Ile Saint-Honorat controls the walled town on the mainland, overlooked by a defensive tower on the Suquet hill. Lerins is an important pilgrimage destination due to St Honoratus — traveling to Lerins is considered by some equivalent to a journey to the Holy Land, and the monastery has trained several remarkable clergymen, possibly even Saint Patrick. A small sanctuary of Venus, unsuccessfully''
''despoiled by the 14th abbot, St Nazarius, lies hidden in a cave network beneath the sister convent of St Marguerite on the smaller island, named St Marguerite after the convent. It contains a weak Magic aura of 2 still. Also on the island is an unusual almond tree which blossoms every month — its blooms can be collected and crushed to produce 1 pawn of Mentem vis per month, but the vis produced is Divinely tainted (see ArM5, page 190).''
''Tropaeum Alpium''
''Originally this structure was nothing more than a circular arched monument dedicated to the defeat of the Gaulish tribes at the hands of the imperial legions. It once marked the boundary of Roman Italy on the Via Julia Augusta. This Trophy of Augustus later became a fortress and redoubt to protect the inhabitants in times of attack. By tradition, it still marks the easternmost limit of the Provençal Tribunal, although the town of Turbia is currently under the influence of the nearby Republic of Genoa and considered politically and linguistically part of mundane Liguria.''

[|

==The Ghosts of the Garagai Gorge==

''The ghosts of the murdered chieftains are not actually Infernal spirits despite the prevailing aura, but rather specters aligned to the Magic realm — Teutonic counterparts to the ghostly soldiers of House Tremere (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 126–127). Questioning the slain victims may provide an insight into the secrets of the lost tradition of Martha, the Syrian sibyl in the legends, who may have been from''
''a lineage akin to the Canaanite Necromancers (see Ancient Magic, pages 30–39 for more details on Canaanite Necromancy). Even prior to the mass sacrifice, the chasm was said to be home to prophetic spirits that rose from the depths that may still be invoked by local masques or magi using necromantic magic. These older pagan spirits are best represented by Spirits of Deceit (see Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 38).''

==Story Seed: The Magic Milestone==

''Pope Urban II reconsecrated the local cathedral of St Apollinaris in 1095 after it was rebuilt in the Cluniac Romanesque style. Built into a column in its ambulatory is a milestone from the Via Agrippa roadway that carries an inscription in Latin attributing its sponsorship to Florentius Niger, a Roman senator believed to have been a priest of the Cult of Mercury. The inscription strongly radiates non-Hermet''
''ic magic. It may contain an Insight into the ancient Mercurian Road Magic of the original Mercurian priests or a clue to the whereabouts of a lost Mercurian temple. Studying the milestone in its current position is difficult, but removing the block is sure to be noticed and will trigger the church authorities to investigate the theft. Is there a solution that will keep the priests fooled?''

|]
''A partial statue of Augustus stands inside the monument, mostly smashed by Christian mobs who thought the Tropaeum was a pagan temple possibly dedicated to the cult of the Emperors. The site was investigated by the predominantly Mercurian magi of the short-lived covenant of Turris Mascis (“Tower of the Masques”), but the fruits of their investigation have been lost. Stones from the monument have been used throughout the village for building, although any magical effects are suppressed by the strength 3 Divine aura of the nearby church of St Michael.''

==Lower Burgundy==

''Once part of the Kingdom of Lower Burgundy, or Cisjurania, declared by Boso of Provence at Arles in 879 and then part of the reunited Kingdom of Arelat in 933, this area fell under the imperial control of Conrad II in 1032. Lately it has become increasingly independent of its imperial overlords. Like its French counterpart in the Normandy Tribunal, the Duchy of Burgundy, the area is known for its cathedrals, monasteries, and pilgrimages rather than trade. The current Dauphine of Viennois and Countess Albon is Beatrice of Albon, grandmother of the eight year old Hugh IV of Burgundy, ruler of the Duchy of Burgundy in the Normandy Tribunal (see The Lion and the Lily, page 111–114). It is notably separate from the former Kingdom of Upper Burgundy formed by Rudolphe of Auxerre north of the Jura range in 888 and the Free County of Burgundy that lie within the Tribunal of the Greater Alps.''

==Vienne==

''Formerly the capital of the Gaulish Allobroges, then an important Roman colony, Vienne is the seat of the archbishop of northern Arelat. Although the legitimate count of the area on behalf of the emperor, the current prince-archbishop, Jean de Bernin, is constantly challenged by the local dauphins for control of the region. Armed conflict has not yet occurred but the situation threatens''
''to escalate into overt violence. The church of Notre Dame de Vie conceals the former peripteral Temple of Augustus and Livia and a Magic aura of 3, believed to have once been an important Mercurian site. A truncated pyramid known as Pilate’s Tomb was reputedly dedicated near the spot where the body of the Biblical figure was submerged in the river before being removed as it aroused evil spirits in the waters. The remains of a Roman theatre adorn Mont Pipet to the east and traces of old Roman roads and aqueducts can be found on the outskirts of the city.''

==Grand Chartreuse==

''This large monastic complex in the mountain cluster above the town of Grenoble consists of a main cloister of individual cells each with a high-walled garden connecting to a long corridor. Each so-called choir monk’s living quarters consists of a two-story hermitage with a small walled courtyard isolated from its neighbor. Here the monks live a secluded life of communal retreat, devoting themselves to prayer. Several of the current choir monks are unGifted Ascetics, members of a Holy Tradition for Mythic Companions introduced in Realms of Power: the Divine Revised Edition, page 47. The current prior and at least one of the other monks possess True Faith. At least two older brothers are very adept at Mythic Herbalism and the old hunchbacked cellarer, Salvatore, possesses the Blatant Gift. The Great Motherhouse has a strong Divine aura of 7, strengthened by the simple unworldly devotions of the hermit monks. The valley itself has a Divine aura of 3.''

==Aix Les Bains==

''Once named Aquae Graticule (Latin: “waters of Gratian”) to commemorate the emperor assassinated in Lyons in 383, the town was renowned as a bath during the Roman Empire. Travelers still frequent the hot thermal springs of the hilly country that forms the foothills of the Jura and the Alps. Aix lies just south of the beautiful Lac du Bourget, purported to be the largest and''
''the deepest lake of the area, fed by the river Leysse and believed to contain an Aquam aligned regio deep within its waters. Some Hermetic magi have reported sightings of the mysterious elemental Men of the Lake (Realms of Power: Magic, pages 93–94) in the area, but this has not been confirmed.''

==The Coenobium Rhodanien==

''Symbol: An arched bridge''
''This covenant is still referred to officially in the Redcap rolls as Mascum Sub Pontem after the original name of the main site. Most Provençal magi refer to it just as The Coenobium. Normandy magi prefer the official term “Coenobium Rhodanien” to distinguish it from the small unofficial covenants of their home Tribunal designated by the same term. This covenant is arguably the largest in the Tribunal, depending on the number of visiting magi present at any one time. The level of cooperation amongst the magi is somewhat unusual, but all members appreciate the benefit of being able to call upon the collective’s extensive resources to defend their personal interests when required. The many Jerbiton magi here are focused less on the acquisition of magical power than on their various mundane pursuits. Despite being dominated by a single House philosophy, many of its members pursue somewhat varying visions of Beauty compared to their housemates elsewhere.''

==History==

''This large multi-site covenant strung out along the lower Rhone and eastwards along the coast of the County of Provence consists of the heirs of several former covenants of Provence and eremitic magi who banded together in the late tenth century for mutual protection in response to the depredations of Fraxinetum (see earlier). Using their extensive mundane family''
''contacts and influence with the local nobility in defense of their own safety, the mainly Jerbiton magi were behind the marshaling of the army under William I of Provence that drove the Saracens from their strongholds in the Massif des Maures. Despite narrowly escaping the wrath of the Quaesitores for infringing the Code by destroying the rogue covenant of Fraxinetum, the many advantages of the league outweighed any benefits of disbanding.''
''The victorious magi continued a policy of mutual cooperation and nepotism to their advantage, gradually gaining control of or influence over the majority of magical and mundane resources within the County of Provence. They justify the use of this hegemony as a means of ensuring their own pursuits are not compromised by being caught unprepared by Hermetic aggression a second time. Although not a direct threat to any of the other covenants of Provençal,''

[|

==The Lost Chapters of Portus Cottiae==

''An ostracized Mercurian magus from the Greater Alps originally founded this fallen covenant in the Cottian Alps. Established in 821 by Julius Donnus of Flambeau just outside Briancon, near the border of the Roman Tribunal, it was intended to serve as an alternative home to Harco for the revived Cult of Mercury. The main site commanded the descent from the Col de Montgenevre pass for travelers coming from the Piedmont in the east. Built in the Roman style of a Greater Alps covenant, it controlled the trade routes along the upper Durance valley. At its height it had established chapter houses maintained by officers known as a mansionarii at Gap, Chorges, Embrun, and a border-post at Oulx on the Redcap route following the old Via Domitia through the mountains down the valley of the Dora Riparia into the western Piedmont. Portus Cottiae was one of the first of the former Lotharingian covenants to fall to the Saracen raiders in 906 when Berber mountaineers overran its divided turb and forced the geographically separated magi to flee south along the Durance. The surviving maga, Anaïs of Jerbiton, retreated to the relative safety of Avignon, becoming one of the most strident voices calling for the Hermetic hegemony that resulted in the Coenobium.''
''Story Seeds: Reopening the Lost Gates''
''The main site of Portus Cottiae and the three chapter locations may be suitable covenant locations for young magi wishing to found a new covenant or chapter of the Coenobium (see later), but each''
''has its own challenges. In addition, the heirs of Anaïs may oppose any interloping magi, either through legal means or by discreet attacks in an attempt to disrupt the resettlement. Brigantium: The “motherhouse” of the covenant was near Briancon, built just above the town into the cliffs overlooking the Guisane River before it joins the Durance. The desperate magi there collapsed the mountainside above on the Saracen raiders but inadvertently entombed themselves within their own sancta. Accessing the laboratories and council chambers may require shifting large amounts of stone but will evoke the ire of both the ghosts of the former magi and the malevolent Infernal shades of their attackers, which may prove a much more serious obstacle. The Mercere Portal lies buried beneath the rocks and could be uncovered and reactivated. Caturigomagus: An isolated sanctum lies beneath the ruined Roman mansio (way station), one day’s travel beyond Chorges and their Roman ruins. Once belonging to a Merinita magus who fled at the raiders’ approach only to be slain, the area has attracted three local faeries known as dememoilles, a Provençal variant of lesser White Ladies (see Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 82– 83). Any attempts to recover the magus’s trove of books of Faerie magic will require dealing with this trio of seductive creatures. Vapincum: The site at Gap was the rallying point for the few survivors of the Saracen attacks and escaped the attacks due to its concealed position. Built beneath the crypts under the cathedral within an old temple to Apollo, formerly maintained by the Cult of Mercury, this chapter’s weak Magic aura is suppressed by the Divine aura of the Christian build''
''ing. Reusing the abandoned site just beneath the gaze of the Dominion will limit magical development unless its aura can be strengthened without noticeably interfering with the bishop’s church. Ebrodunum: The Embrun chapter was nothing more than a stabling point for the covenfolk and traveling Redcaps. A former mansio in ancient times like the sanctum at Chorges, a hidden shrine to Mercury once lay beneath the cathedral. The stones have since been used in construction of the new church however and its Magic aura has long faded. Unlike the other sites, there are no magical resources to be harvested here. Several mundane descendents of the covenfolk may have inherited lost records or books from the covenant library, however, and may help magi seeking to refound the settlement. Known as a site of pilgrimage since the remains of St Nazarius were transferred here in the fifth century, the priests of the newly completed Romanesque cathedral are suspicious of the pagan scholars that used to dwell here. They may actively obstruct any attempts to enlist the townsfolk in what they see as an attempt at a pagan revival. Ulcium: Founded within the precincts of a temple to Mars Ultor, this site at Oulx controlled the Col du Mont Cenis pass used by Hannibal and then Charlemagne to invade the area that is now Lombardy. The old Mercurian cult temple to Mars can be accessed through a regio in the ruins above the small village. Although the most physically isolated, it is perhaps the easiest to resettle. Its position on the border with the Roman Tribunal may have unwelcome political consequences as older neighboring covenants feel their local vis sources threatened.''

|]
''the considerable mundane resources and influence of the Coenobium makes it a potentially powerful enemy if it regards its collective interests as being threatened.''

==Setting & Description==

''The heart of the urban covenant has been established at Avignon, although important holdings of the covenant are located in the city of Arles and at the entrance to the Camargue, throughout southern Provence and even as far north as Grenoble. In reality, the whole body of the Rhone supports the covenant magically and in a mercantile sense. Several Coenobium magi spend the majority of their time either on, alongside, or beneath the waters of the river — at any time at least two magi are traveling up and down the river in large barges created by the resident boatwright. Smaller boats carry both visiting Redcaps from other Tribunals and the local unGifted Merceres on their errands. Many of the permanent enchantments available to the covenant’s magi and Redcaps either target the whole river or remain effective as long as the individual is afloat on the Rhone or one of its major tributaries.''
''Currently Aegis of the Hearth rituals protect only the northern Avignon site — the Factory building requires a separate ritual to the main complex beneath the Isle de Barthelasse and the Pont St Benezet. The town houses of the magi in and around Avignon, the Mercer House in Arles and the other sites controlled by the Coenobium rely variously on less effective Hermetic wards, non-Hermetic protective charms, or their urban location. Those magi acting as patrons are granted transportation magic linked by Arcane Connection to the main council chamber, and can thus travel to a meeting quickly even if given little notice.''
''Avignon: The Sub Pontem Chambers''
''The first arch of the Pont St Benezet, the only one to rest on the low lying land of the eastern shore, contains the fragment of the Roman temple allegedly placed there by St Benezet. During the day, the Divine aura of the nearby chapel suppresses the small Magic lacuna (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 57–58) with a strength of 4, but the Magic aura is able to manifest''
''at night. Many of the areas designated as visiting magi’s laboratories are located underground beneath the nearby Isle of Barthelasse to take advantage of the weak Magic aura of 3 that covers the extensive northern reaches of the island. The occasional flooding of the Rhone makes this a difficult prospect at times. The entrance to the subterranean laboratory of Nicodemus lies beneath the second pier. The remainder of the bridge beyond the chapel of St Nicholas is sometimes used by the members of the former covenant of Sub Pontem for their urban magical activities as it lies just beyond the edge of the strength 3 Divine aura generated by the city and the abbey across the stream. It has a weak Magic aura of 2 generated by the flowing of the captive Rhone spirits beneath its arches. One of the laboratory barges of the covenant is usually moored on the downstream side of one of the western piers.''
''Arles: the Mercer House at St Cyprian’s''
''A whore-house built within an old pilgrim’s auberge dedicated to St Cyprian just''

[|

==The Carthusian Order==

''Stat crux dum volvitur orbis (“The Cross is steady while the world is turning”) — motto of the Carthusian Order''
''Founded comparatively recently in 1084 by the hermit Saint Bruno of Cologne and adhering to its own set of statutes, the Carthusians dedicate their communal life to solitude and silence within the impregnable natural barrier of the Chartreuse Massif. Escaping the worldliness of the Benedictines and the Cistercians, the followers of Bruno have no active ministry and contribute only their prayers to the outer world. They rarely accept retreatants, unlike other monasteries. Although not strictly bound to silence, Carthusian monks avoid unnecessary speech. They are allowed to converse during their weekly four-hour walk through the woods above the charterhouse, although they must change partners every half hour. Only the prior is permitted to speak to pro''
''spective retreatants or outsiders. The monastery’s lay brothers perform most of the manual labour and intercept any outside visitors, living in a dormitory at the foot of the valley. They are responsible for managing the settlement’s supplies and prevent their coenobitic brethren from being disturbed.''
''The Magus of Chartreuse''
''The most recent retreatant to the Motherhouse is an unusual aspirant known as Romualdus, a former Jerbiton magus who has abandoned active Hermetic life for the contemplative life of the Carthusian community. He cites the remnant pagan practices and cultural decay of the wider Order as his reasons and as the new novice, Brother Thomas, now eschews all contact with his former Hermetic brethren. He no longer actively practices con''
''ventional Hermetic magic and seeks God through a more ascetic expression of his Gift. He hopes the development of a new prayer-based tradition of Holy Magic will be pleasing to the Lord.''
''Story Seed: The Monk’s Apprentice''
''The former Romualdus has discovered that an awkward and shy younger novice, Brother Jude, has both True Faith and The Gift, making him a potential apprentice for a holy magus. The ex-magus has only formed a friendship with the younger man at this stage but fears that the monk may be in danger of being claimed as a Hermetic apprentice if word gets out of his Gift. Perhaps the retired Jerbiton can persuade a Bonisagus magus to intervene on his behalf and then help train the young monk, or will his new principles forfeit his chances?''

|]
''within the city walls, Alazais’s headquarters acts as the meeting place of the covenant’s Redcaps and Jerbiton magi, who often enjoy the earthy diversions on offer once their official business has been concluded. Beneath the old auberge and client rooms are a series of chambers where the covenfolk can conduct more discreet business, although the city’s Divine aura prevents the development of a Magic aura and the site therefore lacks an Aegis, instead relying on the prevailing Divine aura. An archway etched with magical inscriptions links one of the chambers with the complex beneath the Isle de Barthelasse outside of Avignon.''
''The Camargue: the Factory at Trinquetaille''
''The large warehouse that stores the Coenobium’s mundane wealth is likewise often referred to as the Factory, although similar smaller complexes are maintained by other merchant groups. Extending several levels below ground, the structure provides a maximum of storage without provoking mundane suspicion. The complex includes a heavily warded area within the established secondary Aegis to contain the more dangerous and exotic items and captive creatures that pass through the covenant’s hands. Only patrons are allowed to participate in the Aegis ritual for the Factory. The handful of tokens produced each year are closely controlled by the First Consul. Several of the more intensive industrial processes involved in maintaining the covenant’s mundane wealth are discreetly located here, their magical augmentation or replacement of traditional methods being kept from prying mundane eyes by subtle wards or traps that trigger memory erasing spells.''

==Magi==

''Although dominated by Houses Jerbiton and Mercere, some of the associated magi belong to other Hermetic Houses such as Bonisagus (especially the politically minded Trianomae branch), Ex Miscellanea, Verditius, and even Flambeau. As most of the non-Mercere magi belong to Societates''
''that have loose membership requirements, the actual House of a magus matters less to Alazais than his having an agreeable personality and demonstrating a commitment to the covenant’s goals as a whole. Each magus has his own agenda and interests but there is a surprising degree of cooperation and tolerance despite the rampant nepotism — perhaps aided by the fact that only a few of the magi are ever gathered in the same place at one time. Currently there are over two dozen predominantly Jerbiton magi registered as consuls, or voting members of the covenant. Nearly a dozen other magi are considered permanent guests and up to half a dozen Redcaps may be staying at any one time. Very few of these magi live in the city permanently, and most of the non-Jerbiton or non-Mercere magi have their own sancta or places of residence outside of Avignon and Arles, using the shared covenant chambers reached from beneath the Pont St Benezet when staying in Avignon or the chambers be''
''neath Alazais’s auberge when visiting Arles. While not an official member, Beatrice of Guernicus, the Chief Quaesitor elect of Provençal dwells within the nearby ruins of Glanum. She has shown no intent of leaving the Coenobium’s hinterland, at least not until the next Tribunal meeting is confirmed. Beatrice is detailed further in Chapter 5: Gascony.''
''Alazais of Mercere, Chief Redcap and First Consul of the Coenobium''
''Age: 59 (Apparent Age: 27) Personality Traits: Ambitious +6, Wily +3, Patient +2''
''Claiming descent from Helen of Troy, the First Consul and Chief Redcap wears a tragic mask once favored by classical actors. She never removes her mask except in the presence of magi or her lover, an unGifted folk witch ally of the Coenobium for whom''

[|

==Is the Coenobium in Good Taste?==

''The Jerbiton and affiliated magi of the Coenobium consider that they strive to live tastefully, according to the philosophy of their House (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 44–51), but to other Jerbiton their pragmatic approach of magically dominating the nobility, mundane resources, and hedge wizards of their hinterland may seem ugly. The Coenobium consuls counter that their highly organized management of their magical and mundane resources allows them the opportunity to live more''
''tastefully by freeing up their time to engage in leisure, intrigue, travel, and the practice of good etiquette. By generously offering hospitality to specialist magi who perform the less tasteful tasks of running a covenant such as defense, magical research, and the maintenance of their mundane resources, they hope to encourage their sodales to learn from their example and move away from the traditions of the more unpleasant Founders that dominate much of the Order’s contemporary culture.''

|]

==Notes on Urban Magic and the Island of Barthelasse As the majority of the Coenobium’s holdings lie within the urban communes of the Rhone valley, overt magic use is more limited than at most covenants. The townhouses and business fronts of the covenant are strategically located in or near the various small lacunae or areas of non-Divine auras within the towns. An exception is the ever-shifting midstream island of Barthelasse, extending upstream from the arches of the Pont==

''St Benezet. It is effectively a large lacuna with a Magic aura of 2, rising to 3 at its northern tip. Beneath the lightly wooded island lies the council rooms and guest quarters of the covenant, covered by the main Aegis of the Hearth that is renewed at the summer instead of winter solstice, unlike most other covenants. Further details of lacunae and using magic in urban settings within the Dominion are found in Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 57–60.''
''she has obtained a long-lasting Longevity Ritual at great cost with help from the Praeco, Dama. Rumor has it that she was once attacked with alchemical acid by a former suitor, leaving her face hideously scarred but none of the other magi will either confirm or deny this. UnGifted, she nevertheless makes much of a claim to be directly descended from the Founder Mercere though his grandaughter, using it to engender respect amongst Redcaps and the Jerbiton magi alike. Alazais’s leadership has seen an increasing number of non-Jerbiton magi being accepted as semipermanent or permanent guests and the adoption of a number of lesser hedge wizards as nominal Redcaps. Although careful to maintain the appearance of never voting openly in council meetings, she quietly pulls the strings behind the scenes, maneuvering the might of the Coenobium to further her own goals. She is careful to maintain the guise of encouraging the Jerbiton magi to seek beauty and leave the mundane tasks of running the covenant to their supposed inferiors.''
''Nicodemus Ex Miscellanea''
''Age: 102 (Apparent Age: 63) Personality Traits: Absent-Minded +6, Reclusive +3''
''Although Nicodemus was originally a member of House Jerbiton fascinated by the beauty of Roman hydraulic engineering, the''
''multiple Twilight Scars suffered in his youth have resulted in a Blatant Gift. Obsessed with his experiments in Aquam magic, this senior magus has become estranged from his Gently Gifted colleagues. Unable to blend into mundane society easily and live the usual tasteful lifestyle of his housemates, he has reluctantly transferred his allegiance to House Ex Miscellanea. He is warily respected by the river-folk and Redcaps that ply the Rhone and known by most boatmen to live as a hermit along the river shore beneath the Pont St Benezet. He is still considered a nominal consul of the Coenobium, although most think his behavior is unbecoming for a former Jerbiton magus. Alazais has noted that he is becoming less and less interested in behaving according to the expectations of his Housemates. She suspects that Warping from his experiments is slowly taking its toll on his sanity. Nicodemus is increasingly devoting his energies in attempting to integrate the Atlantean magics of his lineage into standard Hermetic theory.''
''The Balthazar, Marcus d’Les Baux of Tytalus''
''Age: 42 (Apparent Age: 35) Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Sly +2''
''An aggressive young scion of the Seigneurs of Les Baux, Marcus has been cautioned by the previous Chief Quaesitor about openly meddling too much in mundane affairs on behalf of his family or his''
''friends within the Church, particularly the Abbott of St Andaon. Although he retains his position as consul, he has been forbidden to act as patron until he has proven he can be trusted to be more discreet about his nepotism. His Hermetic name reflects his family’s legendary descent from one of the three magi that visited Christ and in reflection of his family crest, his sigil includes the pointed star of Christmas.''
''Pola the Sophist of Jerbiton''
''Age: 81 (Apparent Age: 51) Personality Traits: Precise +3, Haughty +1, Impatient +2''
''Pola is a descendent of a Jerbiton magus who was a noted Gorgiastic — a member of House Criamon who left the House and rejected its teachings about the Enigma. Over time the lineage has developed into a peripatetic tradition of rhetoricians and skillful advocates by focusing on the teachings of Gorgias and the other Sophists. Some of its younger scions have more recently been adopted into House Tytalus on merit. An excellent speaker, Pola considers the art of debate an expression of beauty and strives to further its popularity as an alternative means of resolving disputes to more distasteful practices such as certamen or Wizard’s War. Out of all the consuls, she is the one most likely to act as a patron to visiting magi. As the maga nominally in charge of the Avignon holdings of the covenant, she is responsible for supervising Jerbiton apprentices passing through the Coenobium’s sphere of influence while journeying on their Itinerarium to or from the covenant of Eboris in Paris.''
''Xiphos filia Damocles of Jerbiton''
''Age: 73 (Apparent Age: 54) Personality Traits: Ill-tempered +3, Intolerant +2, Cruel +2''
''This disgraced Terram master hoplite, hailing from beyond the Provençal Tribunal, was expelled from House Guernicus for repeated behavior unbecoming for a hoplite. At the unexpected insistence of Primus''

[|

==The Masques of the Coenobium==

''Although Hermetic magi have long dominated the southern Rhone valley and the coast of Provence, they have chosen not to supplant the local hedge wizards or masques but instead foster the lesser witches and magicians of the area. This arrangement has proved beneficial to both groups over the last two centuries, although the Hermetic magi remain the dominant partners in the alliance. The network of folk-witches, cunning folk, faerie doctors, and herbalists relies on the wider covenant for protection from the mundane authorities and Hermetic aggression. In return they pro''
''vide a network of unGifted informants and agents throughout the southern coast and Alpine foothills that helps protect the covenant’s extensive mundane interests while allowing the magi to remain within the letter of the Code. The allied masques also harvest and protect vis sources in the area, provide minor protective amulets and charms to the covenfolk and other agents of the covenant, and increase the magi’s influence over the mundane folk of the local area. The Coenobium may be an appropriate base for troupes wishing to try their hand at a non-Hermetic saga.''

|]
''Andru of Jerbiton, she has been grudgingly accepted into House Jerbiton and given a chance to reform. The exact details of her pardon are uncertain, but she appears bound to the provision that she use her talents to support the stability of the Coenobium. Her less martial Housemates may pursue their concepts of Beauty and Taste, but they do so with minimal disruption from magical threats due to her efforts. Xiphos claims descent from a legendary''
''Guernicus Terrae-magus known as Adamantius, and has almost complete mastery over metal and blades.''
''Lavandarius the Pralician, Ex Miscellanea''
''Age: 67 (Apparent Age: 38) Personality Traits: Cautious +3, Diplomatic +2, Charming +2''
''This wizard is the current liaison between the Coenobium and their hedge wizard allies. A Gifted student of one of the local herbalist traditions, he was adopted by his Pralician parens as her second Hermetic apprentice. Lavandarius’s lineage has been responsible for the extensive integration of hedge wizards from the local area into the covenant’s roster. This policy is supported by Alazais but is considered wildly unorthodox by more conservative magi of''

[|

==Saga Seeds: Joining the Coenobium==

''There are no official restrictions preventing new Hermetic settlements in eastern Provençal, particularly when compared to the tradition-bound Rhine Tribunal or the feudal arrangements of the Normandy Tribunal. Establishing a new Spring covenant in Provence beneath the shadow of the Coenobium may be difficult, but not impossible. Although not adopting an overtly threatening stance, the combined Jerbiton and Mercere grip on the surrounding mundane lands is very strong. The majority of vis sources and supernatural resources are already claimed directly or controlled by the Coenobium’s hedge wizard allies. The competitive advantage of such an Autumn covenant of two dozen magi that can act in a coordinated manner is significant. There have notably been no independent attempts to establish a new covenant in southern Provence since the Coenobium’s founding over a century ago. It is unclear whether this is due to indirect or subtle interference by the established covenant, or just due to the clear advantages of joining the existing covenant structure, albeit under considerable conditions compared to elsewhere in the region. Fortunately, the multiple sites, inherent hospitality, ongoing need for both mundane and magical specialists, and a recent change in overall philosophy toward accepting members of other Houses make the Coenobium an excellent base for beginning characters and traveling magi. Player magi should be able to negotiate support for their own goals if they can demonstrate that their activities are in the interests of the local Hermetic community, albeit at the price of independence.''
''Just Visit, Act Tastefully, and Don’t Leave...''
''In addition to the consuls, up to a dozen visiting or independent magi are associated with the covenant on a regular basis, including up to half a dozen newly Gauntleted Jerbiton magi resting between stages of their Itinerarium. Although not entitled to vote, visitors who behave according to the covenant’s philosophy are accorded considerable hospitality and can petition for use of the covenant’s resources, requiring the approval of their patron and two other consuls. While not officially members, this arrangement is so similar to the structure of many Autumn covenants throughout the Order that the distinction matters little in practice.''
''If You Can’t be Tasteful, be Uniquely Useful''
''Dominated by the less magically adept and more peaceful Houses of Jerbiton and Mercere, the Coenobium increasingly needs magi with particular magical skills it lacks to sustain its wider activities, protect it from magical threats, and support its large population. Many of the Jerbiton magi are generalists or have sacrificed their magical development to concentrate on developing the covenant’s political power and temporal influence. Hermetic specialists such as Calais or Xiphos capable of high-magnitude magic or rituals within a narrow field of expertise are invited to join or granted access to the covenant’s resources as an incentive to support the Coenobium’s goals. More recently, magi from Ex Miscellanea are particularly''
''sought, as the consuls find that their needs are often better met by more unusual magics and are distrustful of the uglier traditional philosophies of Flambeau, Tremere, and Tytalus magi. Characters with skill at wards, transportation magic or weather magic are particularly desired, although a non-Tremere certamen champion would be considered a valuable asset to help further Alazais’ goals. Magi with aptitude in Teaching are also highly sought to help train the Jerbiton apprentices, as their masters may not have developed their Arts scores sufficiently due to their preferred pursuit of non-magical fields of study.''
''Reclaim a Lost Site or Resource of Value''
''In the aftermath of the Wizard’s War against the magi of Fraxinetum and the rise of the Coenobium, many of the former covenant sites of the founding magi were abandoned as the community closed ranks and established itself. Some locations have been restored or converted into chapters occupied by a single magus but there are still many eligible resources that need attention. Reclaiming the Alpine sites or the nearby Barbegal mill-complex are both projects that would readily attract a sponsor. Either would be a great boon to the Coenobium, which has some difficulty accessing sites with high Magic auras. Magi who establish a chapter house under the patronage of one of the existing consuls and demonstrate their worth, will be in a good position to petition for official membership or even declare themselves independent of the Coenobium.''

|]
''the northern Tribunals of Normandy and the Rhine in particular. Although officially one of the few nonJerbiton consuls, he is not assigned to visiting magi as a patron, but has been given extended responsibility over the more powerful hedge magicians that visit the towns controlled by the Coenobium. He is continuing his mater’s work toward integrating the herbalist’s folk practices into standard Hermetic Theory. Progress has been slow. His familiar is a common asp he discovered amidst the lavender fields of the Hyeres.''
''Argentius of Mercere, the Invited Redcap''
''Age: 49 (Apparent Age: 41) Personality Traits: Wrathful +3, Gloomy +2, Pious +2''
''This former weapon-master of Valnastium is living a second life. Once known as Auriel Blake, he is now known as the Redcap Argentius. Auriel was seemingly slain by the disgraced magus Damocles in a mundane duel, but then restored to life by a miracle produced by the greater relic of St Michael he carries within his sword pommel. Since recovering from his fatal injury, he has been accepted as a Redcap of the Coenobium as part of Alazais’ plans. Still coping with his return from death, he remains distanced from the other covenfolk, who regard him with a mixture of reverence and fear. His resurrection appears to have awakened the latent magical powers of his Heroes’ Birthright Major Virtue, and many magi are uncertain whether to treat him as a hedge magician or respect his unorthodox Redcap status. Argentius has developed a remarkable control over swords and other bladed weapons, and has formed an unlikely friendship with his murderer’s former apprentice, Xiphos. He now believes, perhaps correctly, that the sword he carries is the mythical Sword of Ares — the weapon reputedly carried by Attila on his rampage into western Europe as “Scourge of God.” To date he has not allowed investigation of his weapon to verify this claim.''

==Covenfolk==

''The Coenobium has no official roster of covenfolk — each consul maintains his or her own staff or agency of minions, grogs and allies depending on how best this allows them to pursue their interests (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 140–144 for more details on Agents). For many of the Jerbiton magi, their staff consists of their servants and unGifted family members, as well as any specialist companions they may support through mundane patronage including academics, artists, artisans, and more recently accomplished troubadours. Although not afforded the same level of respect as Hermetic magi, many of the local Provençal hedge wizards are considered allies of the Coenobium, providing a wider base of albeit lesser magical resources than would otherwise be expected from a covenant of non-magically inclined Jerbiton magi. This is mainly thanks to the political efforts of a dedicated lineage of Pralician magi, such as Lavandarius. The First Consul has the established right to ask another maga, consul or visitor, to make use of their mundane and magical resources on behalf of the covenant, but the maga is under no obligation to agree. Most Coenobium magi appreciate the advantages of cooperating, citing the precedent of the covenant’s founding in response to the common threat of Fraxinetum. The current First Consul, as Chief Redcap, can draw on an extensive network of Redcaps, retired Redcaps, and their families to pursue her agenda and policies, as well as trading on the goodwill she has garnered by promoting the Coenobium’s interests and growth.''

==Culture & Traditions==

''“Together we rule, divided we fall.”   – motto of the Coenobium Somewhat unusually, the Coenobium is currently led by the UnGifted Chief Redcap of Provençal, Alazais of Mercere. As First Consul, she acts on their behalf as both auto''
''crat and leader, allowing the majority of magi to pursue their own interests for much of the year. Full members are termed consuls and are predominantly Jerbiton magi, although several magi from other Houses and a few Redcaps have been accorded this privilege.''
''Hospitality and Courtesy''
''The Jerbiton magi of the Coenobium take their duties as hosts to magi visiting one of their towns on the Rhone very seriously, priding themselves on their covenant’s welcoming reputation. All guests are offered food, lodgings and laboratory space if requested. The consuls select one of their number to act as patron for the guest for the duration of their stay, an honor usually reserved for Jerbiton magi. In return for their goodwill and support, the Coenobium expects visiting magi to:''
''• introduce themselves properly, preferably announcing their intention to visit beforehand by Redcap • bring a small gift, traditionally a silver florin containing one pawn of vis • state the purpose of their visit and its likely duration, informing their patron when they are leaving • conduct themselves with decorum and restraint at all times, aiding their patron if asked • leave immediately if requested.''
''The chosen patron is expected to familiarize the visitor with these expectations of courtesy and is responsible for the actions of the visitor during their stay. In addition, the patron is required to protect the guest from harm or inconvenience and present them with a symbolic gift on their departure. Although it carries more responsibility than tangible benefit, patrons are highly regarded by the other members of the Coenobium for their sacrifice. They may call upon other members of the covenant to support them in their duties or otherwise ask for a season of service to be waived in return for their time and effort.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
