
=The County of Toulouse=

''The County of Toulouse lies in the center of the Tribunal, situated in a shallow depression between the heights of the Pyrenees and the highlands of Provence. It is a land of castles, with the ranges of hills and rocky outcrops that rise above the plain topped by scattered fortifications. The towns and villages are built of either wattle, daub, and wood, or in the famous local brick that ranges in color from vivid pinks to bright reds. At dawn and sunset the “red towns” of the region glow with the sunlight’s reflection on the brick houses, and the beauty of the scene is much remarked upon by northern visitors. Toulouse is a dusty land of orchards, vineyards and farms, crisscrossed by wide drovers’ trails (sometimes a mile across). Vast flocks of cattle, sheep, and goats are driven to their summer pastures in the Pyrenees in late spring, and back to the lowland pastures in early autumn.''

==The Counts of Toulouse==

''After the Merovingian conquest of the region, royal appointees were set over Toulouse to administer the district, taking the title of comte. During the Carolingian era the role became hereditary, passing through primogeniture on the male side, though in the absence of a suitable male heir a daughter could inherit. The dynasty produced the Countess Phillippa Maude, Duchess of Aquitaine, in the late eleventh century; the title may well pass to a woman in the future. The current heir is Raimond, son of Raimond VI, however, and his daughter Joan, born in 1220, will only become countess if he has no sons.''
''The counts soon adopted the ways and language of the region and were unwilling to honor their duties as vassals of the French king, remaining fiercely autonomous and placing the County of Toulouse outside of France. Raimond III in the early tenth century expanded the County to include all of former Septimania, and in the reign of Raimond IV (1093-1105) the count took possession of the marquisate of Provence and the Narbonnais region, becoming overlord of almost all of what is today the Provençal Tribunal. His marriage to Elvira of Aragon provided him with influence over the southern regions under the rule of the Kingdom of Aragon; only Gascony remained outside his reach. The reign of Raimond IV marked a high point in the power of the counts, and his successor Raimond V created the capitouls of Toulouse (see page 34), a ruling council with full legislative and judicial powers, who rule alongside the counts. In 1188 the capitouls seized more power, but Raimond VI (who has ruled since 1194) has made no attempt to reassert his authority. His easy-going tolerance, extension of tax exemptions, and distraction by the Crusade against his lands has allowed the creation of a prosperous “middle class” of non-noble merchants and landowners, many of whom owe no allegiance to any lord and whose wealth is often as great as or greater than that of the great nobles of the region. Likewise, many lords have long since cast off the chains of vassalage, just as the counts of Toulouse have long been independent of their nominal royal liege. More than in many regions of Mythic Europe, characters may stand independent of the feudal system, and avoid the oaths of allegiance that prove a stumbling block that many covenants in less fortunate regions must work around. Since the Crusade began Raimond has been stripped of many titles, and following his loss of Toulouse in 1213 to Simon''
''de Montfort he was forced into a four year exile, much of which was spent with his son petitioning the pope for the restoration of his vast estates. In 1216 Simon de Montfort declared himself count of Toulouse, but following Raimond’s return in 1217 and the active campaign to drive the crusaders from the region, Raimond has won back many of his former vassals. In 1218 Simon de Montfort was killed besieging Toulouse, and while Raimond’s claims to the title are currently maintained by military force, he still works assiduously to be once again recognized as the legitimate count of Toulouse (a title claimed by Simon’s son, Amaury). Today, following the failure of the Royal Crusade of 1217, when Prince Louis’ army was turned back outside the walls of Toulouse, Raimond is firmly in control of the city and holds parts of the county. Whether he can reach agreement with the French throne and papacy and pass his inheritance to his faithful son remains to be seen. Raimond has one rather surprising supporter: Arnaud Almaric, the papal legate who uttered the infamous words outside Béziers, “Kill them all; God will know his own.” Unlike the bishop of Toulouse, Foulques de Marseilles, who remains an implacable enemy of the count, Amalric the legate, a long time supporter of the Crusade, switched sides after the death of de Montfort and made his peace with Raimond.''

[|

==Toulouse Covenants==

''Current Covenants: Ostal des Exiles, Tolosa Paratge Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Windgraven, Lariander''

|]

==Faith & Flame Toulouse==

''The regional capital, Toulouse is the most important city of the county and one of the largest, most cultured, and most prosperous cities in Mythic Europe. It forms the heart of the Languedoc; a former Roman and Visigothic capital, it is the city the whole region looks to, and regards itself as far more advanced economically and culturally than its northern rival, Paris. The inhabitants are ruled over by the counts, and an elected body, the Capitole, to whom the counts have abdicated much power. The only rival is the bishop who shares responsibility for justice within the city, a shared prerogative that leads to considerable turmoil and tension.''

==The Walls==

''Toulouse has a strong city wall that has withstood repeated sieges. It was besieged unsuccessfully by Simon de Montfort in the''
''summer of 1211, though it opened its gates to him in 1215. After being expelled by the popular rising in the autumn of 1216, de Montfort unsuccessfully besieged the city from autumn 1217 until his death outside the walls in the summer of 1218. The summer of 1219 saw the Dauphin Louis unsuccessfully besiege the city once again, withdrawing as pestilence broke out in his army. The count’s castle, the Château Narbonnais, stands on the western edge of Toulouse, within the city walls, and guards the western approaches to the city through a great gate. Simon de Montfort’s wife Alice was forced to surrender the castle after holding out against the townsfolk on the return of Count Raimond in the autumn of 1217, but it usually forms a citadel if the walls of the city proper are breached.''

==The Capitole==

''It is rare for Hermetic culture to influence mundane society, but the Capitole of Toulouse was influenced by the Hermetic''
''Tribunal system. It was in return for unspecified favors from the Order of Hermes that Count Raimond IV in 1154 set up an elected chapter of magistrates to judge trade disputes and oversee legal cases on his behalf. (The law of the region is a magisterial system, based on Roman and Visigothic law, rather than the jury system of the north; Lion and the Lily, page 104). Originally consisting of four lawyers, two judges, and six prominent townsfolk known as sheriffs and appointed by the count, in 1188 the elected sheriffs expelled the judges and lawyers and took over their functions, and the Capitole took on the rights to control the guard, raise a militia, declare war, raise and set taxes, and regulate trade. Count Raimond V acquiesced, distracted by a conflict with Aragon and England, and since that time the twelve elected sheriffs, or capitouls, have effectively ruled Toulouse with the consent of the count. The capitouls are elected by the householders of Toulouse who are of good standing and meet a wealth qualification, and each of six districts returns two capitouls to the Capitole building. Elections are held ev''
''ery seven years or if required by the death of an incumbent. The term capitole applies not just to the building, but also to the 12 capitouls as a body. The capitouls purchased a number of houses in 1190 that have been knocked together into the Capitole building, where citizens can petition the capitouls and where trade disputes, matters of taxation and guild laws, and justice are decided, and the capitouls work for the good of Toulouse. Considerable wealth, influence, or a story about the struggle to win them over will often be needed to get a favorable ruling. The capitouls are often split by their personal political agendas and those of the vested interests they represent, and a simple majority is needed to pass a law. Those who serve as capitouls are treated as at least minor nobility for the rest of their lives, regardless of actual birth status; they are treated with great respect and accorded the honorific title “sheriff” even after their term of office ends.''

==Two Churchmen==

''Two churchmen associated with Toulouse will help determine the fate of the region. Both of them have had dealings with the Order of Hermes in the past, and undoubtedly will again in the future, but both are extremely dangerous men who must be handled with great care if disaster is to be avoided.''
''Foulques de Marseilles, Bishop of Toulouse''
''One of the most controversial figures in the region, and one of the most powerful, Foulques de Marseilles is the bishop of Toulouse. He is hated and vilified by the majority of its citizens, even those formerly loyal to the Church. In his youth he was a troubadour of considerable prowess and reputation; a vision experienced 25 years ago caused him to renounce his former wicked ways. Now he is moved to tears and stern penance whenever he hears one of his songs sung, horrified that his vices endure. Entering the Church, he became a strong opponent of the moral laxity and easy going ways of life in the region, and in particular''
''a vigorous foe of heresy. He has three main targets that rouse him to fury: heretics, troubadours, and moneylenders, and as many of the latter are Jewish he has developed a strong dislike for the Jews. A firm supporter of Dominic and the Dominican mission of preaching to the heretics, his appointment as bishop of Toulouse to replace the former corrupt and religiously indifferent bishop was troubled, with the direct intervention of the pope needed to secure his cathedral. So hostile had the citizens of Toulouse become to the Church that he required an armed bodyguard at all times, and eventually he came to return that hostility. When the Crusade was declared he had long been unable to enter his diocese for his own safety, and joined the crusaders. While Count Raimond made some efforts to win him over, even giving him the Châteaux Narbonnais, the castle within the city, they soon became bitter enemies, and Foulques is currently to be found riding with the crusaders, and constantly urging that Toulouse be taken and the heretics be exterminated. He favors the idea of an Inquisition, a clerical group of investigators to seek out and try heresy, and execute the guilty. If your saga follows history this will emerge as a real force in the 1230s, and the Cathars will be destroyed within two decades. As a young man Foulques entered Tolosa Paratge as an exceptionally talented troubadour, though his mind may have been subsequently magically modified or he may have simply dismissed the episode as a dream. He is aware of the Order of Hermes, and through his dealings with the Quaesitor Augustus, who had come to see the heretics as destroying the civilizations of the south through a mundane version of “bringing ruin upon their sodales,” has considerable respect for them. He is unaware of the Cathar magi, but is aware that a''
''number of scholars reside within Toulouse and practice what he regards as Natural Magic (see Art & Academe, page 67). He has no inkling of the true power of the Order, and if his good impression were altered by meeting with evidence of heretic magi who oppose his beliefs, he would become terrible enemy of the Order and certainly add them to his list of targets for the crusade, unless the papacy ordered otherwise. As such he presents a terrible latent threat to the Hermetic community.''
''The Brotherhoods''
''In 1209 Bishop Foulque created the White Brotherhood, a society of citizens willing to take up arms to destroy the poison of heresy and moneylenders, oppose Count Raimond, and support the crusade. While the White Brotherhood — so called because they donned white robes and masks or hoods for their midnight arrests and acts of terror — were fundamentally loyal to the Church and the bishop, they were also Toulouse loyalists. The Brotherhood suffered a fatal blow from the defection of the bishop and many churchmen who escaped when the city was besieged by Simon de Montfort. Fearing a repeat of Béziers, many of the brotherhood took up arms against the crusaders. After the formation of the White Brotherhood, which was guilty of acts of murderous violence, lynching, and rioting in the streets, an opposing group — the Black Brotherhood — was formed. Whereas the White Brotherhood was mainly drawn from the city itself, the Black Brotherhood came largely from the suburbs and surrounding countryside. They fought on the streets protecting the Cathars and Jewish population from the White Brother''

[|

==Toulouse, City of Towers==

''Toulouse’s more prosperous citizens have long grown used to the occasional violence and turmoil of city life, and a number of minor noble families, capitouls, and wealthy citizens have invested in fortified towers within the city and a small guard, analogous to the Order’s grogs. While de Montfort had the tow''
''ers attached to the city wall razed after taking the city, there are still at least 20 towers within the city, and one is held by the “white” faction of the covenant of Tolosa Paratge. Acquiring or building a tower is a perfectly sensible option for magi or Wealthy companions who wish to maintain a presence in the city.''

|]
''hood’s terror, committing atrocities of their own. Since the siege of Toulouse ended, the Brotherhoods have weakened but still lurk in the streets at night. Both groups are reduced to a small and violent fanatical core. Membership in either may constitute the Flaw: Dark Secret for any character still involved. The conflict has had two main results. Firstly, a strong strain of anti-semitism has emerged among the former Whites, and threatens the Jewish community. Secondly, usury (the sin of lending money at interest), long accepted as necessary for business in the city, has been outlawed and raising finance is now much harder. Cahors has replaced Toulouse as one of the few cities where moneylenders still openly practice their profession.''
''Bishop Arnaud Amalric, Friend to the South?''
''For the last twenty years, Bishop Arnaud Amalric has led the Church’s campaign to win back the South from heresy. Arnaud has long been one of the most effective figures in the organization and pursuit of the Crusade, and traveled with de Montfort, presiding over the burning of Cathars and the massacres of the resisting population. Yet in 1220 Arnaud has made peace with Count Raimond, finally convinced of the count’s piety, and has realized that the culture of the region is under a real threat from the French crown. Never a supporter of French territorial claims, he remains sympathetic to Alice and Amaury de Montfort, but firmly resists the French advances into the region, and since his appointment as bishop of Narbonne in 1212 has defended the rights of the local Church from the imposition of Northerners.''
''Arnaud is a Cistercian monk and, while dedicated to the fight against heresy, a man of great education and considerable scholarship. He has, since de Montfort’s death, befriended a young knight of Pujol, a castle not far from the city where he often resides. That knight is Carolus St.Tropez, and St.Tropez has influenced Arnaud significantly, hardening his heart against the French and re-awakening his Southern nationalist sympathies. Arnaud is not aware that St.Tropez is a member of the Order of Hermes, but he regards the Order as a loose confraternity of scholars and natural magicians and he is positively disposed to them, providing they pay heed to the doctrines of the Church. If he found the Order was sheltering heretics this opinion would rapidly change. He would use his influence at the papal curia to turn the Church against this new threat, unless the Order was willing to expel the heretics from its ranks.''
''Justice in Toulouse''
''The right to administer justice in Toulouse is, by ancient tradition, shared between the counts and the bishop of the city; both have their own court (though the count’s court is now the Capitole), and on occasion, those convicted by one can appeal successfully to the other. While canon law is the bishop’s domain, and most civil law the count’s, both have encroached on each other’s rights and now the secular law of the city is administered by both. Unlike France, which uses a system of common law (see The Lion and the Lily, p104), Toulouse employs the magisterial system of Roman law, represented by the Ability Civil and Canon Law.''

==Districts of Toulouse==

''The city is divided into six districts, each of which since 1189 has returned two delegates, called capitouls, to the ruling council in the Capitole. The 12 capitouls wear elaborate red robes with black fur trim over a suit of clothing in their district’s colors.''
''Saint-Sernin''
''For centuries the most important pilgrimage site in the region, the great basilica of Saint-Sernin was, somewhat ironically in light of later events, dedicated by Pope Urban on his way to preach the First Crusade at Clermont. An Augustinian monastery, the impressive building of white stone and Toulouse brick with its great octagonal tower and spire towers over the surrounding houses. The colors of Saint Sernin are yellow and white. The abbot is Jordan Giordano, a compassionate man who presides over the college and hospice that treats the poor of the city. Many pilgrims flock here each summer to see the relics.''
''La Pierre''
''The parish of Saint-Pierre des Cuisines stands by the River Garonne, and is home to river-folk, a poorer district of the city with a reputation for vice and thievery. The local prostitutes are known as Magdalenes, after the legendary career of the biblical Mary of that place. The church itself is the oldest in the Tribunal, and was an early Christian place of worship, though the present structure is only two centuries old and is owned by the Benedictine monks of Moissac. It is by tradition the place where the courts of justice presided over by the counts are held, the promulgations of the capitouls are declared to the people, and where the counts make important announcements or sign important documents before the multitude. As such, it holds a peculiar status considering it is very much the ecclesiastical poor relation of Saint-Sernin and Our Lady of the Sea Bream. The color of this district and worn by its capitouls is a deep blue.''

[|

==Story Seed: Residence Requirement==

''A would-be capitoul approaches the companions asking for assistance in his election. He has acquired a residence in the Sainte Maria district, but the rather shabby house is infested with vermin, purportedly haunted, and plagued by vandals and local gangs of thugs supporting a rival candidate. By the law of Toulouse, he must''
''reside here for a month to be a candidate for the elections. Can the characters keep the candidate safe and comfortable in the flea-ridden house for the month’s residence needed to qualify, and can they convince the other capitouls not to pass legislation extending the residence requirement to seven years before the election?''

|]
''Santa Maria Dealbata (St. Mary the White)''
''The Church takes its name from the distinctive lime whitewash used to paint it, and the district is home to many wealthy merchants, though smaller shops and craftspeople also ply their trade here. The artisans''
''of the district have a few wealthy members who resent the power of the merchants in the area, and an ambitious potential capitoul can attempt to bribe his way to power if he wishes to become embroiled in the disputes between craftsman and merchants. The color of the district’s capitouls’ clothing is carnation pink.''
''Saint-Etienne''
''The wealthiest part of the city, SaintEtienne is home to many nobles and prosperous citizens. In Toulouse, wealthy merchants and commoners can aspire to join the petty nobility, but the noble and commoner divide makes much less difference''

[|

==The Mystery of the Regio==

''The regio containing the covenant is in some sense an echo of the ancient lake where the Tolosans offered sacrifices to ward off illness and maintain the prosperity of their city in the centuries before the Romans came to this region. It is known to be linked to the flow of the Garonne River, and this is the basis of Adam’s experiments. What the magi of Tolouse do not realize is that it is also linked to the power and prosperity of the city itself – the recent catastrophic weakening of the aura and difficulty in reaching the regio was at least partially the result of the conquest by de Montfort, and the fall of Toulouse into internal conflict. The very magi reflect these tensions, and are driven in some mysterious way by these forces, as mirrored in the recent tragedies that have afflicted the covenant. Only if someone realizes that the city must be healed to save the covenant, and restores the pursuit of learning and culture, by perhaps founding a university within the city walls, or doing more to encourage Occitanian culture, will the regio survive. It is a by-product of the powerful genius loci of the city itself. Adam’s experiment with La Garonne is simply a first step; it was the increased prosperity of the mills and shareholders, not the flow of water, that has positively effected the regio.''
''The Spirit of Tolosa (Genius Loci, Autumn)''
''Magic Might: 40 (Aquam) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +1, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: N/A Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues & Flaws: Magic Spirit, Ways of the Land (Toulouse); Entrancement; Affinity with Area Lore, Inoffensive to those of the Magic Realm*, Magic''
''Sensitivity, Puissant Area Lore; Dependent (citizens), Servant of the Land* (Toulouse); Anchored to the Land (Toulouse)*, Incomprehensible, Soft-Hearted, Susceptible to Infernal Power. Magical Qualities: Greater Power, No Fatigue, Ritual Power x6; Gift of Speech, Improved Abilities, Improved Powers x10, Vis Mastery (Aquam). Personality Traits: Soft-Hearted +3 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: N/A Wound Penalties: N/A Abilities: Area Lore: County of Toulouse 18+2 (city of Toulouse), Artes Liberales 1 (poetry), Awareness 1 (fires), Folk Ken 5 (Toulousain residents), Bargain 1 (Toulouse), Carouse 1 (poetry), Charm 3 (strangers), Civil & Canon Law 1 (Toulouse), Entrancement 2 (citizens), Living Language: Occitan 5 (Provençal/Languedoc), Magic Sensitivity 2 (regiones), Organization Lore: Tolosate 1 (lake sacrifices), Penetration 4 (Mentem) Powers Sturdy Walls of Toulouse, 8 points, Terram, Init +2. Heals breaches in the city walls, the missing stone magically repairing itself until sunset or sunrise when it suddenly collapses away leaving the holes. (–2 points for Improved Powers, +22 Init.) The Silent Counsel, 4 points, Mentem, Init –2. Subtly influences a group of people, such as the bishop, or the capitouls in session, toward the best outcome for the city as a whole. Human Shape, 1 point, Corpus, Init –1. Allows the spirit to physically manifest until the next sunrise or sunset as a nondescript member of the lower orders of Toulousain society. The penalties imposed by The Gift still apply; the spirit is somehow disturbing and''
''stands out, despite appearing very average in every way. Grant Blessing of the City, 5 points, Vim, Init –19. The recipient of this power suddenly prospers, as everything turns to their favor, and gains the Virtue Ways of Toulouse until such a time as the spirit chooses to withdraw it. However the Might cost is not recovered by the spirit until it ends the effect. (Improved powers: Might cost: 5, Initiative +1) Oath Swearing, 8 points, Vim, Init –9. This power is very unusual, in that it works only upon the steps of the church of Saint-Pierre des Cuisines, where by tradition the counts of Toulouse make oaths to the people, and where capitouls swear their vows to serve the city. (The steps have a tiny Magic aura of 1, a lacuna). If the power Penetrates, then the oath made before the people is binding. If it is broken, even inadvertently and secretly, then (mostly) false rumors about the individual concerned spring up among the citizens, and throughout the county of Toulouse, and he gains the Minor Flaw Infamous, even if the actual nature of their indiscretion remains unknown. (Improved Powers: cost: 2, Initiative +1) Appearance: The genius loci of Toulouse usually manifests, if seen by Second Sight, as a damp mist, or a figure of indeterminate gender seemingly made out of water and pond reeds. It answers only to the name Tolosa, and the magi tend to avoid interfering with it, though they are aware it has weakened substantially in recent years. At night it can sometimes be found manifested in its human form, as a fisherman sitting on Adam Carpentiere’s river barrage fishing, and is only too willing to chat to anyone. It rarely makes much sense though, at least to short-lived mortals.''

|]
''than even in other parts of the Provençal Tribunal. It is largely ignored in practice, much to the disgust of those of noble blood from elsewhere. Wealth, taste, culture, and political influence are far more important than good birth in the city. The cathedral of Saint-Etienne is built on the site of an ancient chapel founded by Saint Sernin himself, but perhaps because of the often rabid pronouncements and great unpopularity of Bishop Foulque, currently in self-imposed exile, it lacks the status of the other city churches. The Romanesque basilica is constantly being added to and improved, and is currently wreathed in scaffolding. The colors of the district are violet and white.''
''Pont-Vieux''
''This is the area around the oldest bridge across the River Garonne, and its colors are amaranth (a maroon color) and white. Here a large wooden boom has recently been constructed that is designed to narrow the river, and increase the speed of the current''
''for the benefit of the many watermills used by the industry of the region. The Toulousain magus Adam Carpentiere has enchanted this huge device, using a number of small items built into the structure, to serve two purposes. Firstly and mundanely, it allows the safe regulation of the river flow, preventing flooding even when the melting snows swell the river. Secondly, in some manner not fully understood by most magi, the boom supports the continued existence of the regio in which Tolosa Paratge exists, which is bound to the flow of the river, and had been weakening in recent decades, as silting made it less navigable.''
''Daraude, the District of the Sea Bream''
''This is the quarter closest to the River Garonne, and has the colors of green and white. It is the site of the church of Our Lady of the Sea Bream, a twelve-sided basilica with a fine dome and finer gold mosaics, which holds a Black Madonna statue,''
''Notre-Dame Noire. The church, built on the foundations of an ancient Roman temple to Apollo, is attached to a Benedictine monastery. In early May each year a procession of flowers is brought here, the church decorated, and a public feast held. If your saga follows history then within ten years the Augustinian poetry contest held in the orchard of Saint-Sernin will be transferred here, and develop into the Festival of the Flowers, where gold and silver flowers are awarded to the finest Occitanian compositions. The area is both Toulouse-nationalist and loyal to the Church, with Cathars unwelcome here.''

==Tolosa Paratge==

''Situated in a regio within the city of Toulouse, amidst the ghostly memory of a once holy lake, this cosmopolitan covenant is composed of nine magi from five Houses: Jerbiton, Flambeau, Criamon, Ex Miscellanea, and a single Verditius. As an ancient, long established covenant, they have weathered centuries of Hermetic politics, but recent crises in the mundane world threaten to tear them apart. They have fallen victim to internal dissent and something akin to civil war, with recent Wizard’s Wars called between members of the covenant having claimed two magi, leaving the rest in fear. They guard the genius loci of the city, and see themselves as servants of the city; when the citizens turned against themselves, madness and death struck the covenant. Some favor the Cathar cause, while others remain loyal to the Church, and both the Black and''

[|

==The Magic Lake==

''In ancient times, the inhabitants of Toulouse propitiated a spirit in a lake on the Garonne in what is now this district of the city. When pestilence spread from the marshy regions around the lake, offerings of gold and silver were consecrated and sacrificed to the lake waters, and the disease died away. No one knows the name of the deity who dwelled in the lake, but in 106 BC the Roman governor Quintus Caepio Severus had the lake drained, and took the great treasure that had accumulated in the muddy bottom. Rumor has it that something else, something more potent, more disturbing, was recovered from the lake; no one knows what it was, but many stories are told to this day. No immediate harm befell Severus despite the warnings of the Tolosate priests, and he founded a temple to Apollo here on what was once the site of the mysterious lake. The Tolosates, however, took the sacrilege badly, and rose for the first time in revolt against Rome. Within a year Severus was dead, killed in battle, and his treasure taken. Some say it is the''
''same as the mysterious treasure that the Cathars are said to hold, rumored to be kept at the mountain fortress of Montsegur in the Pyrenees. The Romans retook the city, and rebuilt the temple to Apollo. Later the temple was replaced with the church, with its mysterious Black Madonna. Yet the lake still exists; if one knows the right signs, or is simply lost in an evening mist amidst the twisting alleys of the waterfront, it is possible, though difficult, to enter a regio (Magic aura 3). Within the regio the houses and streets exist, now empty, and the streets become increasingly deep in water as one moves toward the river. Soon only the roofs of the houses project above a lake lost to the mundane world for well over a millennium, and swirling mists drift over the still black waters. Those who know the secret ways can pass from roof to roof to where the final house vanishes beneath the lapping waters, and a rowing boat waits to take visitors to the small island on which an octagonal tower and cluster of houses hold the labs and council chambers of the magi of Tolosa Paratge.''

|]
''White Brotherhoods claimed the support of some of the magi. All of them share a passion to protect their Southern homeland against the Crusade, yet the religious question is tearing them apart. As madness drags them deeper into Winter, perhaps only a Quaesitor’s intervention can prevent their self destruction. The covenant is hopelessly divided into two factions. The magi who support Bishop Foulques are currently too fearful to enter the regio and have established laboratories in the city. The pro-Cathar magi have holed themselves up in the regio, fearing to leave, besieged by their former colleagues, and waiting for the inevitable outbreak of further Wizard’s Wars. Both sides are acting in a manner that would scandalize most of the Order if it were more generally known.''

==History==

''Tolosa Paratge was founded in the first wave of the Order of Hermes, and was one of the four original covenants of the Val Negra Tribunal. A House Diedne covenant, it was unusual for its size, having six or more members for two centuries. Once a leading site for Diedne magical research, the magi were rumored, unusually for their House, to be specialists in spirit magic, and developed a slightly sinister reputation within the Tribunal. Their refusal to admit a deputation of Quaesitors following the mysterious death''
''of the senior Tremere maga in the Tribunal was one of the first incidents in the tragic events leading up to the Schism War. During the Schism War the magi of the covenant were killed in a spectacular assault led by a group of Flambeau magi, and the site was garrisoned by them until the arrival of the Gorgiastic Cathar Anaïs. She led the reconstruction of the covenant as a multi-House site. As Toulouse expanded, so the regio became harder to access, but the covenant grew in power and prestige. Some Hermetic historians believe Anaïs’ teachings, which proved influential among the grogs, may have been a factor in the development of Cathar doctrine; others believe the influence was entirely the other way. The covenant is home to the lineage of Gorgiastic Cathars, religious dualists practicing a theurgical faith. Through a series of brilliant magi, Tolosa Paratge became known for its culture, cosmopolitan ways, and the subtle influence it has exerted on the development of many of Toulouse’s intuitions, especially many believe the capitouls. There are also rumors of a legendary treasure concealed at the site, possibly the same treasure Quintus Caepio Severus tried to steal centuries before. Recently, disaster has befallen the covenant. While all the magi resolutely supported the southern cause against the crusaders, following the destruction of Mistridge and Lariander there were increasing fears that very survival of the Order in the region was at stake. Historically the magi of the cov''
''enant, proud of their city, have had strong links with many factions within the walls — the guilds, the bishop, the capitouls, the count, and so on. Magi have occasionally found themselves at cross purposes in their subtle influence of the political factions, but the greater good of Toulouse and the covenant had held them together. The covenant leader Augustus was a high ranking Quaesitor, and made sure no one looked too closely at issues of interfering with mundanes, providing there was no risk of harm to the covenant or Order. The city has changed hands several times during the crusade, but the covenant has remained loyal to the city and refused to deal with a foreign master. However in the weeks before the death of de Montfort in 1218, Augustus was convinced by Bishop Foulques that the city would fall; as a result he asked the Gorgiastic Cathar magi to leave the covenant for their own safety. They refused, and one of them, Marc, bitterly accused the Quaesitor of betraying Tolosa Paratge and all it stood for. He called a Wizard’s War against his covenant mate, something almost unknown in Hermetic society. It seems Augustus did not take this seriously; Marc was, after all, a Cathar pacifist. Marc however, convinced Augustus was under demonic influence, slew him in a rather confused argument in the tower. A month later, St.Tropez declared Wizard’s War on the unresisting Marc, and slew him in turn. Mariola was appointed the new Council Leader, but her inaction led to the''
''covenant rapidly dividing in two: one party, the Blacks, favoring the Cathar cause; the other White party favoring expelling the heretics for bringing ruin upon their sodales. The Blacks are stronger, and currently hold the covenant. The Whites wait in the city, plotting to retake it. Whether this happens by appeal to Tribunal in 1221 or by Wizard’s War remains to be seen. The violence and madness of the times have infected even these covenant mates.''

==Setting and Description==

''The covenant stands within a regio on a small rocky island that rises sharply from the mist-shrouded lake (see the nearby insert, The Magic Lake). A narrow winding path leads up the step cliffs to a selection of red brick townhouses huddled around a central tower, an octagonal structure of black stone eight stories high. A few of the coven folk live permanently on the island along with some of the magi, but many choose to reside within the city of Toulouse. A rowing boat is enchanted to sail to the jetty on the island or the last roof on the shore when someone calls out a short poem in the Occitanian tongue. The lake is haunted by things only glimpsed within the still black waters. Perhaps the inhabitants of Tolosa Paratge know what lurks therein, but if they do they are not saying. The magi maintain an inn within the city, thirty dwelling houses, and have some eighty covenfolk, many of whom are artisans or laborers within the mundane city of Toulouse. Three of the houses have well stocked laboratories underneath despite being within the Dominion, and several magi maintain their sancta in the city, working in the labs on the island and returning to Toulouse to sleep.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Tolosa Paratge is first and foremost a Hermetic covenant, a place of magical study, research, and experimentation. However, while its true purpose — to provide a home and laboratory space for magi — has never been eclipsed, it has also developed a''
''distinct culture well known throughout the Tribunal and beyond. The Tolosates, as the coven members are called, are known for their pride in their ancient heritage as one of the first covenants of the Order and Tribunal. Few dare remind them that a Diedne covenant stood here then. The covenant is ruled by ancient traditions; new magi are welcomed, but must serve ten years before being admitted as full members, unless they were apprenticed and gauntleted within its hallowed walls. The Ability Organization Lore: Tolosa Paratge is used in place of Etiquette for any magus visiting, and by ancient custom guests must be invited before they cross the lake. There are hundreds of traditions; only the residents know them all, and they seem so normal to them that they often fail to advise newcomers, sometimes with embarrassing or even dangerous results. “Paratge” means, roughly, gentility, and the urbane learned and cosmopolitan magi are immensely proud of their Occitanian language, culture and poetry. They have a reputation across the Order of Hermes as generous patrons of artists, poets, troubadours, and original thinkers. Many a great performer has been taken to the mysterious island in the impossible lake to give a recital, and afterward wondered whether they dreamed the whole thing, despite the generous bag of silver by their side when they awoke back in their room. By tradition any magi apprenticed here may wear a small silver flower. Those who are current members wear a golden flower, and those who have both served their apprenticeship and now reside within the covenant wear a flower of gold and silver set with precious gems as a mark of their status.''

==Magi==

''The current magi of the covenant are divided between the factions, with the nominal leader unable to bring them together.''
''Mariola of House Jerbiton''
''Age: 96 (Apparent age: 80) Personality Traits: Proud +2, Indecisive +2, Withdrawn +2''
''The current leader of the covenant, Mariola is a woman with a problem. Apprenticed at the covenant, and fiercely proud of the magical heritage Tolosa Paratge represents, she has seen her sodales fall in the fierce civil war that has erupted, propelling her into a position of leadership she has little interest in. After the deaths of Augustus and Marc she was seen as the one person who could unite the White and Black factions. She has extensive contacts in all sections of the city, but especially with Count Raimond’s and the bishop’s factions; her trusted agents have, in the past, acted as intermediaries between the two. She holds less influence over the capitouls, and is unlikely to be able to influence their votes. A potent Imaginem maga, she has more and more retreated from the impossible challenge she faces, and after she failed to insist on measures against St.Tropez after his slaying of Marc, the covenant has effectively disintegrated. Too proud and too inward looking to seek outside assistance, she is trapped in a spiral of self doubt and inaction, and is firmly locked in her sanctum, agonizing over what to do.''
''Carolus St. Tropez of House Jerbiton, Leader of the White Faction''
''Age: 54 (Apparent age: 42) Personality Traits: Vindictive +3, Determined +2, Pious +1''
''Carolus is a former apprentice of Mariola, and still genuinely fond of his parens. He assumes the guise of a minor southern noble, and indeed maintains a small castle and household at Chateaux Pujol, just outside the city. Like many lords in the region he recognizes no liege but holds the estate independently. When Marc slew Augustus a long term simmering resentment exploded into violence, and St. Tropez declared a Wizard’s War on Marc. Surprisingly, Marc did not defend himself, but allowed the Perdo specialist to slay him. Fearing the vengeance of the other Gorgiastics, Carolus fled into the city, where he rallied many of the grogs and covenfolk to his white banner, swearing that the heretics would be removed from the covenant, and then the city. With his fellow “Whites” he is now at''
''tempting to blockade the regio, though no Wizard’s War has been declared. St. Tropez’s greatest achievement has been to win over Arnaud Almaric, the papal legate, to the southern cause, and to get that infamous churchman to denounce the French throne’s ambitions in the region. St. Tropez believes that the Cathars have brought the judgment of God upon the land; only by their extermination can the region be spared further horrors. No Tribunal has so far found him guilty of breaking the Code, and he may seek martyrdom in an attack on the hated Gorgiastics, his sodales, before he can be convicted.''
''Cyprian of House Flambeau, Leader of the Black Faction''
''Age: 84 (Apparent age: 71) Personality Traits: Dignified +3, Courageous +2, Foolhardy +2''
''In his time, Cyprian has been a troubadour knight and a passionate Seeker, questing for the lost magical secrets of the Tribunal, and he is the parens of Renaud of Stella Durus. Fiercely loyal to the covenant and to Mariola, his years posing as a knight errant and undisputed skill with weapons have led this Perdo Terram specialist to the leadership of the Black faction. A member of the Cult of Mercury, Cyprian is not himself a Cathar; to be honest he regards them as somewhat annoying in their pacifism and mystical beliefs, but he has long felt that Bishop Foulques has betrayed the Church and his honor, and St.Tropez’s slaughter of the defenseless Marc and the subsequent descent into anarchy has made him more than willing to take up arms against his sodales, if only in defense of his home.''
''Adam Carpentiere, Follower of Verditius, White Faction''
''Age: 77 (Apparent age: 65) Personality Traits: Industrious +3, Hubris +3, Avaricious +2''
''Adam has long maintained a sanctum and laboratory within the city, located in a waterfront lacuna with a Magic aura of 2. He is far more involved in city politics than''
''the politics of his home covenant. He has joined the White faction owing only to his deep seated anti-Semitism, for he owes a substantial sum to the Jewish moneylenders of Cahors, and therefore Bishop Foulque’s anti-Semitic and anti-Cathar rhetoric appeals to him. His plans for the enchanted boom across the river to help maintain the regio were resisted by the Gorgiastics, who felt it might adversely effect the aura, and he has never forgotten. Following the Wizard’s Wars he has therefore sided with St. Tropez, whom he regards as representing the best interests of the covenant. Adam is deeply immersed in the magic of Hermetic Architecture (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 97)''
''Raimond of House Ex Miscellanea, Gorgiastic Cathar, Black Faction''
''Age: 41 (Apparent age: 39) Personality Traits: Pacifist +3, Introspective +2, Serene +1''
''Raimond is a Cathar Good Man, and sworn to the faith, though his theurgical beliefs are far from the Divine faith of the majority of mundane Cathars. He believes he has lived many times before, and even lived exactly the same lives in many many cycles of the universe, being reincarnated endlessly. He aims one day to escape the cycle of rebirth by entering Final Twilight, and helping hold open the escape route from the horror of the cycle of eternal recurrence, the sanctuary outside of time. He therefore strives to impose his free will and to act in unexpected ways, hoping to break the pattern of previous lives, and seeks out''
''Twilight experiences, which he sees as a way to step outside of time and modify the endless repetition. He is not afraid to die fighting the White faction, for he is convinced that, should he fail now, in a future cycle he will triumph and help liberate humanity. Besides, Raimond knows that he is doomed to die by drowning in the River Garonne, and so is not frightened of offensive magics.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk of Tolosa Paratge are equally divided between the White and Black factions. Most reside within the mundane city, but given the current state of civil war between the magi some half dozen grogs and a dozen or so covenfolk are currently besieged in the regio. Some of their colleagues remain at large in the city and are attempting to formulate a rescue plan, and they may well approach magi from outside the city, or send Redcaps, to try to gain assistance for their faction. The covenfolk frequently engage in violence on the city streets, and many mundane citizens are caught up in these skirmishes, often becoming actively involved.''

==The Rest of the County==

''While the city of Toulouse dominates its county, it is not the only inhabited location, nor the only place of importance.''

[|

==Story Seed: The Borrowed Book==

''The situation at Tolosa Paratge has long since passed the normal limits imposed upon magi by the Code. Furthermore, both sides are clearly guilty of depriving each other of their magical resources. So far, however, the Quaesitors have not acted. This is due in part to the great respect held for the covenant, but is mainly because no one on either side has so far brought a case. Visitors to Toulouse''
''are treated with wary respect by both sides, but neither exactly encourage visits, being wrapped up in their own conflicts. When it becomes clear however that a valuable text was borrowed before the conflict started, and is now somewhere at Tolosa Paratge, the characters are sent to fetch it back. Can they help bring peace to the troubled covenant, or will they be drawn into the conflicts?''

|]

==Faith & Flame The Toulouse Hinterland==

''The towns around Toulouse stand in golden fields of wheat, with rocky sheep pastures dotted with plants on low hills. Many of the towns have emulated Toulouse in casting off feudal duties and electing capitouls to pass laws and run the towns in the interest of the artisans and burghers. There are many small castles dotted around the region, some held by Crusaders, or those loyal to the Crusade, some by southern lords still sheltering Cathars and faidits (knights dispossessed by the crusade, and now landless and lord-less).''
''Termes''
''One of the strongest castles taken by de Montfort, the news has arrived that the sons of its defender, Oliver and Bernard of Termes, are returning with their men in the spring of 1220. This is very much in the current pattern of the dispossessed southern lords taking back their former lands either through papal intervention or by military strength. Termes is considered one of the three great castles of the region in terms of the strength of its fortifications, along with Cabaret (Lastours) and Minerve.''
''Pujol''
''This small castle and hamlet were home to Carolus St. Tropez, magus of Tolosa Paratge, just three miles from the city. Captured by de Montfort, it was taken back by St. Tropez and handful of men in the summer of 1213. The three crusader knights defending it (who had been burning crops around Toulouse, and perhaps not coincidentally destroying vis sources as well) were taken prisoner, and the rest of the garrison massacred. However, a mob broke into the dungeon in Château Narbonnais where they were being held, mutilated the knights, dragged them behind horses through the streets, and strung up their remains on gallows outside the city walls. St. Tropez believes the knights were controlled by the Gorgiastic Cathar Marc of Toulouse. St. Tropez has since slain Marc in a Wizard’s War.''

==Albi==

''The country south of Albi is notorious for its Cathar sympathies, so much so that the term “Albigensian” was applied to all the heretics, and to the Crusade to exterminate them. The area has many woodlands, and is haunted by the faerie White Ladies known as the Demesoilles. The local vineyards produce an unexceptional, cheap, but palatable wine drunk extensively throughout the whole of the Tribunal, and far beyond.''

==Albi==

''A red brick town on the River Tarn, Albi was a traditional stronghold of the Cathars. When the papal legate Alberic of Ostia came here to preach against the heresy, he was met by the inhabitants beating drums, riding donkeys, and jeering and cat calling. However, Saint Bernard did manage to win over many of the inhabitants temporarily, but the heresy remains strong here even though Simon de Montfort established a garrison. The stone cathedral to Saint Cecilia is the most prominent building in the town, though few attend the mass.''
''Castres''
''Castres is a fortified city that developed around the Benedictine monastery of St. Benoît, and flanks the rivers Agout and Durenque. The upper stories of houses are built out over the rivers. It is governed by consuls, who surrendered to the crusaders by sending a deputation to Simon de Montfort, and handing over two Cathars, in September 1209. They remain sympathetic to the crusade, and are generally seen as looking to France and the de Montfort family rather than Raimond II Trencavel, the heir of their former Trencavel lieges. After their capture the two Good Men were tried, and one recanted and asked for mercy. These were to be the first Cathar victims of the crusade, and a discussion ensued. Eventually the assembled clergy decided he should be burned anyway, in case his repentance was not genuine, and that God could judge his soul. Both men were chained to a stake in the market place, and the fire lit, but even as the flames took the''
''Cathar, the iron chains fell from the repentant sinner, who stepped unharmed from the fire, and so was spared.''

==Agen==

''This region is the far north of the County of Toulouse. It is filled with low ranges of hills and woodlands and known for its sheep, more in keeping with the French landscape than the lands to the south. The area produces fine quality wool, and is prosperous, but the heretics are very strong here.''
''Lavaur''
''This small Trencavel town on the River Agout holds a cathedral dedicated to St. Alan of Lavaur, but is best known as the “citadel of Satan,” being an infamous hotbed of the Cathar heresy. The Bishop of Clairvaux unsuccessfully besieged it in 1181, but in 1211 when the crusaders arrived it appeared impregnable. The town was flanked by high earthen ramparts and walls in a horseshoe, with the rear of the town nestled against a great rocky cliff. A number of faidits had taken refuge here, and the garrison was commanded by Aimery of Montreal and his sister Na Geralda (Guirauda), an educated woman who presided over a convent for female believers, and was a patron of troubadours and scholars. After a six week siege the city fell; Aimery was hanged, but the gallows fell under his armor’s weight and his throat was cut with the rest of the defending knights. His sister fared no better, being handed over to the common soldiery, and after much abuse she was hurled naked down a well and rocks dropped on her till she died. This act shocked and sickened even some of the crusaders. It did not prevent the burning of three or four hundred self-confessed Cathars on a great pyre in a meadow outside the city, where they went willingly to their fate. A number of knights of the Count of Toulouse were discovered within the walls, and his treachery in sending his men to defend Lavaur while also provisioning de Montfort was revealed, finally turning the crusaders irrevocably against him. Lavaur is today a crusader stronghold,''
''held by Gui de Lucy. The meadow where the Cathars were burned has become a field of ashes, where no grass or wild flowers grow, and the atrocity has led to the growth of an Infernal aura of strength 6.''

==Cahors==

''The city of Cahors is notorious for its moneylenders, whose usury has brought condemnation from the Church. The Jewish quarter houses some of these great moneylenders, but by no means all. Twenty years ago, at the insistence of the Church, Toulouse outlawed the mortgage and loan agreements that had been common in the region for centuries, and Cahors has taken over as the place to go to raise money fast. The towns around Cahors are primarily dedicated to the production of the superb local “black wine” (actually a deep red), which is exported all over Mythic Europe. Vineyards can be found on almost every south facing slope, and many are surmounted by castles.''
''Montcuq and Lolmie''
''A stronghold of Catharism, the town of Montcuq has a small castle that fell to de Montfort in the summer of 1212, and was then granted to Count Raimond’s brother Baudouin who had joined the crusaders, against his kin. Baudouin was captured at the nearby Château Lolmie in 1214 when his men betrayed him to two of Raimond’s knights; he was abducted naked from his bedchamber and taken swiftly, slung on horseback, to Montcuq, which had returned to the Toulousain cause. He was hanged for treason as his brother watched approvingly a few days later at Montauban.''
''Morlhon le Haut''
''The Morlhon family had a history of crusading in the Holy Land, and it was while on crusade that Odo de Morlhon had a vision that told him to build a religious establishment dedicated to the Holy Sepulchre. On his return he did so, founding the monastery now under the rule of Cluny at the nearby town of Villeneuve. Despite this''
''the crusaders, on taking the castle, made the lord a faidit, and his titles are still held by the de Montfort family. When the crusaders captured the castle and town in 1214 they found seven Waldensians, and although the Waldensians were not to be declared heretics until the Fourth Lateran Council in''
''1215 the papal legate had all seven burned in the market place anyway. Orthodoxy was no protection during the crusade, as the Lord of Morlhon found when he was dispossessed by the agents of the Church his family had served so faithfully. Pons de Morlhon has become a companion of the''

[|

==Story Seed: The Traitors of Lolmie==

''The garrison at Lolmie saved their own lives by delivering Baudouin to the crusaders. With his dying breath he cursed his brother’s bones to lie unburied forever, and cursed all the traitors of Lolmie to early graves. Many of the men have since died, in what appear to be inexplicable accidents, and the remainder are terrified and come to the covenant seeking help in lifting Baudouin’s curse. Victims of the curse suffer an additional four botch dice until they seek forgiveness. The curse is as a unique Invocation/ Cursing effect of level 60, powered by''
''the dying man’s fury at the betrayal and terrible curse and his death agonies. The Range is special, and effects those who had sworn fealty to Baudouin and subsequently betrayed him, the Duration is until the sin of treachery is confessed and forgiven, and the Target is Group plus an additional magnitude to effect all thirty members of the garrison. (Base 5, +4 as Communion, +4 as Forsaken, +2 Group; see Realms of Power: the Divine Revised Edition, pages 50 and 68, and Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 103) Whether the curse effect is actually Divine or Infernal is best decided by the storyguide.''

==Story Seed: A Rare Vintage==

''Cahors Black is not just a very fine wine; a few flasks, when properly made, contain a potent source of Spell-like vis (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 121). A moneylender who runs the risk of being ruined by an unwise loan to a local noble offers the wine, which he has realized has extraordinary properties, to any person who can enforce his mortgage agreement and recover his money, or payments from''
''the noble. The noble lives in Toulouse, and claims that the payment agreement is illegal (as it now is in that city) and that the debt is canceled. In 1201 existing agreements were honored as the law abolished them, but this agreement was made after mortgages were made illegal. It may take a ruling of the capitouls or the bishop to resolve — is even this special vis really worth it?''

==Story Seed: The Ghost of Na Geralda==

''Lavaur is still haunted by a well known ghost, that of the beautiful and learned noblewoman Na Geralda who was murdered by the crusaders. Her spirit can manifest physically, and is dressed in fashionable noble dress, with no obvious signs of the trauma that led to her horrific death. She attempts to seduce suitable candidates into a fin amor, only revealing her ghostly state some way into the courtship, and then pleading with her lover to give her bones a proper''
''burial. None so far have dared, and if refused she appears as a hideous mutilated corpse showing the horrible scars of her murder, and terrifies her unfaithful lover. The crusaders are aware that the death of Na Geralda was an atrocity, and wish her bones and memory to remain undisturbed so any who do try to lay the ghost to rest face the anger of Gui de Lucy and his men. The crusaders can not see the ghost (no one is sure why) and they do not believe the stories.''

|]
''Ostal des Exiles covenant (see later), and is counseled by the angry ghosts of the seven Waldensian martyrs.''
''Montauban''
''Here Baudouin, Raimond’s brother, was hanged for his treason from a walnut tree outside the city walls, while Raimond and the Count of Foix watched. The Knights Templar maintain a commandery at Villedieu-duTemple, not far away, where Baudouin was buried, his body cut down from the gallows by a Templar knight. The Templars remain largely neutral in the struggles, but their sympathies lie with the crusaders.''
''Puivert''
''Castle Puivert stands in a verdant valley on a low hill in heavily wooded country. The site of a famous meeting of the Cathars in 1170, it is renowned for both its heresy and its warm welcome and generosity to troubadours. Formerly the possession of Bernard of Congost, it fell to de Montfort in 1210 and is now ruled by the crusader Lambert de Thury.''
''Bruniquel''
''Count Raimond was planning to destroy the castle here when he realized it was impossible to defend it against de Montfort, and was dissuaded by his brother Badouin, who took over the garrison. Badouin had, however, already defected to the Crusade, and promptly surrendered the castle. This''
''act of treachery was to cost him his life when he was captured by Raimond.''
''Puilaurens''
''This is the site of a powerful castle, held by the King of Aragon since 1162 and a safe haven for faidits and Cathars fleeing persecution. As an Aragonese fief, the crusaders may not attack it.''
''Montgey''
''This village no longer exists, being just an ashen field. The inhabitants were hanged for their part in the murder of a party of crusaders nearby in 1211. As the crusaders marched to join the siege of Lavaur, the Count of Foix fell upon them with a party of knights and the villagers, and no mercy was shown. Some six hundred crusaders were slaughtered by the peasants. In return, de Montfort showed no mercy to the villagers when he had finished with Lavaur. Both the village site and the wood where the original massacre happened have developed Infernal auras of strength 6, and dark things are seen scurrying through the trees at night. Within the haunted woods here stood the Tremere covenant of Lariander, destroyed by the crusaders in the reprisals.''

==Carcassonne==

''The district around Carcassonne was historically part of the Trencavel domains, and they ruled from the city. Endless war''
''ring with the counts of Toulouse has resulted in a landscape littered with castles. This is a hilly land, with forests of oak and beech, and the villages grow grain or vineyards depending upon the soil. Many pilgrims pass east through the region, en route to Santiago de Compostella in Iberia.''

==Carcassonne==

''Held by the Trencavel dynasty, Carcassonne is a major city that does not always pay fealty to its rulers. In 1107 and from 1120–1124 the Trencavels were expelled following riots and urban unrest, and the city has a reputation as ungovernable. Nevertheless, the citizens remained loyal to the viscount of Béziers, Raimond-Rogier Trencavel, who was taken prisoner during negotiations (and while under a supposed safeconduct) during the siege of 1209, when the crusaders arrived at the city. Raimond-Rogier died of dysentery or poison — none can say which — in the dungeons of his own castle amid rumors of romantic betrayal;  his son, Raimond II Trencavel, was dispossessed of his lands by Simon de Montfort who held the city till his death. It is still in the hands of the crusaders, though young Raimond II, now 17, is attempting to reassert his rights to the title. The Cité de Carcassonne is in 1220 defended by a Visigothic single city wall, added to earlier Roman fortifications, and a stone castle built in the eleventh century. (If your saga follows history, the French kings in 1240 build the mighty fortress city known today.) During the time of Charlemagne, it was ably defended by Lady Carcas, whose husband had been the Saracen commander of the city. Ringed by armies, the inhabitants starving, she ordered that the last of the grain should be fed to the final pig, and it should be fired over the walls at the attackers. When the unfortunate animal landed and burst, the grain spilled out. Seeing this the besieging commander ordered an immediate withdrawal; what was the point of laying siege to a city so well provisioned they fed grain to the pigs? Hence the city is named Carcassonne, after the ingenious lady. The siege of 1209 ended when a severe drought dried up the water supplies and Raimond Trencavel was taken by treach''

[|

==Story Seed: St. John’s Eve==

''Near Castle Puivert lies a tranquil lake. On the shore is a rock shaped like a throne, where the chatelaines of the castle were often serenaded by troubadour visitors. On Midsummer’s night, if an original composition is sung in praise of a lady’s beauty while she sits upon the throne, the lock of her hair she grants the troubadour contains four pawns of Rego vis. However the local faerie lady of the lake is known to become jealous''
''of such attentions, and sometimes floods the site, the waves stealing away the lady, her handmaidens, and the troubadour to an underwater regio where they are all forced to serve the faerie of the lake. When Lambert de Thury and his men return home one midsummer from a late hunt, they find the castle strangely empty, with no sign of his wife and staff. Can the characters solve the mystery, and get Lady de Thury back?''

|]
''ery, leaving the city leaderless. The failure of the springs, cisterns, and castle well remains a mystery. They certainly dried up, and while the besiegers may hold this to be a miracle, the locals entertain darker suspicions of magic having been employed against them. Almost all the population were expelled following the fall of the city, but most families soon returned and the city that served as the crusaders’ base of operations has prospered, while resentment at the northern usurpers remains high. With so many knights quartered here resistance, however, would be futile.''
''The Cathedral of St. Nazaire''
''The cathedral holds the tomb of the city’s conqueror, Simon de Montfort. It is in the Romanesque style, though some of the crusaders are considering renovating it as a Gothic church. The cathedral is beset with the problems facing the diocese — the northern lords prefer clergy who have come with them on the crusade over the local churchmen, resulting in many clergy losing their positions and siding with the Trencavel claimant. The bishop, Gui de Vaux-de-Cernay, was appointed in 1212 to replace Bishop Bernard Raimond de Roquefort, who was dismissed for his sympathy with the Cathars (who included his mother and brother), but Bernard still claims the diocese and contests the legality of Gui’s appointment.''
''Auriac''
''This is the site of ancient, long abandoned gold mines. Stories of strange creatures lurking in the ancient tunnels frighten locals. Nuggets of gold can still be found in the ancient shafts, but the supernatural horrors that must be defeated to recover them may outweigh the value of the Terram vis that can be recovered. Within the mines a Faerie aura of 4 is home to follets, stonethrowing fae who delight in collapsing tunnels upon intruders. Looking like the goblins of the north, they live in a feudal society under two rival counts, one in each of the mines, and fight a grim war with each other.''
''Bram''
''A small walled town that held out for three days against de Montfort’s forces. The priest of nearby Montreal, who had, after that village’s capture, betrayed the crusaders, was brought here and defrocked by the Bishop of Carcassonne, Gui de Vauxde-Cernay. The priest was then mutilated, dragged behind a horse through the streets, and hanged by the crusaders for his treachery. The defenders of Bram, one hundred in number, fared little better. Their eyes were gouged out, their ears, noses, and lips were cut off, and then they were freed. One man was allowed to retain an eye to lead the macabre procession of the horribly disfigured to Cabaret as a warning to others who might resist the crusaders. It is still possible to meet some of the horribly disfigured survivors, and some serve as grogs at Ostal des Exiles. The atrocity has led to a level 3 Infernal aura that still endures in the marketplace, where violence and acts of vengeance are now commonplace.''
''Lastours''
''Known for its firm support of the Cathar heresy, and the wealth of the iron mines nearby, Lastours is most famed for the three great stone towers (small castles) that guard the area. They are perched a few miles apart on a precipitous ridge above the Gresillon valley. Quertinheux stands on a rock lower in the valley, Fleur Epine on the highest point of the rocky slopes, and Cabaret castle on an outcrop, surrounded on three sides by steep cliffs and the River Orbiel. All are believed to be impregnable, and the crusaders were forced to retreat in winter 1210 when Bouchard de Marly, a kinsman of de Mont''
''fort, was taken prisoner and spent sixteen months chained in the dungeons. In 1211 Pierre-Roger de Cabaret was forced to surrender the castles, and de Marly freed, but de Cabaret, a well known supporter of the Cathars, and an exceptionally generous host to troubadours, was not captured. He continues to seek restoration of his lands and the fortifications, and may achieve this now the crusade has faltered. At Fleur Epine, Jourdain de Cabaret, Lord of Pennautier and Pierre-Roger’s brother, held court. His wife, Auda, was a famous beauty, and her daughters may well have inherited their mother’s looks and cruelty to the hapless lovers who became entranced by her. Known as Na Loba, the She-Wolf, she may have suffered from the Curse of Venus, or Venus’ Blessing, or some darker secret. The famous troubadour Pierre Vidal dressed in a wolf-skin and crept up to the castle to sing to the She-Wolf — sadly his romantic gesture went wrong when he was savaged by a peasant’s mastiff who mistook him for an actual wolf. The now elderly Auda and her bewitching daughters are in exile, waiting for the de Cabaret family to be restored to their lands. The lords of Lastours were firm supporters of the Trencavel, but Na Loba was blamed for the betrayal in 1209 of RaimondRogier Trencavel, Viscount of Carcassonne, that led to his imprisonment and death. She reputedly tried to seduce him but his attention was focused on her eldest daughter. She arranged his safe passage to the negotiations with de Montfort, but then withdrew her guards and allowed her liege lord to be captured for his rejection of her advances. He died in a dungeon, reportedly poisoned by de Montfort’s men, one of the many victims of Na Loba’s jealousy. The castle at Cabaret is one of the three strongest fortifications of the region.''

[|

==Story Seed: An Unrepentant Bishop?==

''On the feast of Saint Nazarius (June 12th) a great service is held in the cathedral. Before the sacrament is administered, a suddenly troubled Bishop Gui calls out to the congregation that he is a usurper, and demands that Bishop Raimond be brought to officiate, handing him his mitre and vestments. Imme''
''diately after the Mass, Gui is bundled away by the crusaders and taken to the castle. At sunset he announces that he was bewitched and accuses Bishop Raimond of sorcery. Raimond flees and his friends call upon the characters to investigate and save him. Can they establish the truth?''

|]
''Montlaur''
''The villagers here bravely besieged the garrison left by de Montfort in the castle. He returned, and hanged all he could capture. Their ghosts can still be seen in the woods, a terrifying sight. The village was burned to the ground, and the sight of the atrocity now has an Infernal aura of 4.''
''Hautpoul''
''A powerful Visigothic fortress built upon a seemingly impregnable rocky crag, the castle fell to de Montfort in 1212 after four days of siege. Many of the defenders escaped in a dense fog which suddenly sprang up during the assault. The castle was destroyed, the settlement burnt, and the place is now an eerie ruin haunted by bats, with a ramshackle collection of wooden huts nearby housing the few survivors. An Infernal aura of strength 3 still settles upon the place, and eerie fogs blanket it.''
''Saissac''
''This castle was once a Cathar stronghold famous for the generosity it offered troubadours, but it was taken after the fall of Carcassonne and was granted to de Montfort’s loyal friend Bouchard de Marly. He still holds''
''the castle, resisting the claims of the dispossessed heirs. It is very likely that the heirs of Saissac will seek assistance in reclaiming their birthright, and they are certainly open to new ideas and may even welcome a new Hermetic covenant based within the citadel.''
''Puisserguier''
''When a prominent northern knight slew a local lord who had joined the crusade in a quarrel, de Montfort decided that justice must prevail, and by the customary punishment of the south had the murderer buried alive, despite the protests of his fellow crusaders. It was not enough. Unsatisfied, the murdered southerner’s nephew changed sides, and burned the castle of Puisserguier he had been entrusted with, having the garrison of fifty northern soldiers thrown in the dry moat then buried alive under rocks. The two knights were taken to Minerve, where they were blinded, their noses, lips and ears were cut off, and they were then turned out, one falling into a latrine and drowning, one reaching Carcassonne.''
''Castelnaudry''
''Castelnaudry is a weak castle, and for this reason de Montfort went here in 1211, trying to draw Count Raymond''
''and Raimond-Rogier, count of Foix, into an open battle. The plan worked and at St. Martin-Lalande nearby the reinforcements marching to the relief of de Montfort under Bouchard Marly were routed by the Foix-Toulousain army, in a mighty clash of knights. De Montfort sallied out of Castelnaudry with only fifty knights, rallied the disarrayed crusaders, and led them back to the battlefield where the southerners were looting the baggage train. Falling upon them ferociously, the crusaders turned defeat into victory, driving the Counts’ men from the field, and inflicting huge losses on the southerners. After the battle Savary de Mauleon, seneschal of Poitou and leader of a troupe of mercenary crossbowmen who had been hired by Raimond, kidnapped Raimond’s son as he was still owed money for his services. The money was paid and the boy returned. The battle was a disaster for the southerners, but did provoke a widespread revolt against the crusaders after Raymond claimed de Montfort had been killed in the fighting. De Montfort lived however, and suppressed the revolt with much brutality.''
''Fanjeaux''
''Fanjeaux is a hilltop town with a small castle, and was the center of Dominic’s campaign of preaching against the Cathars while he lived here from 1206 to 1215. Dominic founded the nunnery of St. Marie in the village Prouille just below the town as a refuge for women converted from Catharism and young women seeking a Church vocation. Dominic’s personal sanctity was respected even by the Cathars, all the more so after he drove off a demon here that appeared as an immense cat with flaming eyes and a long, prehensile tongue. Whether this corrupted beast (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 77) will ever return is unknown, but it may still lurk in the region. When the crusaders came here in 1209 the inhabitants fled, and now no one dares shelter Cathars within the town, once a stronghold of the heresy. Indeed Cathars approaching the town are met with violence and threats, and swiftly denounced to the Church and crusaders. Yet''

[|

==Story Seed: The Daughters of Na Loba==

''While they await the return of Cabaret, Na Loba’s three daughters still have a strong claim to the three castles of Lastours. Having effectively been freed of their Trencavel overlords, the daughters do not wait passively for husbands and suitors, but instead use their dark charms and seductive allure to attempt to entrap good husbands. Only the stupidest of''
''peasants believes the whispered stories that they are really werewolves. Anyone voicing the story soon vanishes, victim of the undoubted vindictiveness of the three heiresses and of Na Loba, who is still a formidable politician and mistress of intrigue. They are currently traveling around the country, seeking powerful allies to reclaim their birthright.''

==Story Seed: The Scrabbling Dead==

''It is said the garrison soldiers buried alive at Puisserguier still try to claw their way to the surface, and at night their corpses can be heard scratching at the loose earth and rock that holds them down. If they''
''were to emerge they would undoubtedly seek vengeance upon the living. Soon they will emerge, unless a way is found to bury them deeper, or to put their spirits at peace. The moat has a strength 4 Infernal aura.''

|]
''strangely many Perfecti do return to Fanjeaux, risking arrest and execution: what are they seeking to recover?''
''Alairac''
''This was originally a powerful Visigothic fortress, but de Montfont took the mountaintop castle here in the teeth of a howling gale. No mercy was offered to the defenders. Today its shattered ruins are home only to bandits, and the eerie sound of the almost constant gale that whistles through its shattered towers. The captured defenders were hurled off the battlements and over the precipice to their death on the rocks thousands of feet below, where their ghosts seek burial for their shattered bones. An Infernal aura of strength 4 covers the bat-haunted ruins.''
''Castle d’Aguilar''
''A castle stands here upon a great dome of rock, with six huge strong towers. De Montfort and his crusaders chose to pass it by, and the magnificent fortress continues to dominate the area,  sheltering faidits and heretics. Here, deep in the caverns under the rocky hill, hide a small covenant of the dispossessed magi from covenants destroyed in the fighting. This is the House of the Exiles, the newest of the Provençal covenants.''

==Ostal des Exiles==

''Where do you go when your covenant is destroyed, your lab burnt down, your library in ashes? The Ostal des Exiles is one answer. Just as faidits make up a significant group in the politics of the region, so with the fall of great Hermetic covenants, it is unsurprising that some magi have found themselves similar dispossessed and become known as Hermetic faidits. Older, established magi have left for other Tribunals, yet for many younger magi this is unacceptable. The Ostal des Exiles has come to exist as a new covenant, created since the Tribunal of 1214, whose members were shocked by the wanton destruction wrought upon Mistridge, Windgraven, and Lariander. Potentially an important new force in the Tribunal, dedicated to the defense of their homeland and Occitanian civilization, the''
''Ostal may welcome new Spring covenants as allies, and do all they can to recruit new members to their bold defense of the county of Toulouse from the northerners. Not just outcasts, but potentially outlaws, the faidits are willing to interfere with mundanes if that is what is required to stop the destruction of the south, even at the cost of being Marched. There are currently seven members of the covenant; four of the more influential are detailed here. Whether the Ostal des Exiles would really go as far as to interfere with the Crusade remains to be seen, but one thing is certain. Should they do so in defense of their homeland, their chosen method will be subtle, designed not to bring “ruin upon their sodales.” They have already experienced that.''

==History==

''Aguilar had its origins in a Roman fortress, later strengthened by the Visigoths, and the grotto underneath was well known to the Order of Hermes as the site of a mithraeum and vis source. One of the great fortresses of the region, and long home to a substantial Cathar population, Aguilar has more recently become a place of shelter for large number of dispossessed minor nobles and knights. In the summer of 1211 a column of crusaders, mainly from the Rhineland, were''
''marching to join the siege of Lavaur when they were ambushed by peasants and some southern knights in the woods near Montgey and massacred. The few survivors told stories of seeing white ladies, the faerie demesoilles, using strange enchantments to devastate the column, and of the very trees attacking them. In fact all of this is true; Garsenda of Lariander, a self-styled outlaw, had helped inspire the villagers to rise up and attack the column in the hope of saving Lavaur. She was to come to regret this; de Montfort’s crusaders marched south, destroyed the village, and in the course of the assault burned the woodlands and slaughtered the confused magi of House Tremere, mistaking their black robes for Cathar perfecti. As far as she knows, Garsenda is the only survivor. The destruction of Mistridge in a Wizard’s War by Tres Ex Miscellanea added to the exiles, and it was Rixenda who first took shelter here at Aguilar. It was the charismatic Gilbert of Flambeau who united the Hermetic faidits however, and gave them a cause — resistance to the northerners, at any cost.''

==Setting and Description==

''Castle d’Aguilar was a Trencavel possession, taken by de Montfort in 1210. The de Termes family retreated to Termes, but the castle was retaken in 1213 and became a center of resistance to the crusade, with many faidits taking shelter within its walls and in the surrounding villages. The grottoes, a natural cave system that riddles the rocky mount on which the castle stands, are extensive and little known, but have a Magic aura of 3. Deep within the caves can be found a mithraeum (Magic aura 5), long used by members of House Flambeau pursuing mithraic mysteries. The Flambeau may soon discover the nascent covenant forming here, and be forced to decide how to react to the newcomers, though the mithraeum itself has been left untouched by the Hermetic faidits. It does, however, lie within the Aegis of the Hearth of the new covenant.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''The Hermetic faidits do not formally owe allegiance to the Lords of Termes, but their presence here is both known and tolerated. As a new covenant, as yet unrecognized by the Tribunal, the exiles act as a clearing house for any magi willing to work to fight the Crusade, and they are particularly keen to welcome any new members. The number of magi here fluctuates from the four magi who have established sanctums here, to sometimes eight or nine magi. If your saga includes the Knights of the Green Stone, an esoteric Mystery Cult detailed in The Mysteries Revised Edition, then the Ostal des Exiles is an important center for the cult.''

==Magi==

''Gilbert of Flambeau''
''Age 95 (Apparent age 40) Personality Traits: Aloof +3, Vengeful +2, Genteel +1''
''Born near Marseilles, Gilbert is unusual in that, while embracing the Apromor (Perdo) tradition of his House passionately, he is both Gently Gifted and of noble birth. Apprenticed late in life, he Gauntleted as a Jerbiton, having served his apprenticeship in the Coenobium. Gilbert spent years wandering the Tribunal, uninterested in the politics of the Order. His decision to renounce his House and enter House Flambeau has earned him the undying enmity of the Coenobium. He may well be a mystagogue in the Cult of the Green Stone if they exist in your saga, with a few scattered allies in that cult. He is a man of deep culture and well versed in etiquette, and while his guise as a knight and romantic troubadour are known throughout the region, few of the noble ladies who offer him patronage (and other favors) are aware of his magical abilities. An outcast in the Order before the Crusade, he found new purpose in defending the Order that had shown so little affection for him when the crusaders destroyed Lariander, and began to affect the Tribunal. After Tres destroyed Mistridge in a Wizard’s''
''War, it was clear to him that the Tribunal was falling apart under the impact of the Crusade. Now courtly love has been replaced in his affections with a love of battle, and he has found that in his years of solitude he gained the inner strength to be a leader. He has sworn to protect the Order from its enemies, and slay those who would try to prevent him. A charismatic, unstable individual, he has proudly boasted that even if the Grand Tribunal were to condemn him, he would be willing to fight a Second Schism War in defense of his homeland and the magi therein. Few want to risk discovering whether this is just hyperbole.''
''Rixenda Mistridge of Jerbiton''
''Age 40 (Apparent age 38) Personality Traits: Forgiving +2, Optimistic +2''
''As Gilbert embodies the righteous anger of the wronged, Rixenda embodies the hope of rebirth, and reconstruction. After the destruction of Mistridge by Tres she was the first to settle in the ancient fortress at Aguilar, and she welcomed Gilbert and the others when they arrived as fellow exiles. A Mentem maga with a strong interest in dreams and nightmares, Rixenda wants acceptance from the Tribunal, and has no interest in vengeance. She believes that the future of the Order may lie in hiding from the mundane world, and her calming influence and good sense make her a strong rival to Gilbert’s leadership. She has a deep sympathy for the Cathars, but is not personally a Cathar. She corresponds with a group of learned Perfecta, but fails to understand why they accept such a misogynistic world-denying faith. Still, she has tried to bring the best female scholars under her subtle protection by using what influence she has in their favor. She was shocked when Marc the Gorgiastic Cathar declared Wizard’s War on Augustus, and is deeply saddened by the events at Tolosa Paratge, being one of the few magi to have paid attention to the rapid disintegration of one of the Tribunal’s oldest covenants. She does, however, understand; like most of the faidits, she has not forgiven Tres, and so she has entered into an alliance with Gilbert fully aware that she lives in dangerous times.''
''Garsenda of Lariander, House Tremere''
''Age 35 (Apparent age 35) Personality Traits: Troubled +2, Brash +2, Vengeful +1''
''Only a few years out of gauntlet when Lariander was destroyed, Garsenda fled into the forest, and somehow survived. Garsenda is a Seeker, dedicated to uncovering the magical secrets of antiquity, but in particular those of ancient Faerie powers that were worshipped as Gods. She may also be a member of the Cult of the Green Stone, and it was through an esoteric Mystery cult that she met Gilbert. She is currently interested in stories of the Drac, fabled draconic creatures that are said to haunt the rivers of the region, and is troubled by strange dreams. Religiously, Garsenda has much sympathy for the Cathars, but only because questioning authority is something that comes naturally to her. She is personally not religious in any way. Garsenda dresses as an outlaw, eschewing the chivalric trappings favored by most of her cult. A specialist in Imaginem, she has a strong relationship with several local demesoilles and shares their passion for protecting the rights of the poor and''
''oppressed. She is currently suffering from a terrible guilt at her actions that brought about the ruin of her covenant, Lariander, and is frightened the Order may learn that she brought ruin upon her sodales. This makes her nervous and irritable around new magi she meets.''
''Popilia Ex Miscellanea (Pharmacopoeian)''
''Age 60 (Apparent age 51) Personality Traits: Angry +3, Proud +2, Protective +1''
''Popilia came to the Order late in life, after her village exiled her. A former midwife, she had a second trade as a herbalist. Her midwifery led her to a dispute with a Perfectus named Sicart of Lavaur. Condemning bringing a child into the world as the greatest of sins, and denouncing sex, procreation and child rearing in the strongest of terms, he personally attacked Popilia, who flew at him with a knife. Expelled from her village for the assault, she broods over the incident still, and has developed a passionate hatred for the Cathars, while retaining an equally passionate determination to resist the northerners. However, the Crusade has''
''only hardened her hatred of the heretics, whom she believes brought this horror upon the south. She has three children, two of whom are now adults, and the youngest of whom, Jacquemart, is only 15. Her loathing of the Cathars extends to the Gorgiastic Cathars of House Ex Miscellanea. The Pharmacopoeian tradition is described in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 123.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk of the Ostal des Exiles are largely seasoned fighters. Unlike many covenants, the proportion of women and children is low, and if the covenant is to survive, this gender imbalance must be addressed. While many refugees have fled to the shelter of the castle, a large number of the womenfolk are celibate Cathars. This has led to an unusually masculine feel to the grogs, few of whom reside within the dark caverns, preferring to live in the surrounding villages. The turb trains for combat constantly, and is supported by the companions, mainly faidits; minor lords and knights, and serjeants, well mounted, armed, and armored, and willing to risk all in defense of their homeland.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
