
=History & Culture=

''The weight of centuries of scholarship, culture, and romance lies heavy upon the Tribunal. From the ghosts of Roman glory to the strange magics of the Dark Ages, the echoes of a glorious past reach out to the turmoil of the present.''

==The Roman Provinces==

''The Provençal Tribunal comprises an area that Celtic tribes inhabited in antiquity. In what is now Gascony they were the Aquitanians, a Basque people. Greek traders, the Massalians, founded the cities of Marseilles and Trinquetaille as ports and traded upriver with the Celtic tribes of the eastern region, Arelat. The coming of the Romans in 125 BC saw the division of the region that they called the Provincia in to two provinces. Novempopulania (“the Nine Peoples”) looked to the Atlantic in the west, and Narbonensis formed the eastern district, looking south to the Mediterranean. Both regions were culturally and economically vibrant for the five centuries of Roman rule. Only one major revolt marred the peace and abundance of Narbonensis. Tolosa (Toulouse) was the ancient capital of the Volques tribe of Celts. The Tolosates worshiped by sacrificing treasures sunk within the sacred lake on whose shores the city was built. In 106 BC, the Roman governor drained the lake to steal the golden treasures. The Tolosates were outraged, and a major uprising followed, assisted by the invasion of a Germanic migratory people: the Cimbri. The Romans suffered a series of defeats, and the treasures of the lake were lost after the Romans were defeated in battle at Arausio on the Rhone in 105 BC. The Romans returned in force and pacified the''
''region, but they never found the treasure. In 419 AD the Romans fell back from the area in defense of Rome against the barbarian incursions, and the Visigoths swept down in to the region and established it as part of their kingdom. Arles held out for decades, the city only surrendering in 472, when it was overrun by the Visigoths. Even today. Roman remains litter the landscape, mingled with monuments built by faeries and giants.''

==The Coming of Christianity==

''The first followers of Christ brought the faith to the region. Mary Magdalene and the Virgin Mary landed at Saintes Marie-de-la-Mer in the years following the crucifixion, and many churches hold relics relating to them. Lazarus, who had been raised from the dead by Christ, accompanied the Holy Virgin and became the first Bishop of Marseilles. The area remained mainly loyal to the''
''Roman religion however until the great Bishop Sernin of Toulouse (Saint Saturnin) suffered martyrdom at the hands of the Roman priests, being dragged to death by a bull around the streets of the city in 257. After his inspirational death the power of the Cult of Mercury was broken in the city, and Toulouse converted to the new religion, becoming a flourishing center of Christianity.''

==The Gothic Kingdom of Septimania==

''As the Roman Empire declined, the Visigoths settled the region. Arian heretics, the Visigoths served as Imperial foederati: barbarian troops stationed in defense of the empire. In return for military service, they were granted rights to settle in Narbonensis in 462. In 475 they relinquished their rights to Narbonensis east of the Rhone in exchange for recognition of their full independence. The Visigothic Kingdom was named Septimania, in honor of its seven cities. Toulouse became its capital and the''

[|

==Story Seed: Golden Treasures==

''Rumors of golden treasures are common throughout the Tribunal. As well as the lost treasure of the lake of Toulouse, another treasure brought to the city and then lost to history was the riches seized in the Sack of Rome in 410. This included the legendary wealth and holy items taken from the Temple in the Siege of Jerusalem by the Romans in 70. Some of the holiest artifacts in the world may still lie hidden somewhere in the dusty lands around the city. There are also stories''
''of the aurum Tolosanum containing treasures from the sack of Delphi in 279 BC. Whatever the truth, all the legends agree that gold is still hidden somewhere in the region, and protected by a deadly curse. When an ancient Visigothic tomb is moved during church renovations, a mysterious scroll is brought to the magi. It seems to contain encoded directions to a great treasure. Dare they investigate this ancient secret, and why is someone trying to stop them?''

|]
''whole region continued to bask in prosperity even as the Roman Empire collapsed. In 507, at the Battle of Vouillé, the Franks, under the great King Clovis, defeated the Visigoths, starting the decline of Septimania as border areas fell to the new invaders. The Ostrogoths from Italy now intervened, halting the Frankish advance, and Visigothic kings continued to hold portions of Septimania (the region now called the Narbonne) until the 720s, even as the center of Gothic power passed to Barcelona. The Visigoths converted to mainstream Christianity by the middle of the sixth century. However the influence of the old Roman religion and the remnants of the Cult of Mercury remained strong. Church councils condemned the persistence of local paganism, focusing on the custom of not working on Thursdays in honor of Jupiter. It was these pagan remnants and the last Roman priests (flamen) whose secrets Priamitus and Apromor were to seek, and whose legacy forms the basis of the Hermetic Cult of Mercury at Aedes Mercurii (see Chapter 6: Pyrenees, Aedes Mercurii) today.''

==The Frankish Conquest==

''By the middle of the sixth century, the Franks, a northern people, had largely defeated the Visigoths. Only in Narbonnais did the Visigothic Kingdom of Septimania survive. The Merovingian Frankish dynasty suffered from endless usurpation and royal murders, and a dark age of anarchy, pestilence, and famine descended upon the region. In Arelat, many of the former Roman cities fell to ruin and were abandoned, with only Marseilles prospering; and as drainage works fell into disrepair marshes took back land long cultivated. Local rebellions were common, and the local lords of Toulouse became increasingly independent, one eventually declaring himself Duke and becoming effectively independent of the Frankish throne. In 719 the Moors attacked Septimania and took the capital Narbonne before proceeding north to Toulouse. The Franks sent no assistance, and yet in 721 Duke Odo, ruler of Gascony and Toulouse, defeated the Moors’ advance. This bought time for Charles Martel and the Franks to prepare,''
''setting the scene for the great victory at Tours (732) and ending the Moors’ advance into Europe. The Franks conquered Septimania in 759, and the Pyrenees region of the Tribunal by the close of the eighth century. Frankish power now embraced the whole region, yet the Frankish dukes in the region craved autonomy. They rebelled frequently, and suffered devastating raids, pillaging, and burning of towns and crops from their northern overlords in response.''

==The Early Order of Hermes==

''With the foundation of the Order of Hermes, magi traveled to Durenmar for the First Tribunal meeting. As the population of the order grew, regional Tribunals were established in 773. These regions had no definite borders, but were instead composed of covenants located in more or less the same parts of the world. Much of the Hermetic activity in the Val-Negra Tribunal at this time focused on the Founder Flambeau’s war against the Moors in Iberia. He was the only Founder to live at Val-Negra, though Trianoma and Mercere would often visit. Other legends of Hermes who lived and practiced magic in the region included:''
''Apromor of Flambeau. Flambeau’s first apprentice, he grew apart from his master and became the first Primus of the House in 820. He encouraged non-Hermetic wizards to join the Order, accepting pagans and worked with Priamatus to recreate the Cult of Mercury. Kaeso, follower of Flambeau, founder of Castra Solis and member of the Legion of Mithras. Many consider him the first Hoplite. He died honorably in battle. Elaine of Flambeau. Flambeau’s second apprentice. She served as a Hoplite under Kaeso and also belonged to the Legion of Mithras, and wrote many excellent books. Priamitus of Mercere. Mercere’s first apprentice, founder of the Cult of Mercury. He and his followers established a temple to Mercury near Val-Negra, and with Apromor’s blessing restored much''
''of the lost knowledge of the Order of Mercury. Maugris of Diedne, one of Diedne’s original followers. A solitary magus raised by faeries, he was cousin to Renaud de Montebaun, a paladin of Charlemagne’s court, for whom he tamed the magical horse Bayard. Gelon of Verditius. Verditius’ first apprentice. He became Primus of the House in 801, though he lived at Val-Negra for decades. He was known for his many enchanted swords, and his followers established the Confraternity of Roland.''

==The Covenant of Val-Negra==

''Val-Negra, home to the Founder Flambeau, dominated the region politically. It was the largest covenant and included magi from many different Houses. The majority of the other covenants in the region belonged to House Diedne. Located deep in the Pyrenees, Val-Negra was an ideal location for Flambeau to train and quarter his wizardly army. Apromor expanded the covenant, establishing other Hermetic outposts at sites throughout the Pyrenees.''

==Raiders!==

''In the middle of the ninth century, Vikings established camps all along the western shores of France. Outmatched and outsmarted, and even outmaneuvered, the Franks suffered when the Vikings negotiated an alliance with King Pepin II of Aquitaine, who was seeking independence from the Frankish King Charles the Bald. In 844 Pepin was accused of apostasy after he allied with a Viking adventurer named Jarl Oscar and allowed him to raid up the Garonne as far as Toulouse. Initially, the magi of the Tribunal avoided the struggle, until tales of strange rune magicians forced them to act against the Norse wizards. The Vikings were not the only threat, for Marseilles was looted and burned by Arab pirates in 838, by Byzantine freebooters in 849, and later by a rapacious''
''group of Normans who began raids from a base deep in the Camargue. There were many Diedne covenants in Gascony, but in the struggle against the Norse rune wizards much resentment developed in House Flambeau at what was perceived as the passive role House Diedne had taken in the defense of the Tribunal.''
''Fraxinetum and the Founding of the Coenobium (889–975)''
''Two rogue Tytalan magi, who specialized in war magic and led a band of raiding Andalusian Moors, caused the most''
''bitter and defining struggle in the east of the Tribunal by leading attacks across the Arelat region. Their covenant, Fraxinetum, lay in the bleak basalt Massifs de Maures near the south coast and they provoked a series of disputes regarding the Peripheral Code and interference with mundanes. Fraxinetum was destroyed in 975 by a Wizard’s War declared by the newly formed covenant of Coenobium Rhodanien. This alliance of Arelat covenants banded together to resist the incursions and remains a potent force in the region to this day. (See Chapter 8: Arelat, The Coenobium Rhodanien)''

==The Shaping of the Tribunal==

''In 865 the Grand Tribunal defined seven regional Tribunals. Val-Negra officially became part of the Iberian Tribunal, which also included the Pyrenees and the northern Basque country. Most of France became part of the West Franks Tribunal, except for the small strip of land from Friesland down through Burgundy and Arelat called the Lotharingian Tribunal. Over time the borders of the Tribunal shifted again, with Normandy and the Rhineland subsuming the northern half of Lotharingia as covenants located there began attending one or the other Tribunal instead. This left the remnant, now known as the Provençal Tribunal, as a Mercer House covenant at Arles, a powerful autumn Diedne covenant at Lyon, and a few other covenants nestled in the Rhone valley and along the Mediterranean coast.''

==The Schism War==

''Once the Schism War began, much fighting took place in Gascony as Diedne covenants fell to massed attacks from Val Negra. There was a great deal of activity among covenants in the Pyrenees whose magi attended the Iberian Tribunal. Val-Negra fell in the conflict, with survivors joining Aedes Mercurii and declaring themselves a Provençal covenant; many other covenants chose to join Provence at this time, partly to resist Tytalan expansion south into the region to claim the spoils of the fallen Diedne covenants. (See The Lion & The Lily, 16) The terrible cost of the battles against Diedne covenants scarred the region and many once great covenants perished, their ruins littering the landscape, often all but forgotten today. The great tension between House Flambeau and House Tytalus forced a redrawing of the Tribunal maps, and resulted in the Normandy, Iberian and Provençal Tribunals as we know them today.''
''Askelarre (945–1011): A covenant founded by a coven of Hermetic sorginak or Basque witches spread throughout the Basque country and destroyed in the Schism War.''

[|

==Charlemagne==

''The Frankish Carolingian dynasty faced constant rebellion from the southern lords, and King Charlemagne crushed the resistance in 770 en route to Spain. On his return from campaigning against the Moors in 778, the great tragedy of the Pass of Roncevaux occurred.''
''Moors ambushed and slaughtered Charlemagne’s rear guard in the mountain passes, and this still forms the basis of many of the great romances told by the troubadours. The death of Roland, Bishop Turpin, and the others is a tragic tale every child knows.''

|]
''Barbegal (895–930): A watermill complex dominated by a trio of mage-smiths, this Verditius covenant just north of Arles was abandoned in the early tenth century due to Saracen raiding of the undefended site. The surviving magi helped establish the Rhone based covenant of Coenobium Rhodanien. Bentalone (1106–1207): A summer covenant destroyed during the crusade by the armies of Simon de Montfort when the castle they inhabited was mistaken for a Cathar stronghold and overrun in a surprise attack. Berinor (1089–1210): A small Jerbiton covenant in the County of Toulouse that served as patron to many troubadours and troubairitz, and fell in 1210 after de Montfort’s men dispossessed the lord who held the castle for the covenant. The survivors joined the Toulouse covenant. The Birds of Camargue (901–970): A Bjornaer covenant in the swamp at the mouth of the Rhone. The magi merged with the greater grouping of Coenobium Rhodanien in response to the threat of Fraxinetum. Campus Elysii (843–1009): A small group of spirit masters dwelling in the Alyscamps driven out by the expansion of the Coenobium. Although the group retreated to the Verdun Gorge, attempting to refound their home under the new name of Portus Termini, the settlement failed before the next Tribunal and was never officially registered as a Provençal covenant. Donjon Leyre (955–1008): An early vassal of Montverte, at the fork of the Leyre river in the Landes, it was originally established as a forward base for raiding into the Basque-held Pyrenees. Its founding magi all perished fighting in the Schism War. Filii Sinapis (1063–1215): A covenant established by Flambeau of the abandoned Normandy Liege of Sinapis (see Lion and the Lily, page 28), the site was abandoned in the wake of the crusade. Fraxinetum (889–975): Founded by a band of Andalusian raiders and two aggressive Tytalus magi, this settlement provoked a series of disputes regarding the Peripheral Code and interference with mundanes. It was destroyed soon after''
''the defeat of the Saracens in 973 in a Wizard’s War declared by the newly formed covenant of Coenobium Rhodanien. (See Chapter 8: Arelat, The Legacy of Fraxinetum) Lapurdum (822–858): Founded around a mithraeum at the site of an old Roman camp at the mouth of the Adour in Gascony, this Flambeau covenant was abandoned under repeated pressure from Viking raids and internal dissension in the mid ninth century. Its ruins lie somewhere within the contemporary city of Bayonne. Lariander (1192–1211): A Tremere Spring covenant in a faerie forest at Montgey, Toulouse, destroyed during the crusade. The magi were mistaken for a community of Cathars after a party of German crusaders was murdered by rebels while in the vicinity of the covenant. Mistridge (1050–1209): This covenant occupied a magical tower situated in the Val du Bosque. A Wizard’s War led by the magus Tres with his magical siege engines destroyed it, spurring a major Tribunal case. (See later) Portus Cottiae (821–906): The original Mercer House and a Mercurian covenant controlling the old Roman pass from the Piedmont into Gaul, this multi-site settlement in the tradition of the Greater Alps was abandoned after repeated attacks by Berber mercenaries in the late ninth century. Val-Negra (774–1012): Former residence of Flambeau the Founder and domus magna of his House, it is believed to have been destroyed in the last days of the Schism War. There is considerable mystery as to the reason for its abandonment, and even its exact location is now forgotten. (See Chapter 9: Val-Negra) Windgraven (1060–1197): A covenant''
''famed for its cruelty and the necromantic prowess of its magi, it was destroyed by Mistridge after declining far into Winter. Few mourned the passing of its reclusive magi, who were widely suspected of diabolism, though this action may have inspired Tres’ destruction of Mistridge shortly thereafter. Yf (821–911): A Diedne covenant off the coast of Arelat, this site fell long before the Schism War to the depredations of Fraxinetum. One of its members joined the efforts of Coenobium Rhodanien in revenge but her line faded away just before the Schism War.''

==The Fall of Val-Negra==

''Little is known today of the fate of ValNegra, once the most powerful covenant of the Tribunal. The destruction of the covenant in the Schism War is known, but the reason it never rose again is not. Given the glorious place the covenant holds in the history of the Order, the evacuation of the covenant and its replacement as domus magna of House Flambeau by Castra Solis might be expected to be better chronicled, but it is not. Curiously, even the exact location of the covenant somewhere in the far south of the Tribunal appears to be lost. The reasons for this are discussed in Chapter 9: Val-Negra.''

==The Counts of Toulouse==

''From the ninth century the counts of Toulouse were once again effectively independent of the distant Frankish''

[|

==Fallen Covenants of the Tribunal==

''The troubled history of the Tribunal has left many abandoned sites and Hermetic ruins which may hold forgotten magical resources or provide sites for future covenants. As well as those listed here, nine or more other former Diedne covenant sites exist, stricken from the records in the aftermath of the Schism''
''War by the Quaesitores. Members of the Order are forbidden to seek them out, but now few magi know where they are not supposed to look. There are several other non-Diedne covenants that fell in the Schism War and have been lost to history, though their names can be found in old books and Tribunal records.''

|]
''throne. Their fortunes waxed and waned but reached their zenith with the rule of Raimond IV, count of St. Gilles and marquisate of Arelat (1093-1105). This period saw the flowering of Occitanian literature and the troubadour culture for which the region was to become famous. The counts of Toulouse constantly warred and conspired against their great political rivals: the counts of Foix in the Pyrenees, and the Trencavel of Carcassonne and Béziers. They often clashed with the bishops of Toulouse, who share judicial powers in the city, and sometimes ineffectively with the rising power of the capitouls (See Chapter 4: Toulouse). Generally the counts sought popular support and generously granted privileges and exemptions from feudal dues. As a result, the county of Toulouse has hundreds of knights (and some ladies) holding their own castles on rocky outcrops and fighting interminable wars with their neighbors, while sometimes becoming involved in the larger struggles between the Trencavel, Foix, the king of Aragon, and counts of Toulouse.''
''Troubadours''
''Troubadours originated in Aquitaine and Gascony before spreading their tradition into Provence and later both Italy and Iberia. Early troubadours came from the nobility, but over time, troubadours sprang from every walk of life. Troubadours write cansos, love songs, and sirventes, political songs, as well as courtly love poetry. Cansos revolve around themes of courtly love, where a noble knight expresses his devotion to another lord’s wife, and yearns for her attention. She rejects his advances at first, but later grants him her favor, all according to the well understood rules of fin amors. Whether the romance was consummated carnally or not depended upon the individuals concerned, and certainly the ideal pursued a chaste, almost spiritual love, not a mere series of adulterous liaisons. (See Lords of Men, page 61). Troubadours travel across the countryside, not as wandering entertainers, but seeking the patronage of a lord and residing for a while as a part of a court retinue when successful. Troubadours are rarer in Toulouse and Gascony since the Albigen''
''sian Crusade began; crusaders often consider the itinerant artists likely spies or Cathar sympathizers. The troubadour tradition often encounters opposition from the Church, from irate husbands, and from those who believe it leads to moral decline. In the Provençal Tribunal, it has a vast weight of tradition and custom on its side, although the recent crusade has damaged this. Many of the roaming troubadours who spread stories and news and once enjoyed the hospitality of southern nobles have been killed in the fighting, or seen the great ladies who patronized them forced into exile or killed by the crusaders. Both sides in the conflict have their troubadours; their French counterparts are known as trouvert, but the tradition is most strongly associated with the south, and much of the poetry is composed in the Occitan tongue. There are also many minstrels and wandering players who perform the works composed by the troubadours, and who have also suffered from the poor fortunes of their former patrons. These patrons, often the great ladies of the isolated castles, the chatelaines, were just as important as the musicians and poets. Many have developed considerable influence and power in their sponsorship of the troubadours, and the webs of intrigue they can spin through cunning use of their infatuated lovers. It should not be assumed all troubadours are sympathetic to the heretics (who are extreme opponents of sexuality) or are male. Female troubadours called trobairitz also exist, one famous example being the Cathar-hating Gormonda de Monpeslier (“Monpeslier” is the Occitan name for Montpellier).''
''Notaries''
''An outgrowth of the remnants of Roman law, notaries appeared primarily in Narbonnais in the 1140s, drafting contracts and charters, developing concurrently with the consular governments common in communes. Notaries were first self-proclaimed, but later appointed by both secular and religious leaders as a means of creating a public office which helped develop the community through the authentication of agreements and documents which could be''
''used in legal proceedings if needed. Their services helped stabilize communities and later notaries were prohibited from becoming clergy; those who took the tonsure gave up their membership to the notariate.''

==An Occitanian Tribunal==

''Because of disputes between Normandy and the newly-extended Provençal Tribunal, the 1129 Grand Tribunal ruled the border between Provençal and Normandy Tribunals would be defined by where the people spoke Occitan. Although initially unpopular, this distinguishing characteristic of the Tribunal has been adopted by all of the magi of the area, to solidify their claims to its vis and other magical resources. In fact, they have so embraced this legal point that many Hermetic documents are written in both Latin and Occitan, including Tribunal minutes and proclamations.''

==The Fall of Windgraven==

''In 1197 the covenant of Windgraven, situated in the south of the County of Toulouse was destroyed by magi from Mistridge in a justly declared Wizard’s War. Windgraven had long had a dark reputation, and the necromancers who lived there had few allies. The covenant consisted of a selection of squat stone towers situated on a rocky plateau in the remains of a Visigothic fortress. The Mistridge magi magically bombarded it with giant rocks, almost leveling the site, in a grim foreshadowing of their own fate a few years later.''

==The Tribunal of 1207==

''Held at Aedes Mercurii, this Tribunal spent a whole day discussing the implications of the Church’s attempts to suppress Catharism. Ultimately no firm decision was made, although Oxioun of Tytalus, leader of Aedes Mercurii, spoke at length about the need to avoid interfering in mundane affairs. Oxioun and the large bloc of Mercurian magi were content to wait out developments from their''
''mountain sanctuary despite the misgivings of the lowland covenants of the Toulousain, Narbonnais, and the Rhone Valley. A few months after the Tribunal closed, the papal legate was murdered near St Gilles and Pope Innocent III declared a crusade against the heretics of southern France. Shortly thereafter Protantus, the Traditionalist Chief Quaesitor, died and was replaced by the more flexible Tibaut, a Transitionalist without Mercurian affiliations. The coincidence passed unnoticed to most magi, although the deaths marked the beginning of great changes in the mundane and Hermetic politics of Provençal.''

==Heretics==

''One of the defining features of the Provençal Tribunal is the prevalence of heretics in its borders. While heretics can be found throughout Mythic Europe, many heresies are limited largely to academics and theologians, and are not a general danger to the wider community. However, in Provençal, heresy has become so widespread as to form a serious challenge to the Church.''

==The Cathars==

''In the tenth century, the Provençal Tribunal saw the growth of a small heretical group, the Cathars. By 1220, the Cathar faith has become a major and entrenched regional rival to the Church. Their enemies call them Cathars, which means “pure ones,” in mockery, or Albigensians after the town of Albi, a stronghold of the heresy. They refer to themselves as Believers, and regard themselves as true Christians, and the Church as hopelessly corrupt, and theologically in error. The Cathars have developed a church structure of their own. Their “priests” are wandering preachers called Good Men or Good Women, or Perfecti. The Perfecti wear a simple black robe, fast regularly and live lives of poverty and service to the Cathar community. Their faith forbids them any food born of sexual union: eggs, milk, or meat. Fish reproduce asexually, so may be eaten. Perfecti carry a copy of the Gospels with them, and''
''preach renunciation of the material world as necessary for salvation. Because most people cannot live up to the ideal, ordinary Cathars usually only take the vows of the Perfecti as death approaches, donning the black robes and taking part in the single sacramental rite of the faith, the consolamentum.''
''Beliefs of the Cathars''
''Cathar doctrines vary. As heretics who have rejected the Church’s authority, they are prone to internal disputes over doctrine, and Cathars have highly divergent opinions on religion, though the influence of''

[|

==Virtue: Troubadour/Trobairitz==

''Minor, Social Status You are not tied to any community and survive by performing, entertaining, or doing other casual work. You may take Academic skills during character creation and should have a reputation regarding the sort of material you produce and your adherence to the tenets of courtly love. The Wealthy Virtue and Poor Flaw''
''affect you normally, although if you are wealthy, you are supported by someone. Your supporter does not question your activities in any way, however. Troubadour characters often possess virtues such as Famous, Free Expression, Inspirational, Puissant Performance, Social Contacts, True Love, and Well-Traveled.''

==Virtue: Notary==

''Minor, Social Status Due to your training, you may take Academic Abilities during character creation; however, notaries may not be members of the clergy and are subject to secular law. Your responsibilities include drawing contracts, witnessing charters, verifying transactions and''
''documents, and affixing a specially designed seal. Notaries generally receive their salary from their employer on Christmas. Notaries only have jurisdiction in specific realms or towns, such as the County of Nimes or the city of Montpellier. The Wealthy Virtue and Poor Flaw affect you normally.''

==What is Heresy?==

''Heresy is the teaching of error as truth; the spreading of false doctrines. To be a heretic, one must remain within the faith in question—if you leave a faith, you are an apostate, and if you never held the faith you may be an infidel, but you are not a heretic. In Christianity truth is known through a number of sources, the most important of which are scripture (the Bible) and tradition (the teachings of the Church). Religious truth may also be known by special revelation (an individual’s religious experiences such as visions or angelic encounters) and through natural theology (looking at the world and what can be established by empirical study of fallen creation) and by reason, where one logically examines the''
''nature of things. All of these can be snares for the unwary, where errors or demonic deception can lead one astray, and heresies arise where people think for themselves and choose to ignore the authority of the Church, and are misled or mistaken. It is the duty of the clergy to confront error, and correct it by teaching correct doctrine. In Ars Magica, all the great monotheistic religions (Judaism, Islam, Christianity, and Zoroastrianism) are by default true and share the Dominion (see Realms of Power: The Divine). Most Bogomils and Cathars, while dualist, still worship the Divine. Some heretics, however, are associated with other realms of power, and these groups are also discussed in this chapter.''

|]
''the Cathar bishops is creating a more stable theological structure. Cathars are dualists, seeing the universe as divided between good and evil. All matter and physical things are corrupt and evil; spirit is where goodness resides. They ask “How can a good God allow the evil and suffering in the world?” and answer “Because the world is corrupt and ruled by the Devil.” Humans are spirits ensnared in gross matter and suffering. As such, Cathars reject material things, and see procreation and childbirth—the bringing of another soul into this world of pain—as abhorrent and an evil act. Contraception is therefore a virtue, contrary to Church teaching, and mothers are of very low status, if not outright despised. Celibacy is a moral virtue highly regarded for this reason, while gluttony, avarice, and lust are despised. Having also rejected much if not all of the Old Testament, they hold the Gospels and parts of the New Testament as the only true revelation. Some believe the God of the Old Testament to actually be the evil demiurge. They embrace poverty, charity, and love, but reject most Christian sacraments, including mass, baptism, and often marriage. God would have nothing to do with the corrupt physical world, so he chose a pre-existent glorious being, Jesus Christ, to''
''enter the universe and allow a path to salvation. Some believe Jesus to be the second son of God; Lucifer was the first, but his rebellion and act of creating this universe caused the whole problem, and Lucifer has fallen to Hell becoming Satan. So Jesus entered the world as a pure spirit, taking on the semblance of humanity, but not participating in the world in any physical sense, for such a pure being could not actually incarnate. (This is the ancient heresy of Doceticism.) As such he was not crucified, merely appearing to be to deceive Satan, who tried to kill Him, and he did not actually die — the crucifixion and resurrection were symbolic spiritual acts, and the cross has no meaning to Cathars, who often despise the symbol as a sign of Satan’s apparent victory. Furthermore the Virgin Mary holds no significance for them — she, after all, only appeared to give birth to Jesus, as he had no physical embodiment. The Cathars are Arian; they deny the Trinity and see the Holy Spirit and Christ as created entities, not part of the Godhead. Finally, only spiritual sacraments such as the consolamentum are efficacious (denying the power of water in baptism and the bread and wine of the mass), and according to most Cathars they can only be administered by someone in a state of spiritual purity''
''and grace. This is in marked contrast to the Church’s teaching, where the grace of God allows the sacraments to be efficacious even if performed by a corrupt or ignorant priest. All of the Cathar beliefs expressed here are deeply heretical to the Church, and deeply offensive.''
''Organization of the Cathars''
''The Cathars historically represented a faith without a formal structure, except for the Perfecti. Following a debate at Lombers in 1165, however, they appointed bishops to preside over four dioceses, creating their own hierarchy. Some Cathars resisted the innovation, but the majority now accepts the system, and the number of dioceses has expanded to five. Each of the dioceses has a bishop and two elected deacons, the filius major (senior), and the filius minor, all Perfecti. When a bishop dies he is usually succeeded by the filius major, and if a filius major dies, he is replaced by his filius minor. While women can be Perfecta, they cannot hold the rank of bishop or serve as deaconesses. The deacons are the administrators and treasurers of the dioceses, serving the bishops and dealing with mundane matters such as distribution of charity and the running of the houses which serve as gathering places for prayer meetings. The five dioceses are Agen, Albi, Carcassonne, Razes, and Toulouse. Surprisingly perhaps, none of the bishops has yet been arrested or executed, and indeed the Perfecti are generally free to move about the countryside without interference. Only when the crusaders have first taken a town have executions occurred, and generally the Cathar structure remains unharmed, though Perfecti are careful not to be seen by the crusaders if possible, to avoid arrests, and public preaching is limited to areas where the crusaders cannot enforce their authority. Six hundred Perfecti, equally split between men and women, survive mainly in the area around Toulouse and the Pyrenees where the heresy is strongest, and whole towns and villages of heretics can be found there. Cathar congregations also exist in the Rhine, Roman, Greater Alps, Normandy, and Iberian Tribunals. Cathars are simply too common and too visible for magi to ignore, and characters must learn to deal with the heretics in some way,''

[|

==A Note On Terminology==

''As stated, the Cathars call themselves Believers (Croyants, Occitan, or Credentes, Latin), and their “priests” Good Men or Women (Occitan Bon Homme, Bon Femme). Outsiders call them Cathars, meaning “pure ones” and the “priests” Parfaits (French) or Perfecti (Latin), a jibe aimed at''
''their supposed “perfection.” As the terms Cathar and Perfecti are far more common today, and as Hermetic magi probably use these terms to describe the group, this book uses the familiar versions, but Cathar characters and their supporters use the correct terms.''

==The Consolamentum==

''The consolamentum is the sacred rite of the faith, which baptizes the Cathar in the Holy Spirit and prepares him for death. It is administered by a Perfectus, and involves certain questions and responses, the Lord’s Prayer and an exposition of its meaning in terms of the faith, and anointing with oil. It is vital not to sin or relapse in any way after it is''
''administered; it can only be given once and provides a Faith Point (see Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, page 74). As such, it is normally reserved for when death approaches. In the event death does not occur, it is common for Cathars to choose to starve to death, suffering the terminal fast to prevent the possibility of backsliding.''

|]
''whether by accepting them or by attempting to drive them off.''
''The Cathars and the Dominion''
''The Cathars, being aligned with the Divine, use the Divine column of the aura interaction table (ArM5, page 183). However, some odd but important exceptions exist. Churches and altars are not the center of Cathar-aligned Dominion auras; instead the auras are focused upon the meeting houses where the Cathars hold their prayer meetings, themselves typically mundane dwelling houses. They are rarely stronger than 1 or 2. Cathars do not invoke the saints (see Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition page 87), and in fact do not pray to saints, even the Virgin Mary. The Cathars despise and mock relics; they do not carry them, though in fact relics work as well for Cathars as anyone else. Apart from the consolamentum, they have no sacraments, but attendance at a prayer meeting grants a single Faith Point until the Cathar next sins, which may be used as a Confidence Point. Sin being ubiquitous in the world, this rarely lasts beyond the day. Of course Cathars can still benefit from the sacraments, so they can be converted, baptized, and do penance, for example.''
''The Cathars and the Order of Hermes''
''The Order of Hermes lacks a unified response to the Cathar heresy. While a number of Provençal magi embrace Cathar beliefs, others find the blasphemous tenets appalling. Some magi actively call upon the Church to take action against them, approving of the Crusade as necessary to save souls from damnation. Some argue that the falls of Lariander and Mistridge demonstrate how Cathar magi have brought destruction upon their sodales, justifying their delivery to the Church or Wizard’s March. So far no case has been brought against any avowedly Cathar magi; however the tensions have led to a state of internal Wizard’s War which has torn the covenant of Tolosa Paratge apart. (See Chapter 4: Toulouse, Tolosa Paratge) There is an Ex Miscellanea tradition, the Gorgiastic''
''Cathars, within the Tribunal who practice a magical form of the Cathar religion mixed with Criamon mysticism. (See Chapter 3: Hermetic Culture, Gorgiastic Cathars). In turn, most Cathars distrust wizards or witches, and neither understand the Order of Hermes nor know a great deal about it. They are far more likely to attack those they perceive as sorcerers than the Church, as their pacifism often does not extend to supernatural entities and anyone casting spells or using magic is clearly a supernatural entity. Individual magi are fully accepted, and can even become Perfecti, but anything hinting at paganism or supernatural forces opposed to the Divine is usually evil in the eyes of Cathars. At least one Blatantly Gifted magus is believed to have lost his life at the hands of a superstitious mob of Cathars believing him a demon in human form.''

==The Waldensians==

''Not all heretics deeply oppose the Church like the Cathars. Some accept it, and long only to reform it. Most important of these are the Waldensians. Despite their enthusiasm for reform, they often stray into heresy. They were popular preachers who translated the Bible into Occitan, but 1215 saw the Waldensians condemned as heretics, even though Pope Innocent III believed them “good Christians.” Waldensian characters may be modeled upon the Franciscans depicted in The Church, Chapter 8, as can their Dominican adversaries once they come to be organized in their efforts to convert back lost souls.''

==The Luciferians==

''Not all Cathars ally with the Divine realm, and not all claiming the Cathar mantle hold the same theological beliefs. Some extreme Cathar theologians call for the desecration of holy items and relics, an act considered terrible even by many other heretics. While many are casual diabolists who foolishly allow anger at the crusade and lust for personal power to tempt them down dark pathways of demonic lore, others are sincere holy men and women who''
''have made fundamental doctrinal errors, and see Lucifer as the savior of mankind. This heresy originated in the Rhine Tribunal, but has adherents here, hiding among the Cathars and slowly spreading their corruption. They are detailed in Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 127.''

==The Albigensian Crusade==

''The recent history of the Tribunal has been marked by the atrocities and horrors of the Albigensian Crusade. This violence, now temporarily abated, will have had a strong impact on many characters from the Tribunal. The reason for the crusade is the prevalence of heresy in the region, and heretics can be found throughout the Tribunal, but the most infamous and numerous of these heretics are the Cathars, described earlier.''
''Winning Back Souls''
''The heretics have existed for centuries, but in 1145 Bernard of Clairvaux was sent to the region to preach and bring the heretics back to the Church. He was only present for one hot summer, and met with success in Albi and Toulouse, but outside of the cities was met with scorn and insults. The heretics were denounced in 1163 at the Council of Tours, as were those who gave them shelter, and entered in to commerce with, or even fraternized with them. While the response to the various heresies varied, the Cathars were the main targets of this anathema, which had very little effect. As was said by the nobles of the region during the crusade, how could they take up arms against their own friends and relatives, people they had lived with all their lives and knew to be good neighbors? In 1165 a disputatio took place at Lombers, where the Cathars met with assembled churchmen. Unsurprisingly, the Cathars were found to be heretical, but they were allowed to depart in peace. In''
''1167 the Cathars formed their own “church hierarchy,” with five dioceses and a system of bishops and deacons. In 1179, the third Lateran Council declared an anathema on the heretics, and called on all Christians to take up arms against them. In 1181 Cardinal Pietro d’Albano raised an army and marched to Lavaur, besieging the town, but only two Cathars recanted after the surrender, and little came of this expedition. Seeing no success, in 1203 the pope dispatched two papal legates, but this mission only revealed a further problem.''
''The region had a number of corrupt and wealthy bishops, who neglected their duties and yet proved almost impossible to remove, and who bitterly resented the intervention of the pope in their private affairs. The pope created another legate, one Arnaud Amaury. One of his chosen new bishops, Bishop Foulque, on being appointed to the See of Toulouse, found the bishop’s status had sunk so low under his predecessor he needed to travel with an armed escort and could not reside in his diocese lest he was murdered. It also became clear the nobility were''
''not driving heretics from their lands. In May 1207, Count Raimond VI of Toulouse was excommunicated for sheltering heretics. He immediately assured the pope he would comply and drive them from his domain; in August, the excommunication was lifted. When it became clear Pope Innocent III would call a crusade to ensure this was done, Raimond played for time, arranging to meet the papal legates in January 1208 at St. Gilles. The stage was set for catastrophe.''
''Death on the Riverbank''
''At the meeting, Raimond equivocated and stalled negotiations with the legates. Angrily, they rode away and the count publicly threatened them with death in a frustrated outburst. The legates traveled through the night toward Arles, and before dawn celebrated mass while waiting for the ferry. After the service, one of the legates, Pierre de Castelnau, took his mule down to the riverbank to watch for the ferry. Suddenly a knight appeared, lance leveled, and struck down the unarmed cleric. Pierre de Castelnau was dying by the time the others reached him, his murderer having ridden off. He died asking God for forgiveness for his assailant; it was too late, and the first victim of the impending horror died as the sun rose.''
''The Crusade Is Preached''
''The pope was incensed, convinced that Count Raimond had ordered the murder. Legate Arnaud Amaury and Bishop Foulques of Toulouse traveled abroad to preach a crusade, and the pope offered those who participated not just the usual benefits, but all debts to Jewish moneylenders were to be annulled, and the crusaders could take a share in the lands of the heretics they displaced. French nobles and younger sons eyed their wealthy southern neighbors with avaricious eyes, and saw a chance to carve out great new estates. A crusading army assembled at Lyons, and sensing disaster, Raimond tried to make amends, undergoing strict penance and being led barefoot with a rope around his neck to be scourged in front of a huge crowd in the square at St. Gilles. His excommunication was lifted, but he was ordered to dismiss his mercenaries and all''

[|

==Playing a Perfectus==

''Perfecti are, by their nature, world-denying ascetics, and so may prove difficult characters to fit into many sagas. Despite that, some players may relish the challenge. In Mythic Europe, a few Perfecti have powerful supernatural abilities; these are represented by Mythic Companions, played in place of a magus (see Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, page 94). It is, however, quite possible to play a Perfectus as a normal companion character.''
''Virtue: Perfectus''
''Minor, Social Status''
''Due to your training, you may take Academic Abilities during character creation. Your responsibilities include''
''preaching the Gospel, abstaining from eating meat and dairy produce, from sex and romance, and from other acts that ensnare you in the sinful world. You should take the Flaw: Vow to represent your solemn religious obligations. You may not take the Wealthy Virtue, as you are supported by the tithes and contributions of your congregations. As a heretic you are currently at great risk from the Crusade, which will execute you if you are caught and refuse to recant your beliefs. You may take the Purity and Transcendence Supernatural Abilities from Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition if your character has the True Faith Virtue, but these are not free Virtues. You may, however, take them as Virtues, as normal.''

==The Cathars and Pacifism==

''The Cathars are extreme pacifists, and take non-resistance to evil very seriously, just as they will not swear oaths, lie, or perjure themselves. When captured, most rejoice in martyrdom, walking happily to their deaths. Non-Cathar characters may well be surprised, annoyed, and frustrated when, after considerable effort to rescue a Perfecta, the imprisoned Good Woman condemns them for violence and remains in her cell to await death. However, after 1214, a new doctrine developed among some of the Cathars, mitigating their extreme pacifism. While it is wrong to war with''
''humans or harm animals, it is acceptable to fight demons and those possessed by demons to resist supernatural evil. As such, anyone with a Might score or who employs supernatural powers is a legitimate enemy, and some Cathars have gone as far as to take arms against Crusaders, arguing they are tools of devils. Magi may well find themselves treated with suspicion, or even violence. Cathars’ sympathizers and friends were often willing to resort to violence to protect the Cathars anyway, else there would have been no real need for a crusade to begin with.''

|]
''Jews from his service, surrender seven castles, restore Church lands he had misappropriated and actively persecute the heretics. It was not expected he would comply with the conditions, but in June 1209 he did the unthinkable, and joined the crusade that had been declared primarily against him, hence depriving it of its major target. The Trencavel domains became the new target.''
''Kill Them All; God Will Know His Own''
''As the crusade approached Montpellier, a Raimond-Rogier Trencavel, Viscount of Béziers, asked to be allowed to join. Having lost the chance to overthrow Raimond VI of Toulouse who had cunningly joined the crusade, Arnaud Amaury refused; RaimondRogier retreated to Béziers, took the town’s Jews to safety, and retreated further to Carcassonne, promising to send reinforcements back to Béziers. As the crusade approached, the townsfolk were asked to surrender two hundred known heretics. They refused and bolted the gates. A huge group of crusading camp followers, ruffians armed only with knives and clubs, gathered near the walls as the crusaders’ soldiery and knights planned their assault. Seeing unarmored men below, a group of Béziers’ young warriors opened the gate and rushed out, slaughtering a few in the chaos. Suddenly, however, the mob of camp followers turned the tide, and ran in to the city beginning indiscriminate slaughter. Seeing the gates open, the crusading knights charged in as well. It may have been at this moment that a knight asked Arnaud Amaury the question as to how the good Christians could be separated from the heretics. His reply is said to have been the infamous words, “Kill them all; God will know his own.” The city was destroyed, and even those who took shelter in the churches were massacred. Perhaps fifteen thousand, perhaps twice that, died.''
''Treachery at Carcassonne''
''When the crusaders arrived at the walled city of Carcassonne, it was clear the city could withstand a siege for a consider''
''able time. The crusaders laid siege anyway, and by August Viscount Raimond-Rogier Trencavel was willing to negotiate. He left the city for discussions with the crusaders; his foes treacherously took him prisoner and confined him. (See Chapter 4: Toulouse, Lastours). The city surrendered, and while the citizens and garrison were spared, the city was looted of treasures. A mystery remains as to why the city was forced to surrender.''
''A New Leader''
''When the French noble leaders of the crusade finished their forty days’ service, they returned home. Arnaud Amaury and a committee elected a new leader, a minor knight called Simon de Montfort, who held estates in the Ile de Paris. He had lost his English estates by a decree of King John stating one could hold lands from the French King or from him; he had elected''

[|

==The Bogomils==

''The Bogomils hold many doctrines in common with the Cathars, and may historically share a common origin, but while the Cathars are strongest in the Provençal Tribunal, the Bogomils can be found in the Thebes and Transylvanian Tribunals (see Against the Dark page 50 for details). The Bogomils and Cathars regard each other as brethren, and in the''
''12th and early 13th centuries there was a considerable traffic of missionaries and scholars between them. While geographical distance has increased their doctrinal differences, the two great dualist religious movements continue to be linked, and Bogomil preachers from the East continue to arrive to inspire and preach among the communities of the Languedoc.''

==The Crusade and Your Saga==

''Any saga set in the Provençal Tribunal must face the reality of the recent horrors of the crusade, and it is highly likely that the events of the past eleven years have had a formative effect on newly Gauntleted magi, companions, and grogs alike. Are they Catholic, Cathar, Waldensian, Jewish, or of another faith group? How do they feel about the heretics? Do they support the crusade, or are they hostile to the de Montforts? Are they patriots supporting the southern lords, or do they look to the foreign French throne? It is likely that characters''
''of very different background and beliefs may come together in a covenant here, and will switch sides, betray friends, and change loyalties as events unfold. When designing a character from the region, consider whether they have been caught up in any of the recent events, and how that back-history has influenced them. Did they survive Béziers? Fight at Muret? Take part in the betrayal at Carcassonne? Were they apprenticed in one of the covenants like Mistridge or Lariander that fell in the fighting?''

==Saint Dominic==

''The Church did have one outstanding missionary among the heretics in this period, Dominic of Guzman (later Saint Dominic), who walked barefoot among the heretics, begging for alms and practicing the strict personal sanctity and holiness familiar to the region only from the Cathar Perfecti and Waldensian preachers. Defeating demons, preach''
''ing against heresy, and risking his life among his enemies, he won more personal admiration than converts, but his was a bold example of what a mission to the region could be. From 1206 to 1208 he was a familiar sight, and became well loved even among the heretics he opposed for his personal piety, humility, and bravery.''

|]
''to maintain his French estates, but he was determined to take new lands in the south. Ably assisted by his wife Alice, he now led the crusade.''
''A Handful of Knights''
''In the autumn of 1209, as the crusaders returned home, de Montfort commanded thirty knights and five hundred foot soldiers both to garrison an unruly and hostile city, Carcassonne, and to face whatever resistance may emerge. De Montfort declared himself Viscount of Béziers and Carcassonne, but King Pedro of Aragon refused to accept him as a vassal.''
''The Fall of Mistridge''
''The covenant of Mistridge had long been famed for its powerful magi and awe inspiring location, a magically-created tower on the edge of a precipice in the Val du Bosque, seemingly impregnable to any mundane assault. In the winter of 1209 a magus named Tres declared Wizard’s War on every member of the covenant. Some say he intended to avenge the magi of Windgraven, others claim he had a personal dispute with the proud magi of this covenant after they refused him hospitality and treated him as little more than a hedge wizard. Despite his infamous trial at the Tribunal of 1214 his reasons for the attack remain obscure. Tres had with him two other magi of the rusticani (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 130), his tradition, and a large number of mercenaries armed with magic weaponry of his own devising. The magical siege engines he brought with him demolished Mistridge, killing the defenders.''
''Murder of the Monks''
''Despite his overall success, de Montfort failed to take the strongholds at Lastours. The de Cabaret family provided a core of resistance. The Abbot of St. Gilles and a group of clerics were ambushed and slaughtered by a knight (the brother of then Bishop Raimond of Carcassonne) who fled to Cabaret for protection. As rebellion flared, most of the previously''
''surrendered castles and towns changed loyalties again. De Montfort began a new campaign to suppress the revolt, taking Bram and conducting one of the greatest atrocities of the crusade (see Chapter 4: Toulouse, Bram) before marching to Alairac, taking it, and killing the entire garrison. Raimond VI did nothing to fulfill his vows, resulting in excommunication. Having protested to the pope he needed more time, Raimond’s excommunication was once again lifted in January. Meanwhile, in Toulouse, Bishop Foulques de Marseilles formed his White Brotherhood to attack heretics, money lenders and Jews. A Black Brotherhood developed in opposition, and street battles begin.''
''The Fall of Minerve and Termes''
''When the castle at Aguilar held out, the crusaders abandoned the siege and marched to besiege Minerve. One hundred and thirty seven Cathars were burned; only three women chose to recant and save their lives. De Montfort took several more castles and towns, establishing himself as lord over the Trencavel lands. Yet only 150 Cathars had been executed during the crusade, most of them at Minerve. It became clear the crusade was more about military conquest of the south than about heresy, despite the efforts of the papal legates.''
''A Last Chance at Peace?''
''In 1211, King Pedro of Aragon attempted to broker a peaceful settlement. He finally accepted homage from de Montfort as viscount of Béziers and Carcassonne. Count Raimond of Toulouse met with the legates, also attempting one last effort to end the crusade. The terms were too harsh, and the south responded with general warfare. The atrocity at Lavaur followed (See Chapter 4: Toulouse, Lavaur), and the executions of sixty more Cathars captured at Les Casses. Finally, after an extended campaign in the north of the county, de Montfort besieged Toulouse. Loyal members of the Church''
''looked to Bishop Foulques for leadership — he told them to surrender the city, and renounce the count, or suffer the same fate as the heretics. This appalled and angered the Church’s faithful, and they turned against the Bishop who was forced to flee, even as de Montfort failed to take the city.''
''The Massacre at Montgey and the Fall of Lariander''
''In the summer of 1211, peasants and a small party of southern knights massacred a large party of three hundred German knights as they passed through a faerie forest near the village of Montgey. The reprisals destroyed the village and the Tremere covenant of Lariander in the forest, leaving a terrible warning that even the Order could fall victim to the Crusade’s violence.''
''The Battle of St Martin-Lalande''
''In autumn 1211, Count Raimond gathered his forces and menaced de Montfort’s small outnumbered force, but de Monfort constantly raided and took the initiative. Finally, the southerners attacked only to be routed and decisively defeated in open battle by the crusaders.''
''The Children’s Crusade''
''The year 1212 saw an extraordinary popular movement, as thousands of children and peasants followed a young visionary south from the Rhineland, passing through Northern France before entering the region and marching toward the Mediterranean. They claimed the sea would part, allowing them to cross and convert the Muslims of North Africa before marching on to Jerusalem. When they reached Marseilles, the sea did not part, but a large number boarded ships to sail to Africa, and were never seen again. It is feared many were sold into slavery in Africa, though the truth remains obscure. Others simply gave up and returned home, or found employment in Marseilles.''
''The Battle of Muret''
''With King Pedro II of Aragon now actively supporting the southerners, the crusaders were again outnumbered and in real trouble. Ten miles downriver from Toulouse, the town of Muret was attacked by Pedro, Raimond, and the Count of Foix with a vast army in autumn 1213. They took the town easily and hanged the garrison, but de Montfort appeared on the other side of the river, and while greatly outnumbered, a surprise flank march through the marshes ensured his victory. King Pedro was killed, and ten thousand men died in a battle lasting less than half an hour; the southerners routed. Many drowned trying to flee across the Garonne; their ghostly cries still issue from the river when rainfall swells the waters and disturbs their bones. The Battle of Muret ended the resistance for many years, forcing Raimond to seek redress in Rome rather than on the battlefield.''
''The Struggle for Toulouse''
''In 1215 Simon de Montfort triumphantly entered Toulouse and installed himself in the Château Narbonnais. Within a year a popular uprising occurred, and fighting throughout the city was put down after great efforts. In the autumn of 1217, while de Montfort campaigned in the north of the region, Count Raimond suddenly returned and the jubilant citizens admitted him. On his return, de Montfort found the city gates locked against him, and Raimond restored as count, so once again besieged the city. After many months, a stone from a siege machine upon the walls struck de Montfort directly upon the head, killing him. Some suspect this may have been one of the magical siege engines devised by Tres Ex Miscellanea and employed in the destruction of Mistridge. Amaury de Montfort laid claim to Simon’s titles, and Alice de Montfort continues to play an important role as a leader and strategist for the campaign, but Simon’s death precipitated the disintegration of the great domain he carved out. Today there are no clear borders; castles owing allegiance to either side stand within a few miles of each other, and both sides maintain garrisons scattered across the County and beyond.''
''The French Intervention''
''In 1219, a second crusade began. Directed by the French royal court, the nobility of northern France supported this endeavor to incorporate the South within greater France. After taking Marmande and conducting a massacre there, the invaders were repulsed before the walls of Toulouse, and today Count Raimond is re-ascendent, restoring control over his County.''

==Languages of Southern France==

''The following living languages, each with distinct regional dialects, are spoken in the cultured lands of southern France. Most characters should take the appropriate dialect as a specialty but Educated or welltravelled speakers will have tried hard to rid themselves of their dialect and may have standard specialties (see ArM5, page 66).''
''Occitan (Gascon, Provençal/Languedoc, Limousin, Auvergnat, Vivaro-Alpine, Aranese) French (Bourguignon, Orelanais, Poitevin) Burgundian/Romand Catalan (Western, Eastern) Lingua Franca (Western, Eastern) Basque/Euskara  Dialects of Occitan (also known somewhat confusingly as Langues d’Oc) are spoken throughout most of the tribunal, in particular: Gascon, Provençal/Languedoc and Vivaro-Alpine (also spoken in some mountainous valleys in northwestern Piedmont). In the northern parts of Aquitaine, bordering the Normandy Tribunal, the following dialects are used from west to east: Poitevin (actually a French or langue d’oïl dialect), Limousin, and Auvergnat (both Occitan dialects). The troubadours sing and compose their songs and poems in dialects of Occitan throughout the area and into Catalonia, Castile, and northern Italy, although Provence and the Toulousain remain the''
''major centers of courtly culture. The majority of Lower Burgundy, consisting of the Kingdom of Arelat and the County of Provence, speaks the Provençal dialect of Occitan, although the Vivaro-Alpine dialect can be found in southern Dauphine and up to the northeast border with Savoy. The French dialect of Bourguignon is heard in the north near the French-aligned Duchy and County of Burgundy. The transitional language of Burgundian or Romand is spoken around Lyons and in the northern part of Dauphine into Savoy. Speakers include those in the western parts of the Greater Alps Tribunal and a few isolated Italian Alpine valleys. Orleanais, the Parisian dialect of French, is spoken mainly by northern clergymen, crusaders, merchants, tradesmen, and those needing to communicate with the nobility of France. Toward the Mediterranean coast and particularly in Marseilles, lingua franca or Sabir (the pidgin language of trade) is more common, although Italian, Veneto, and various Spanish dialects can be heard. A rare dialect of Occitan, Aranese, is spoken only in the small Catalan county of the Val d’Aran, in the valley on the northward face of the Pyrenees that holds the source of the Garonne. Closely related to Occitan but distinct enough to be a separate language, the eastern dialect of Catalan is spoken in the courts of the county of Provence under its Catalan counts and Roussilon is the same as that spoken in Barcelona, the Catalan counties of the former Frankish March, and the Balearic islands. A western dialect of Catalan is spoken in Valencia and the mountain country of Ribacorga. Basque, known as “Euskara” to its speakers, is spoken on both sides of the Pyrenees and in parts of northern Navarre. It has a multitude of dialects but for simplicity is treated as one highly distinct language, too unrelated to Latin or its descendents to be easily understood by anything other than a native speaker. It still uses the Latin script, however. A small number of Jews, particularly in Montpellier, speak Hebrew or the local Provençal dialect—a distinct JudeoProvençal dialect has not yet emerged. Arabic is spoken by either slaves (Andalusi or Maghrebi dialects) or the rare scholar (Classical dialect).''
''Latin remains the scholarly language of the Provençal Church and scholars at the new University of Montpellier. The vernacular poetry of the troubadours is primarily written and performed in Limousin, but is under threat from the strife of the Albigensian Crusade.''
''Same language, different dialects: –1 penalty to both speakers French vs Occitan: –2 penalty to both speakers Occitan vs Catalan: –1 penalty to both speakers French vs Catalan: –3 penalty to both speakers''
''Lingua Franca vs Occitan or Catalan: –2 penalty to both speakers Burgundian vs French (Bourguignon) or Occitan (Provençal or Vivaro-Alpine): –1 penalty to both speakers Burgundian vs French (other dialects) or Occitan (other dialects): –2 penalty to both speakers''
''The other pairs are so disparate that comprehension is likely to be based on signing and good guesswork, or magic. Example: A character from Arles with Occitan 5 (Provençal/Languedoc) speaks to his fellows in Provence and the Toulousain with an effective score of 6, Occitan''
''speakers with no dialect with an effective score of 5, Occitan speakers of different dialects with a score of 4, Burgundian or Catalan speakers with an effective score of 4, and speakers of French or Lingua Franca at an effective score of 3, but would have difficulty speaking with English crusaders if they spoke Anglo-Norman (effective score 2). He cannot be understood by speakers of Basque, however. A character speaking one of the southern Occitan dialects has the same communication issues, except he communicates with Burgundian speakers with more difficulty at an effective score of only 3.''

[|

==Example Southern French Names==

''Many southern French names are similar to their northern French counterparts. See The Lion and the Lily, pages 136–137 for an extensive list of northern French, Breton and Flemish names that may be used for characters with northern French backgrounds. A selection of Occitan names with their northern French equivalents in parentheses is given here to aid in conversion, but some names are either the same as in French or without a direct French equivalent. Thus Raimond-Berengiers is the Occitan version of the more common French pronunciation of RaymondBerengar, the Catalan count of Provence. Catalan names are similar to Occitan names and are used predominantly in the county of Provence and the southern coastal district of Rousillon — the Count of Provence is thus referred to as RamonBerenguer in his native Catalan domains.''
''Male Occitan Names''
''Aimeric (Aimery), Aliazars (Éléazar), Aloys (Louis), Arnald (Arnold), Baudoïs''
''(Baudoin), Bausas (Bausan), Berengiers (Bérenger), Bernart (Bernard), Bertrans (Bertrand), Bochartz (Bouchard), Claris (Clarin), Crespi (Crépin), Dalmatz (Dalmas), Donat, Ebratz (Evrard), Enricx (Henri), Estève (Estève, Stephen), Folcaut (Foucaud), Folquets (Folques), Gaston, Garnier, Gaucelis (Josselin), Gui(s) (Guy), Guillhelm (Guillame), Imbert, Jaufres (Geoffroy), Jaques (Jacques), Johan (Jean), Jordas (Joudain), Joris, Lucatz (Lucas), Marius (Moreau), Martis (Martin), Nicholas, Otes (Eudes), Otz (Ot), Peire (Pierre), Ponce (Pons), Raimond or Ramon (Raymond), Rainaut (Renaud), Reiambalts (Raimbaud), Rogers (Roger), Rotlans (Roland), Savarics (Savary), Segui (Sequin), Sicart (Sicard), Simos (Simon), Tibaut (Thibaud), Ucs (Hugues)''
''Female Occitan Names''
''Alienor (Éléanor), Alazaïs, Anaïs (Anna), Bausanna (Bausanne), Constansa (Constance), Elena (Hélène), Elionor (Éléonore), Ermengarda, Ermessenda,''
''Garsenda, Girauda (Giraude), Magali (Margaret), Mirèio (Mirelle), Petrona, Rixenda (Richenda), Rubea''
''Male Catalan Names''
''Alfons, Amat, Andrea, Arbert, Arnau, Artal, Berenguer, Bernat, Bernad, Bertran, Bonadona, Calvet, Dalmu, Dolcet, Ferrer, Gilabert, Guilabertus, Gombal, Guerau, Guillem, Guillelmus, Hug, Matthew, Miró, Olivar, Pere, Perpinyà, Ponç, Ramon, Ricart, Seguinus, Vidal''
''Female Catalan Names''
''Arsendis, Ermessendis, Ermessèn, Guillema, Guillelma, Titbores, Raimunda, València''
''Basque Names''
''Examples of Basque names in Euskara are given in Chapter 6: the Pyrenees.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
