''Symbol: A wagon wheel with spokes made of seven swords''
''One of the oldest covenants of the Order of Hermes, Val-Negra was once a paragon of power and influence on par with Durenmar. It was the most populous covenant in the Order’s history, having 33 members at its peak. Ravaged by politics and devastated in the Schism War, its legend is familiar to every Hermetic magus, yet much remains mystery. Even its exact location and the means of entry are forgotten. Some believe Val-Negra still exists in self-imposed isolation, deliberately hiding from the rest of the Order. Others say it’s slowly fading into myth because of the mystical nature of Mount Perditu’s regio, or has been absorbed by the Magic Realm. But a few say the potential remains for bold magi to seek out and revive Val-Negra.''

==History==

''Complex and largely forgotten, the history of Val-Negra should only emerge from dedicated effort on the part of magi re''
''searching the many rumors, tales, few facts, and many obvious lies.''
''Delendar the Destroyer''
''Val-Negra was originally the stronghold of an old Mercurian wizard named Delendar, who seized it after defeating a cabal of sorcerers who had themselves subjugated the mysterious indigenous inhabitants, the Aerie Clan. Flambeau came to recruit Delendar after the Founding, but the old wizard had passed before his arrival. In his dying vision, Delendar saw the coming of Flambeau and bequeathed him the stronghold. His only apprentice, young Delendos, joined the Order under House Flambeau.''
''The Founding''
''Val-Negra was established immediately after the First Tribunal, but it took several years before Flambeau and Guernicus agreed upon a charter. Flambeau insisted upon suzerainty over any covenants ValNegra helped establish. His insistence on this matter resulted in the Second Grand Tribunal creating procedures to establish and govern Regional Tribunals. The next year, 774, the Covenant of Val-Negra was officially recognized, and a regional Tribunal formed around it.''
''The Golden Age''
''The covenant knew a glorious history during the golden age of the early Order. The stories of this era are too numerous and varied (and contradictory) to detail here. Troupes should feel free to write their own version of history on this blank page.''
''The Schism War''
''Long suspicious of House Diedne and wary of their regional influence, members of Val-Negra clamored for conflict. Their political clout helped spark the Schism War, though they only hastened the inevitable. At Val-Negra, Primus Entisimon galvanized his House into unity with a stirring speech. The vaults opened, pouring forth vis and silver from the coffers indiscriminately. Many members sallied forth to make early strikes upon an unprepared enemy. These early expeditions suffered heavy casualties: Lucien the Fat of Flambeau died in an ambush; Leo Augustus of Flambeau and Vegetius of Tremere perished in the assault on Askelarre; Delendez of Flambeau won many victories against the Diedne of Galicia and Navarre, but disappeared into Twilight amid the heat of battle; Val-Negra lost seven magi of various Houses in the Final Victory against Llewellyn. At the end of the war, Iarna of Flambeau departed to pursue the Diedne to the far corners of existence and was never seen again. An Ex Miscellanea prophecy says she will return should the Diedne ever reappear. Of 25 magi at the start of the conflict, only 4 survived by the end. Thus, many of the cultures and traditions of Val-Negra perished as well. The zealous magi also made the tragic mistake of leaving their home weakly defended. Five Diedne Archmagi assaulted Val-Negra, believed impregnable to outsiders. What trickery they used in order function inside the Aegis remains a mystery. Passing undetected through magical traps and wards, they bravely assaulted the Iron Door itself. In the chaos, something was released. The Diedne killed three of the five defending magi and several grogs. But they, in turn, were destroyed by the horror unleashed. The two surviving defenders, themselves archmagi, astonishingly managed to''

=The Lost Covenant of Val-Negra=


==135 135==

''subdue this menace and reclose the door. But the ancient magical seal had been disenchanted. In its place, they cast a powerful Hermetic ward upon it, enough to keep whatever it is locked inside. Unlike the seal, created by a now-lost Rite of Fenicil that made it permanent, the circular ward can be broken by simply opening the door. This crisis caused a quiet panic. The Quaesitors made great effort to keep events secret from the Order at large, and decided Val-Negra must not rise again. The domus magna of House Flambeau moved to Castra Solis.''

==Setting & Description==

''The Black Vale (Val Negra) is located in a gorge of the Tessier River on the southern side of Mount Perditu in the Pyrenees. Cut deep into the living rock, the sun directly shines down into the ravine only during the peak hours of the day. The thick mists rising from the river below obscure even this small amount of light and inspired the name Val Negra, “the black vale.”''
''Many strange things happen on Perditu. Travelers become lost and are usually never seen again. Those who do return remember almost nothing. Folk tales speak of a faerie “King of the Lost Mountain,” who built Perditu as a sanctuary for the forgotten heroes of yore. Though Merinita magi report encounters with strange faeries on the mountain, the fabled Lost King and his stronghold remain both lost and fables. Very few human settlements persist, mainly isolated villages in the foothills subsisting on goatherding and simple agriculture.''
''Into the Black Vale''
''The magical center of the mountain, the greater portion of the Black Vale’s wilderness has Magic auras varying between 1 to 4, depending on location and time of year. At the edge of the gorge sits the mysterious village of Perdut. Beyond it, the valley twists in a complicated network called the Labyrinthine Caverns. At the innermost point lies the fortress of Val-Negra, secreted in the deepest layer of a regio with a Magic aura of 8.''
''The Village of Perdut''
''Magic Aura 6 Perdut is a tiny isolated village, whose residents have been warped by the aura to appear extremely old or very young. They haven’t seen outsiders in generations, but their folklore speaks of a time when strangers would come to meet with the “watchers.” They live in fear and awe of these unseen watchers, unknowingly referring to members of the Aerie Clan who still walk invisibly amongst the villagers on occasion. This village of about thirty consists of five houses and a shared plot of farmland. On a hill stands an old manor. Empty for years, the villagers maintain it out of fear of and respect for the watchers. This once served as Val-Negra’s guest house. These villagers gladly show visiting characters to the guest house, providing service and food. Though they seem intimidated by strangers, The Gift apparently doesn’t affect them. A small stone building sits on the outskirts of the village. Now in ruins, this once housed a Mercere Portal (destination unknown), deliberately destroyed by a''
''Disenchant ritual long ago. Proceeding into the gorge, travelers cross into the regio and enter the Labyrinthine Caverns.''
''The Labyrinthine Caverns''
''Magic Aura 6 The gorge twists and splits chaotically, and the trail seems to shift and change. All along are numerous cave openings into what is known as the Labyrinthine Caverns. These complex caverns are likewise inconsistent, forming shifting mazes of endless dark passages that connect to the regio network of the Pyrenees. Various creatures have become trapped in this honeycomb of passages. Others inhabit areas around cave openings. These include flesh-hungry ogres, venomous drakes, mutated animals, and fiery serpents. Travelers may be forced to deal with numerous terrible foes to pass through this area.''
''The Valley of Mists''
''Magic Aura 7 Passing from the Labyrinthine Caverns to the Valley of the Mists involves crossing the regio boundary, accessible only when the valley fills with mist rising up from the Tessier River at night and soon after dawn. This level of the regio is filled with a thick mist which obscures vision and makes breathing laborious. Its consistency varies from hot and humid to bone chilling cold, with opposite extremes existing paces apart. It is quiet here. Living things rarely stir. Those with Second Sight may perceive the mist as thriving with spirits; ghosts of lost travelers, malicious imps, river sprites, tortured spirits who have forgotten their purpose and origin, and others. Finding the boundary to exit the Valley of Mists is easy as finding a clearing in the fog; easily accomplished with Auram magic, but finding Val-Negra requires finding a hidden circle of light. The boundary cannot be perceived from any other location. Finding the circle requires at least an hour, and a failed Perception test (Ease Factor 12) requires another hour. Once the boundary is crossed, Val-Negra becomes visible in the distance.''
''The Circle of Light Mu (Pe)Vi(Te) 79 Pen +0, constant effect R: Touch D: Constant T: Boundary This shrinks access to Val-Negra to a small circle of light ten paces in diameter, preventing anyone seeing into the next level of regio unless standing in it. This spell utilizes the Mystery of Hermetic Architecture and the enchantment Closed Privacy of the Enchanted Regio, both detailed in The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 97.''
''The Fortress of Val-Negra''
''Magic Aura 8 From the circle of light, a successful regio perception reveals the entrance of a massive stone bridge across a vast chasm. There is nothing but desolate plateau on this side, but across the distance one may clearly see the crumbling yet still majestic fortress of ValNegra built along the face of the mountain. The most impressive edifice, the great Black Tower, looms tall over the covenant. The outer walls still stand strong, and several other towers remain intact. Few interior buildings remain; most have crumbled into ruins. A vast garden of magical plants, grown wild, spreads over the area. Several scattered pits lead down into a network of caves and tunnels beneath the covenant. The Black Guard of the Aerie Clan stands constant watch, despite a lack of visitors in generations.''

==Sites of Interest==

''A few sites within Val-Negra proper stand out as of particular interest.''
''The Guardian’s Tower''
''Crossing the chasm, one formally enters the precincts of Val-Negra. The path to the main gate crosses under a bridge between the Guardian’s Tower on the right (overlooking the chasm) and the Black Tower on the left (built into and up out from the stone of the mountain). Neither can be accessed from here. Entering the Guardian’s Tower requires crossing the bridge from the Black Tower, which can only be entered from in''
''side the covenant. A magus may use magic to transport himself up onto the bridge, but he may be inhibited by a very powerful Aegis of the Hearth (level 50, with a Penetration of 25). At least two guards of the Aerie Clan (see below) occupy the tower at any given time, one on the top floor and one on the bottom. If visitors are properly identified as Hermetic magi, the guards grant them entry and provide them with tokens to operate within the Aegis. The top floor of the Guardian’s Tower connects to the Black Tower via the bridge. A bell in the center of the tower is enchanted to ring whenever someone crosses the boundary of the regio. Because of the design of the covenant alongside a cliff, the middle floor of this tower is on the covenant’s ground level. The bottom floor is built in to the cliff overlooking the chasm below. Large windows open to a terrifying fall.''
''The Black Tower''
''The most prominent physical feature of the covenant, the Black Tower stands as a silent memorial to past days of glory. It was created by Delendos, and presented to Apromor as the seat from which to preside as Primus. Successors maintained their sanctum here until the relocation of the domus magna. Half the tower is embedded in the very mountain; only the top is unattached. There are several staircases within. The Grand Stair runs between the third and sixth floors, and the seventh can only be accessed by magic. The top two floors were one considered the traditional sanctum and seat of the Primus of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Lighting the Way==

''In times past, Redcaps were equipped with enchanted lanterns which shone different colored lights illuminating a safe path through the regio all the way to Val-Negra. Obtaining one would make the journey much easier, but could form a story unto itself. Harco keeps such a lantern in their vault, and the Primus Garus owns one as well. But asking to borrow one will certainly raise questions.''

|}
''House Flambeau. The sixth was designed to be the reception halls of the Primus, a private area outside his sanctum where he could entertain guests and hold private meetings. There are a small dining hall, a spare lab (in relatively good condition), and guest quarters for up to six people. The seventh floor cannot be accessed by mundane means, for it is sealed off without doors, windows, or stairs. It contains separate''
''living quarters for the Primus, a tiny private library, a main lab (redesigned by successive Primi) and the infamous Dissolution Chamber (the specialized Perdo laboratory of Apromor). Other things that remain here are up to the imagination of the storyguide. The fourth and fifth floors contain numerous miscellaneous rooms for various purposes; meeting rooms, a conference hall, a scriptorium, two guest laboratories (in a state of ruin),''
''and more. The Memorial, on the fourth floor, is an opulent chamber now shrouded in cobwebs, dedicated to the memory of heroic magi. A magnificent tapestry depicts the Val-Negra magi who perished in the Schism War, though it is incomplete. Other artifacts and displays depict earlier events in Hermetic history. The third floor is the first reached when traveling through the covenant’s main corridors. In once served as a grand hall and reception room, hosting some of the most lavish banquets and most significant meetings of the Order and House Flambeau. Mostly empty, remaining furnishings lie against the walls, coated with a thick layer of dust. A spiral staircase leads down to the second floor. The exterior juts out from the rock slightly and supports the rest of the tower above it. This level also has the only exterior door, opening to the bridge leading to the Guardian’s Tower. It also serves as barracks for the watch guards. There is another spiral staircase behind a blocked-off door, which leads down to the ground floor and in turn the basement. Most of the ground floor is embedded in the rock, except for that portion of the exterior wall next to the entrance path. This space was once used for storage, though it was filled and forgotten long ago. The staircase leads further down into the basement, which was filled with storage even longer ago and forgotten while the covenant was still thriving. There are two trap doors in the basement, one wood and the other stone. Covered over with junk, they have not been opened in ages. Beneath the wooden door is a cellar, which once contained magical ingredients for lab activities. Much has rotted away, though some still remains and strange magical effects persist. The stone door requires a (combined) Strength of +3 to open, or the use of magic. Underneath is another spiral staircase, carved from stone, which leads down past the catacombs into the Dungeon. Passages in the Dungeon level lead back up to the Catacombs. Further down, the staircase ends abruptly in solid stone. Jade spiral flecks within the rock suggest a magical creation, for this is clearly a sigil effect, not natural stone. The rock is solid though, and completely bars the way further down. The next area can only be reached if this barrier is somehow circumvented. Any Aerie in the vicinity sound an alarm and ferociously attack anyone attempting to pass beyond. Their dire warnings of great and ter''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Ruin Wreathed in Flowers==

''Fond of strange, magical plants, Astella of Jerbiton established a vast garden which yielded vis and herbs of virtue. Astella fled in the early days of the Schism War and the garden has since grown feral, covering much of the surface of ValNegra. Bizarre creepers, strange exotic plants, and weird magical flowers have forced their tendrils deep within the rocks of the fortress walls; destroying the plants would cause many parts of the ruin to simply collapse into a stupendous pile of dust and falling rocks. Several rooms''
''of the covenant contain plants that have colonized the chambers: some potent vis sources, others with strange spell like powers, and a few monstrous plants capable of killing unwary intruders. Astella’s Garden itself still stands, and there the chaos of plant life falls into order, regulated by ancient enchantments. For magi willing to take the risk, studying the garden and wild growth is equivalent to a Significato in Herbam (see Covenants for details), rolling a Stress Die + 8 for the amount of experience gained.''

|}
''rible danger beyond may dissuade some from investigation, but the threat of having to fight your way out of Val-Negra against the whole Aerie Clan if the staircase is disturbed may be more convincing. The narrow shaft winds deep into the mountain, terminating in a small round room of damp stone (about ten paces diameter). The walls are carved in relief sculpture depicting ancient conflicts, and possibly containing clues to the history of Flambeau. A large circle of iron, about five paces diameter, is set into the center of the floor and engraved in the design of a wagon wheel with spokes made of seven swords, (the covenant symbol of Val-Negra). Knocking against it reveals that it is thick and solid, but the dull ring indicates there is space beyond. Magic is unlikely to reveal much information, for the door itself is enchanted to frustrate any such effort unless the spell exceeds level 40 (PeVi40 Masking the Odor of Magic, with a Constant Duration and a Target of Room). This is the Iron Door.''
''The Iron Door''
''The ominous Iron Door has been a fixture of Val-Negra from the beginning. There is no record of who created it, nor how or why. Legend claims it has been here as long as the Aerie and their Shrine, and imprisons powerful demons or other malicious spirits. In truth, it probably originates sometime after Delendos created the Black Tower, and''
''may have been created by him or another magus. But as for how, and what lies behind, there are no certain details on record. What is known is that since the era of Apromor’s Primacy, it has been forbidden to tamper with the Iron Door, and there are warnings of some mysterious danger locked behind it. The Iron Door, magically protected by a powerful ward yet physically easy to open, imprisons the Adulteration of Flambeau the Founder. An Adulteration is a bizarre magical creation resulting from Twilight episodes, as described in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults. House Criamon is aware of these terrible entities and the havoc they''
''can cause. This particular Adulteration is the magical detritus of one Hermetic history’s most powerful magi, and certainly the deadliest. The Adulteration is not in any sense actually Flambeau, who is long dead or passed into Final Twilight. Though it believes it is the Founder, it is naught but a horrific shadow of the great magus who once was. If released, it causes havoc and horror, devastating the countryside driven by pure angst and wrath. It is a crazed, psychopathic magical construct, built from the mistakes, the base desires, and the failings of the Founder.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Shroud of Memories==

''The truth of Val-Negra is simple. Only a few old and powerful magi still living have ever been there or know anything about it. Aware of the danger of the Iron Door, they discourage tourism and are reluctant to share information. Nevertheless, they may relish telling tales of Val-Negra’s golden age, and player characters can thereby charm information from them via clever roleplaying. It is also a daunting task for young magi, and older magi quickly lose interest. But with some effort and wisely applied magic, the players could be the ones who reveal the mysteries of Val-Negra.''

|}

==A Covenant of Ghosts==

''The catacombs house corpses of many ancient magi, and some of their ghosts walk these halls. They are keys to its legacy, but in death their memories are faded and distorted. One of these is a Living Ghost, Archmagus Abaddon of Tytalus. A powerful necromancer, he was one of the two who subdued the Adulteration and resealed the Iron Door. He took the responsibility of guarding it and protecting ValNegra from outsiders, sacrificing himself to maintain his post for eternity. As the last magus of Val-Negra, the Aerie Clan serves him devotedly. It is Abaddon who sustains the Aegis of the Hearth over the covenant, employing the Mystery of Hermetic Empowerment and often binding the ghosts of past members. This knowledge may shock and outrage players initially, but in truth these ghosts volunteer for the effort and need no coercion. Abaddon has several specialized laboratories hidden in the catacombs. Using Lab Texts, he is able to craft the item in a single season, and the spirits he employs can empower the devices two or three times before they must be dismissed. The vis available for his enchantments is such that he can continue this for centuries, for not only was Val-Negra rich, the Haruspex makes sure he is well supplied to maintain his duty. Abaddon also maintains vigil over the Iron Door, making sure the ward is not disrupted and ready to recast it if needed. If you want to flesh out his details, refer to The Mysteries: Revised Edition pages 64–74 for rules concerning''
''Hermetic Spirit Magic and the Living Ghost. Abaddon can be a resource for magi seeking such knowledge, and may possess a few unique mysteries as well. He has many useful spells stored in his Talisman and is free to create other items as desired. Storyguides are encouraged to be creative thinking of ways he might employ his magic, for he is reputed to be one of the most powerful necromancers in the Order of Hermes. Abaddon is intended as a roleplaying challenge, with an idiosyncratic personality that can frustrate and amuse players. He is obsessed with his duty as guardian of the Iron Door, but he is a Tytalus through and through and enjoys befuddling and annoying visitors. His haunt is the whole of Val-Negra, and he prefers to mimic a semblance of life by conjuring and possessing a strong young body (which he dissolves if needed). Direct confrontation with Abaddon should probably be unnecessary. In fact, though he may be initially suspicious of visitors, he is willing to trust them (to an extent) and will grant them Casting Tokens for the Aegis. He may even ask them to help cast a more powerful one over the covenant or request assistance for many varied neglected tasks. Abaddon can also be a hook for a saga revolving around the restoration of Val-Negra. Magic Might: 50 (Mentem) Personality Traits: Eclectic +5, Obsessed +3, Ruthless +2 Reputations: Hermetic Prestige 4, Necromancer 3 (Hermetic)''
''The Grand Library''
''This is a great chamber filled with charred oak tables which once held many books, many of which were burned in the Diedne assault when one immolated herself here. The ashes, if reconstituted, may yield rare and powerful books. However, most that could be salvaged were taken when the covenant was abandoned.''
''Inirelte’s Tower''
''The third largest tower was built by the Prima Inirelte, and wasn’t filled with labs following her death. It was once enchanted as her Talisman using the Mystery of Hermetic Geometry (see The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 92). The tower has three floors. Inirelte’s sanctum, on the top floor, still contains a small library of ancient Hermetic books preserved by powerful magic — and even more powerful magical traps.''
''The Catacombs''
''Beneath Val-Negra lies an extensive and complicated system of caves and catacombs. Here can be found numerous specialized labs, small libraries, a few rooms dedicated to arcane purposes, and other mysterious chambers. Most eerie, however, are the tombs of Val-Negra’s magi and the final resting places of several Primi of House Flambeau. The dry conditions have mummified their mortal remains.''
''The Shrine of the Aerie''
''Deep within the Catacombs lies the Shrine of the Aerie, their most important religious site. The cavern containing it is utterly awe inspiring; crystalline strata flash with color, the roar of a waterfall at one end sounds musical and imposing, and carvings created by generations of Aerie are of intense beauty. The atmosphere is very relaxing, inspiring visitors to sit down and forget their cares (storyguides may require an appropriate Personality Trait roll, but there is no magical effect).''
''The Adulteration of Flambeau (Malignancy, Autumn) Magic Might: 65 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +4, Per +1, Pre +2, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Confidence: 3 (4) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Greater Immunity (Deprivation); Improved Characteristics x3, Great Intelligence, Great Stamina, Tough, Warrior; Blatant Magical Air, Magic Monster, Environmental Magic Condition (Enclosed by the Iron Door), Wrathful (Major); Proud (Minor) Magical Qualities: Focus Power x5, Greater Power x4, Magical Meditation, Major Virtue: Greater Immunity to Fire, No Fatigue, Ritual Power x2, Vis Mastery (Ignem); Improved Abilities x5, Improved Confidence, Improved Power x9, Minor Virtue: Arcane Lore, Minor Virtue: Educated, Minor Virtue: Unaffected by the Gift, Improved Recovery (65) Personality Traits: Hard-Hearted +2, Proud +3, Wrathful +5 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: N/A Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 3 (light sources), Concentration 4 (maintaining), Dead Language: Latin 4 (curses), Folk Ken 4 (sensing lies), Guile 3 (concealing intent), Finesse 5 (Ignem), Artes Liberales 1 (literacy), Living Language: French 5 (Gascony dialect), Living Language: Spanish 5 (Asturian dialect), Magical Meditation 4 (recovery), Magic Lore 4 (Ignem entities), Magic Theory 7 (Ignem), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 4 (early members), Philosophiae 2 (metaphysics), Penetration 6 (Ignem), Pyrenees Lore 4 (caverns), Single Weapon 5 (longsword), Theology: Christian 1 (gospel), Thrown Weapon 4 (javelin), Val-Negra Lore 4 (regio boundaries) Powers Arc of Fiery Ribbons, 0 points, Init 0, Ig''
''nem. As per the spell of the same name, creating a dozen fiery ribbons that fan out in a sixty-degree arc and inflict +10 Damage. CrIg 25 R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Group): Greater Power (25 levels); Improved Power (+3 Init, –3 Might cost, Spell Mastery 3 (Fast Cast, Multi-Cast, Penetration)) Aura of the Avenger, 0 points, Init 0, Ignem. Swaths the Adulteration with a fiery aura, which will burn whatever it touches and inflicts +10 damage to others (the Adulteration being immune to fire). CrIg20 R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Conc); Greater Power (20 levels); Improved Power (–2 Might cost, +2 Init) Aura of Enlightenment, 0 points, Init –1, Ignem. The Adulteration can glow as bright as direct sunlight on a clear day. CrIg10 R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 5, +1 Conc): Greater Power (10 levels); Improved Power (-1 Might cost) Authority of Ignem, 1–10 points, (Ignem), Init 0 (Might points spent). The spirit can recreate any non-ritual Ignem effects no greater than 50th level at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the effect. (Te)Ig 50 R: varies, D: varies, T: varies: Focus Power x4 Ball of Abysmal Flame, 0 points, Init 0, Ignem. Another favorite of the Founder, shooting a ball of flame that inflicts +30 damage to a single target. CrIg 35 R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group. (Base 25, +2 Voice): Greater Power (35 levels); Improved Power (+4 Init, -4 Might cost, Spell Mastery 3 (Fast Cast, Multi-Cast, Penetration)) Eidolon, 0 points, Init –2, Imaginem. Creates an illusionary form visible and audible to material beings. The spirit can create a single form. The image can move and speak as directed, and lasts until the spirit has no further use for it. CrIm15 R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +2 move at''

==Faith & Flame The Aerie Clan==

''For generations, the Aerie have dwelled at Val-Negra. Their peaceful isolation was disrupted by outsiders seeking to plunder the magic of the mountain. Their tales speak of repelling foes ranging from Roman wizards to Carthaginian sorcerers. They were eventually subjugated by a cabal of Sahirs. The wizard Delendar liberated the Aerie and seized Val-Negra. Ever since, they’ve served him and his heirs with dedication. This included the Primi of House Flambeau until the relocation of the domus magna. Now they await the day when a (living) magus will return to claim that inheritance, a day that may never come. Aerie culture is centered around serving as covenfolk. They have forgotten any other way of life, and carry on as if Val-Negra were thriving and active. Aerie folk have names derived from classical Latin, and use that language for any writing if they are literate.''

==Lifecycle of the Aerie==

''The Aerie are mostly indistinguishable from each other; the only measurable differences being age, gender, and rank. The lifecycle of the Aerie serves as a guideline for character creation. Youths (appearing to be 21 or less) are Spring Characters, Adults (22 to 44) are Summer Characters, the Mature (45 to 66) are Autumn, and the Elders (67 to 99) are Winter Characters. The only exceptions are Romulus and Remus, who are always Winter characters no matter what physical age they are. The Aerie also believe in reincarnation, that each generation is reborn from the spirits of their elders. There is no apparent proof of these claims, and the naming rituals of infants held at the shrine have no detectable supernatural effect. The fact that there is no memory of past lives, only tales handed down through the ages, would seem to indicate that this is just superstition. But then there are Romulus and Remus, who seem to remember everything.''
''The Adulteration of Flambeau (Malignancy, Autumn), cont’d command, +1 intricacy): Greater Power (15 levels); Improved Power (–2 Might cost) Curse of Ash; 5 points, (Ignem), Init –10. Imposes the Minor Flaw of Deficient Form (Ignem). If permanent, the cost is removed from the Adulteration’s Might score as well as Might pool. If temporary, Might points spent are recovered when the Flaw is withdrawn. R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual. Ritual Power (non-Hermetic) Curse of Cinders; 5 points, (Ignem), Init –10. Imposes the Minor Flaw of Incompatible Arts (CrIg, ReIg) upon the victim. If permanent, the cost is removed from the Adulteration’s Might score as well as Might pool. If temporary, Might points spent are recovered when the Flaw is withdrawn. R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual. Ritual Power (nonHermetic) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 point, Init –3, Corpus. Allows the spirit to physically manifest until the next sunrise or sunset, as a darkly tanned older man, dressed in a rough, brown woolen robe. The penalties imposed by The Gift still apply though; the spirit is somehow disturbing and stands out, despite appearing very average in every way. Cr(Re)Co 25 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite): Greater Power (25 levels); Improved Power (–3 Might cost) Ghost Touch, variable cost, (Te), Init 0 (– Might points spent). Moves objects not held by another or fastened down. For 1 Might point, a maximum of 5 pounds can be moved; every additional Might point doubles this weight limit. If the item is hurled with force, use the Thrown Weapons ability and it inflicts +5 damage per Might point spent. The spirit can enter combat with an object when using this power. All physical attacks with this power must penetrate Magic Resistance. The power last until the object is released by the''
''spirit. The Adulteration cannot affect items beyond the Iron Door unless the door ceases to function. ReTe25 R: varies, D: varies, T: varies. Focus Power Pilum of Fire, 0 points, (Ignem), Init 0. The Founder’s signature spell, creating a jet of flame that inflicts +15 damage.  CrIg20 R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group. (Base 10, +2 Voice): Greater Power (20 levels); Improved Power (+2 Init, –3 Might cost, Spell Mastery 3 (Fast Casting, Multiple Casting, Penetration)) Presence, 0 points, Init –4, Imaginem. Grants awareness of everything that happens within the innermost regio of Val-Negra, but cannot affect anything beyond the Iron Door unless the Ward ceases to function. InIm35 R: Arc, D: Sun, T: Ind. (Base 2 +4 Arc, +2 Sun, +1 constant effect. +1 non-Hermetic effects): Greater Powers (35 levels); Improved Power (–3 Might cost) Smoke on the Wind, 0 points, Init 0, Ignem. The Adulteration can fly through the air in any direction simply by concentrating. If distracted, control is lost but the power holds the Adulteration aloft indefinitely. ReIg15 R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Constant): Greater Power (15 levels); Improved Power (-2 Might cost, +2 Init) Appearance: If perceived or manifested the Adulteration appears as a deeply tanned, bald man in his late 50’s. If angry, it begins to smolder and smoke and releases bits of ash, bursting into an immolated form when furious and ready to attack. It truly believes it is the Founder Flambeau, trapped within the regio. It usually manifests in human form, but may conceal itself and interact via its Eidolon. It loathes Moors and sahirs, and immediately attacks if confronted by such individuals. Imprisonment confuses it and it strives to escape, though it doesn’t understand how the door prevents it from leaving.''

==Character Guide: Aerie Guard==

''Magic Might: 10 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: unknown (33) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human; Affinity with Single Weapon, Custos, Warrior; Covenant Upbringing, Dutybound, Vow (service to Val-Negra) Qualities and Inferiorities: Natural Appearance; Essential Virtue: Unnoticeable (Minor), Gift of Tongues, Improved Powers (x2), Lesser Powers (x2), Mentem Resistance, Minor Virtue: Arcane Lore, Second Sight, Unaffected by the Gift; Restricted Power, Slow Power, Susceptible to Depravation Personality Traits: Unnoticeable (Dexterity) +3, Loyal +2, Brave –2, Inconspicuous (Presence) –3 Combat: Long Sword & Round Shield: Init +3, Attack +12, Defense +11, Damage +8 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Aerie Language 5 (gossip), Athletics 3 (climb), Awareness 2 (alert), Brawl 4 (grapple), Carouse 1 (drinking songs), Concentration 1 (silent speech), Folk Ken 1 (Aerie Clan), Latin 3 (Hermetic), Magic Lore 1 (effects of magic), Mentem Resistance 1 (Hermetic), Organization Lore: Aerie 1 (ancestors), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (House Flambeau), Penetration 4 (other Aerie), Profession: Soldier 4 (guard duty), Second Sight 4 (spirits), Single Weapon 6 (long sword), Stealth 3 (quiet), Thrown Weapon 4 (spear), Val-Negra Lore 1 (glory days) Powers: Silent Speech of the Aerie Clan, 0 points, Init +1, Mentem. Aerie can mentally communicate with each other using a form of “silent speech.” That is, if they communicate their thoughts “aloud,” they can be heard by any other Aerie within range of their “voice”; that is, how much effort they put into the''
''“volume” of their words, which for them is no different that the effort a man puts into whispering or shouting. This power is Restricted in that communication is only possible with other Aerie, and concerning one another, Penetration is multiplied by 6; +2 Sympathetic Connection for being blood related and knowing each other’s names, +4 for the Arcane Connection they share (this connection is personal and cannot be used by others). The typical Aerie will thus have a Penetration of 40, allowing them to speak with Romulus and Remus. CrMe20 R: Special, D: Conc, T: Ind. (Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +2 Group): Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 cost); Restricted Power: 25xp Penetration Invisibility of Silent Standing, 0 points, Init one round then +0, Imaginem. If standing quietly for more than a few moments, an Aerie totally blends in with her surroundings to the point that she is invisible. The effect is brought upon automatically if the conditions are met, but is broken if she moves or speaks aloud or mentally (remaining mentally silent can be challenging, thus the Duration of Concentration). Aerie elders are able to remain invisible longer and even while moving (optional Variable Power). PeIm5 R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind.  (Base 4, +1 Conc); Lesser Power (5 levels, –1 cost, Slow Power) Equipment: long sword, round shield, partial suit chain mail Encumbrance: 1 Vis: 2 Mentem in brains Appearance: The people of the Aerie Clan appear drab, dull, and unnoticeable. Physically they are nearly identical, with variations due to gender and age. Variations: These statistics represent a typical adult clan member, in this case a soldier of the Black Guard. These statistics can be changed represent any clan member by applying a few quick adjustments. The Minor Flaw of Covenant Upbringing is required, and they each have an Affinity pertaining to their role (a primary Ability). Make adjustments to Characteristics and other Abilities as needed. Grog Level''
''Characters have a Might Score of 10, and Companions have a score of 20 (and additional Qualities). Children and Youth have 240 fewer experience points, and Elders have an additional 360 experience points. Aerie Weaver Woman: (Mature Grog) Virtues & Flaws: Covenfolk; Magic Human; Affinity with Craft: Weaving, Gossip; Covenant Upbringing, Fear: of Outside World (Minor) Characteristics: Per +2, Str –1, Dex +2 Abilities: Aerie Language 5 (gossip), Awareness 1 (details), Brawl 1 (knife), Carouse 1 (drinking songs), Craft: Weaving 5 (tapestries), Concentration 2 (silent speech), Folk Ken 3 (Aerie Clan), Intrigue 3 (gossip), Latin 3 (Hermetic), Magic Lore 2 (effects of magic), Mentem Resistance 1 (Hermetic), Organization Lore: Aerie 2 (ancestors), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (House Flambeau), Penetration 4 (other Aerie), Second Sight 3 (spirits), Stealth 2 (quiet), Val-Negra Lore 2 (interesting sites) Romulus & Remus: The Aerie are always led by a pair of twins named Romulus and Remus. Romulus is Autocrat of the Interior and the dominant of the pair. Remus, Autocrat of the Exterior, is slightly weaker but possesses secret knowledge. Twins are rare amongst the Aerie, and signify a time to transfer knowledge to the next generation. The elder and younger twins conduct a secret ceremony before the Shrine. When it is finished, the young twins emerge with the minds and memories of the elder pair, who have disappeared. Romulus is obsessed with keeping Val-Negra closed off, and Remus wants to reach out to the outside world. They have Might scores of 33 & 32 (respectively), and are more advanced than other Aerie in various other ways. Each has the following additional power: Aura of Rightful Authority, 0 points, Init –2, Mentem. ReMe20 R: Voice, D: Concentration, T: Ind. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration); Lesser Power (20 levels, –4 cost +1 Init; Improved Power: +5 Init)''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
