''This chapter contains a collection of new Virtues and Flaws that are especially suitable for grogs. These new Virtues and Flaws are used in the construction of the grog templates in Chapter 7, and they open up more ways to distinguish the grogs in your saga from one another.''

==New Virtues==

''These new Virtues are available to any character, but may be particularly useful for grogs.''
''Almogavar''
''Free, Social Status The character is a member of a band of mercenaries and raiders, living a life of adventure according to a code of honor and discipline. He shares a bond of solidarity with his fellows, and they can depend on each other’s loyalty. He has Standard Armaments, and may take Martial Abilities. He may choose to be the Adalil at no additional cost, getting an increase in both authority and responsibility. He is supported by his unit, and may not take the Poor Flaw or Wealthy Virtue.''
''Almogaten''
''Minor, Social Status The character is the leader of a''
''band of Almogavars, chosen by his fellows for his skill and experience. He commands a dozen men, and he is responsible for their welfare and prosperity. He has Standard Armaments and may take Martial Abilities. Similar to the Mercenary Captain Virtue, you may choose Wealthy or Poor to represent the fortunes of the almogaten and his soldiers. If he is Poor, he leads only a half-dozen men and he has hit hard times lately. Some of his men only have Inexpensive Armaments, but his main concern is finding the next meal. If he is Wealthy, he leads a company of two dozen men, and can afford to upgrade their armaments. The band might own several horses, and perhaps some herd animals.''
''Craft Guild Training''
''Minor, General This character has received above-average training during his apprenticeship, from a craft master or professional guild. Like Warrior and Educated, this virtue gives a bonus of 50 experience points. These must be spent on any Craft or Profession Abilities, Bargain, or Organization Lore: Guild.''
''Domestic Animal''
''Minor, Social Status, animals only The character is an animal who is the property of a covenant or char''
''acter, and is supplied with food and shelter. He is expected to serve his master in return for this provender, as a mount, beast of burden, hunter, or so forth.''
''Ferocity''
''Minor, General, animals only Like companion and magus characters, this character has Confidence points. However, these Confidence points may only be used in situations where its natural animal ferocity is triggered, such as when defending its den or fighting a natural enemy. Describe a situation which activates the Confidence for its species, and take 3 Confidence points and a Confidence Score of 1 to use when those circumstances are met.''
''Forgettable Face''
''Minor, General Never will this character be the one noticed or picked out of a crowd. Moments after speaking with him, very few people can give an adequate description of him. He often gets away with things because people are not sure it was actually him. If other characters must make a roll to identify him, it is at –3. On the downside, this trait is incompatible with great beauty, charisma, or commanding presence. Virtues like Venus’ Blessing or Inspirational are prohibited, although Curse of Venus could work.''

=New Virtues & Flaws=

''Hermetic Experience''
''Minor, General The character has experience with the magi of the Order of Hermes. Maybe he is currently employed by a covenant, once served in the retinue of a magus, or has had other dealings or disputes with them. In any case, you have an additional 50 experience points to spend on Order of Hermes Lore, Magic Lore, or Latin. You cannot spend other experience points on Magic Lore or Latin unless the character has another Virtue or Flaw permitting this. This Virtue may be taken by any grog or covenfolk, or those who have had an exceptionally close relationship with the Order of Hermes.''
''Jack-of-All-Trades''
''Minor, General The character is capable of turning his hand to almost anything. He suffers no additional botch dice for attempting an Ability roll for an Ability that he has no score in (ArM5, page 62). If it is an asterisked Ability, then he can attempt a roll as if he had a score of zero with three extra botch dice, if and only if''
''he is normally able to take Abilities of that type. Characters without this Virtue cannot even attempt rolls on an asterisked Ability without at least one experience point in it (ArM5, page 62). For example, he must have a Virtue permitting him to take Arcane Abilities to attempt an unskilled Magic Lore roll. Some Abilities are excepted from this Virtue, such as those that are not rolled (such as Parma Magica or Penetration), and all Supernatural Abilities (which require a specific Virtue for each Ability, rather than the type).''
''Master of (Form) Creatures''
''Minor, General The character is able to tame animals and other unintelligent beings that have a Magic Might aligned with a particular Form. During character creation, the character may take Magic Lore, and this Virtue may be taken multiple times, once for each Form. (This Virtue was originally presented in Realms of Power: Magic.)''

[|

==Summary of New Virtues==

''Free, Social Status''
''Almogavar''
''Minor, Social Status''
''Almogaten Domestic Animal Master of Kennels Turb Trained''
''Minor, Supernatural''
''Mythic Farrier''
''Minor, General''
''Craft Guild Training Ferocity Forgettable Face Hermetic Experience Jack-of-All-Trades Master of (Form) Creatures Mild Aging Minor Enchantments Pack Leader / Natural Leader''

|]
''Master of Kennels''
''(Minor, Social Status) The character manages the kennels for a noble patron, and is responsible for the training, breeding, and health of the animals. He employs additional staff appropriate to the size of the kennels. He is a commoner, yet treated with considerable respect by the household. If he has the privilege of riding with the hunt, then he may well be a skilled bowman. He is expected to organize the houndsmen, that is the dog handlers, as well as instructing servants or locals to perform that role. The Master of Kennels may learn Martial Abilities, and has 50 additional experience points at character generation to spend on the Abilities Animal Handling, Etiquette, Hunt, Latin, an appropriate Profession Ability (such as Feuterer or Farrier), and Ride. (Paraphrased from Lords of Men.)''
''Mild Aging''
''Minor, General The character’s aging rolls benefit from a +1 bonus to the Living Conditions Modifier, in addition to whatever his social standing normally offers him (ArM5, page 170). Furthermore, he receives a +3 bonus to rolls to survive an aging crisis. He may be dedicated to living a healthy life, or else have been blessed by some supernatural being.''
''Minor Enchantments''
''Minor, Supernatural The character has one or more items in his possession that have magical powers. These should be designed as Hermetic enchantments, and the total levels of powers in all the items, after adjustment for uses per day and so forth, must be 25 or less. The character may have this Vir''
''tue more than once: add the total levels together, but no single power can be greater than 30th level. If he loses the item or it is destroyed, then it is gone for good.''
''Mythic Farrier''
''Minor, Supernatural The character may use the Touched by (Realm) Virtue (City & Guild, page 71), to a limited extent. He may craft horseshoes with magical effects, using Hermetic guidelines for a single Hermetic Form, chosen at character creation. Animal is a popular choice. The powers of the horseshoes can only affect the horse itself, or its immediate environment. A Terram effect, for instance, to make the ground which the horse touches stable is permissible, but an Auram power to change the weather isn’t. To calculate the Craft Total, add the controlling characteristic to the Craft: Farrier Ability. As this field of work requires wit as well as deftness of hand, either Intelligence or Dexterity may be used; this is a permanent choice which must be made at character creation. This ability is most likely aligned with the Magical or Faerie Realm, but an Infernal farrier is a possibility. You may take this Virtue twice, but no more. Taking the Virtue a second time adds either a second Form to use while enchanting, or allows the character to use it with another Ability, but not both. For variations on this Virtue, simply rename it Mythic (Professional), and replace Craft: Farrier with another Craft Ability. Retain the limit of a single Ability and a single Hermetic Form.''
''Pack Leader / Natural Leader''
''Minor, General The character is a dominant individual with a demeanor that encourag''
''es others to do what she says. Her selfassured manner gives her a +3 bonus in social situations in which she takes the lead; people are more likely to follow her orders or do as she suggests. If she is Gifted, this bonus can temporarily help to overcome the social penalty of The Gift, due to the strength of her domineering personality. This Virtue is known as Pack Leader for animal grogs, or Natural Leader for humans.''
''Turb Trained''
''(Minor, Social Status) This character has grown up at the covenant, been trained to fight in the turb, and picked up a few things from the magi’s trusted servants. At character creation, he is allowed to learn Martial Abilities. He may also learn whichever single dead language the magi speak in addition to his local tongue. His fortunes are tied to the turb, and he is thus prohibited from being Wealthy or Poor.''

==New Flaws==

''Most of these Flaws are Minor Flaws suitable for grog characters.''
''Bound to (Role) Role''
''Minor, Supernatural This character is physically bonded to some form of device, whether through a mystic event, long years of exposure and warping, or the ministrations of an experimental magus. The degree of the bonding is for the troupe to define, but the bonding may be physical, such as a locksmith whose fingers are picks, files, and keys, or mystical, such as a watchman who is confined to his watch tower as though contained by an unbreakable ward.''
''The manner of this bonding determines the kind of life that the character may live. A watchman unable to leave his tower may make it his home, while a coachman who has become part of his coach can not survive for long once separated from it. If separated from the bonded device or place in any way, the character must make deprivation checks (ArM5, page 180) as though deprived of food (i.e., a check every three days). The effects of this are canceled if the character is brought into contact with the device or returned to his bound place, at which point they rebond. This Flaw also includes the effects of the Unaging Virtue, but the character’s apparent age advances in line with their physical age. Role-Bound characters retain the need to sleep and breathe and those not physically bonded to a device, such as those bound to a place, retain their other physical needs. This Flaw may originate from any of the Supernatural Realms: a magical origin might represent the expression of an Essential Trait, a faerie origin could show that the character occupies an archetypal role, ready to play his part in the wider story, while divine and infernal origins may represent eternal punishment on Earth. This Flaw may only be taken by grogs and is suitable for the Warping to a Pattern Minor Site Hook presented in Covenants, page 11.''
''Broken Vessel''
''Minor, Supernatural The character is constantly aware that her supernatural powers may only be temporary. Failures using those abilities represent the ebbing away of the power that sustains them. When a zero is rolled on any Stress Roll (not Simple Roll) against any of her Supernatural Abilities, Powers, or in casting spells, she loses 5 experi''
''ence points from that Ability or an Art involved in the Power or Spell. If the roll then botches, the character automatically loses enough experience points to reduce her score in the affected Art or Ability by one full level (or 5 experience points, whichever is greater). Characters may only take this Flaw if they have at least one Supernatural Ability or Art normally improved through experience points.''
''Careless with (Ability)''
''Minor, General The character is particularly reckless when it comes to a particular Ability, chosen when this Virtue is taken. This Ability should be one that is important to the character, or the troupe may veto the choice of this Flaw. When she fails, she does so dramatically. Whenever she rolls a zero when using the Ability, that zero is''

[|

==Summary of New Flaws==

''Major, Personality''
''Compulsive Lying''
''Major, Story''
''A Deal with the Devil Pagan''
''Major, General''
''The Falling Evil''
''Minor, Social Status''
''Companion Animal''
''Minor, Personality''
''Compulsive Lying Foreign Upbringing Gullible Imagined Folk Tradition  Vulnerability Magical Fascination Pack Mentality Weak Personality''
''Minor, Supernatural''
''Bound to (Role) Role Broken Vessel Curse of Slander Cursed Guile''
''Manifest Sin Necessary (Realm) Aura  for (Ability) (Realm) Stigmatic Susceptible to Warping Viaticarus Warped by Magic''
''Minor, General''
''Careless with (Ability) Craving for Travel Curse of Slander Devoted Parent / Child Fish Out of Water (Terrain) Flashbacks Hallucinations Independent Craftsman Jinxed Lingering Injury Master of None Night Terrors Poor Living Conditions Primitive Equipment Raised in the Gutter Restricted Learning Rolling Stone Savantism Sleep Disorder Stuck in His Ways Uncertain Faith Uncontrollable Strength Uninspirational Unlucky Unspecialized Worthless Abilities''

|]
''treated as a botch. She may need to roll extra botch dice depending on the circumstances, but she always suffer the effects of at least a single botch. This Flaw may be taken more than once; each time, it applies to a different Ability.''
''Companion Animal''
''Minor, Social Status, animals only The character is the Animal Companion of another character (either a player character or a storyguide character) and therefore has little control over his own life. He is largely dependent on his master for food and shelter, and has an additional Personality Trait of “Loyal to Master” which represents this bond. Among people who know his master, the character is treated better than he would be, perhaps as that person’s pet or bodyguard. Others most likely treat him as a brute or a dumb beast.''
''Compulsive Lying''
''Minor or Major, Personality Telling the truth is really hard for this character. This does not apply in situations where the answer is evident and any lie would be transparent; he does not claim that the sky is green under normal conditions. However, when he cannot be immediately caught out, he finds it hard to avoid embellishing stories, or simply making them up. Perhaps he wants to make himself look good, perhaps he wants to downplay his own part in a conflict, or perhaps he just loves the power of confusing people. As a Minor Flaw, this is just a tendency, and the character can make himself tell the truth if it really matters. If taken as a Major Flaw, the character cannot resist embellishing a story, no matter what the circumstances. At best, he might manage to keep the alterations minor.''
''Craving for Travel''
''Minor, General The character suffers from feelings of loneliness, boredom, and depression if he does not expose himself to new experiences. He can stave off the boredom for a while, but if he remain in one place for more than a season, he suffers a –1 penalty to all rolls and totals until he experiences a change in scene. This penalty rises to –3 after a year of boredom. This character is probably the first to volunteer for a mission beyond the covenant gates, and may even spend part of each year in a different location such as the nearby wood. This Flaw might seem to make the character unsuitable for life at a covenant, so you should decide what it is at the covenant that means he keeps coming back. Perhaps it is the love of his life, the camaraderie, or perhaps just the feeling that he fits in here.''
''Curse of Slander''
''Minor, General or Supernatural Wherever he stays, unpleasant rumors and ill-favored stories about this character begin to spread within a short time. This can be due to bad luck, or it could be something supernatural, like a curse. The slander is centered on one specific section of mundane society — the nobility, the church, guilds, peasants — and it seriously hampers his working life. After staying one season in an area, he gains a bad Reputation at level 1, usually a Local Reputation. He gains one point toward raising the Reputation in each further season, or more if he is involved in disturbing or strange events. Truly remarkable deeds can halt the increase for one season, but they will be forgotten come next season. At a covenant, people are used to strange things and deviant behavior. The Reputation is gained''
''and increases in intervals of years rather than seasons, giving the poor victim more time before he becomes completely shunned. If the character leaves an area, the Reputation stops increasing, and may even fall, at the troupe’s discretion.''
''Cursed Guile''
''Minor, Supernatural This is the Flaw for “the boy who cried wolf,” and probably results from Infernal influence. The character has three extra botch dice when using Guile. More importantly, the character is rarely believed, even when he is being honest. He must make a Communication + Guile roll against an Ease Factor of 9 in order to be believed when he tells the truth at important moments. For example, if the character is returning from a scouting mission, and you fail his Guile roll when he reports back, the maga may assume that he has been deficient in his duties; perhaps she thinks that he never went scouting at all, but instead went to the nearest town to entertain himself. This character may prefer the company of animals to that of people, as they do not respond to subterfuge.''
''A Deal with the Devil''
''Major, Story The character has sold his soul to the devil and now find himself destined to infernal damnation. This Flaw includes the effects of Plagued By Supernatural Entity as Hell’s agents goad and cajole the character, reminding him of the bargain he made and tempting him with offers of possible release in return for just one more small service. The character is called upon to undertake an inherently sinful action, but the reward is always snatched away on some technicality of the agreement or simply because''
''of the duplicitous nature of the infernal. Note that the character can, in fact, repent and get out of the deal by God’s grace, but the repentance must be genuine, and the forces of Hell will try to stop it, thus generating stories that way.''
''Devoted Parent/Child''
''Minor, General The character is extremely attached to a parent or child. Where he goes, she goes also. Separation of more than a day will cause anxiety, and will give a –1 penalty to all rolls due to stress.''
''The Falling Evil''
''Major, General The character occasionally suffers convulsions and blackouts. Convulsions occur randomly and infrequently; for any given event, the storyguide should secretly roll a stress die, and if the result is 9 or more then a convulsion will occur at some point during that event, as chosen by the storyguide. This spasm causes random movements and hallucinations, leaving the character temporarily Incapacitated. She collapses to the ground and twitches, and you can make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9 every round; success means that the convulsion ends, although the character is reduced to the Dazed Fatigue level following a fit. The Falling Evil is usually caused by possession by demons (Art & Academe, page 48), but that form of the illness is usually temporary in nature. The character does not seem to have a disease, and cannot naturally recover from this affliction. It may be that it stems from a different source. In Ancient Greece and Rome, it was called the “divine illness,” as it was believed that the gods spoke to those who had such fits.''
''Flashbacks''
''Minor, General When engaged in combat, or a similar violent and tense situation, the stress might trigger a flashback to the horrors of past battles, which left this character mentally scarred. The hallucinations seem so real that it is hard to avoid reacting to them. When an event appropriate for the Flashbacks occurs, roll a stress die against an Ease Factor of 9. On a failure, the character panics and revert to his past nightmares. At the storyguide’s discretion,''
''modifiers from –1 to –5 could apply, for things like full-scale battle, fires, or stampeding animals. In addition, add or subtract any relevant Personality Traits, depending on whether they might lessen or worsen the effects of this Flaw. Bear in mind that positive traits like loyal, reliable, law-abiding, or calm should be helpful in avoiding this affliction. Similarly, negative traits like selfish, angry, or corrupt subtract from the roll, making him more likely to succumb. Often, his actions hurt, embarrass, or offend comrades, employ''
''ers, or other important people, and might have social repercussions. On a botch, he’ll get into real trouble — it could result in someone being seriously hurt or killed, in valuables being broken or in him failing in his duty at a critical time. For magi, this Flaw should not involve flashbacks to Twilight episodes, spell botches or laboratory disasters. Since most of these situations won’t get worse by applying a penalty to the rest of the scene, it won’t be enough of a Flaw. But magi can be affected by combat, house fires, or cave-ins just as much as other character types.''
''Fish Out of Water (Terrain)''
''Minor, General This character has an affinity with one type of terrain, whether this is at sea, in the woods, the rolling hills, or in the urban landscape of towns and cities, and feels uncomfortable and awkward when away from where he wants to be. The character suffers a –1 penalty to all stress rolls taken outside of their favored terrain and also rolls one more botch dice than normal in those situations. Appropriate areas may be Cities & Towns, Villages, Rivers, The Sea, Mountains, Woodland, Desert, etc. This Flaw may only be taken once, because taking it more than once makes it less serious, rather than more.''
''Foreign Upbringing''
''Minor, Personality This Flaw is somewhat similar to Covenant Upbringing, but means that the character is a foreigner and comes from a remote or isolated corner of Mythic Europe. He appears and sound nothing like the locals, has odd customs, habits, and religion (although he need not be pagan), and is quite confused by local society. However,''
''he is not an Outsider, and has been accepted — for the most part. His Native Language is one foreign to the saga, and he needs to learn another language in order to communicate with the rest of the turb. The maximum scores for locality-dependent Abilities like Language, Area Lore, or Organization Lore, as well as some social Abilities, are half (round up) that which his age normally allows.''
''Gullible''
''Minor, Personality There is one born every minute — and it is this character! He is an easy victim of ruses, stories and teasing lies. People lying to him get a bonus to their Guile rolls of +1 to +3. Depending on how bright or sharp-witted he is, he might not fall for obvious lies, denials of things that are evident or common knowledge. However, he most likely falls for lies that are even remotely plausible, and if he has no idea whether or not something is true, he is almost certain to believe it. This could, for instance, be whether or not there are mischievous faeries under the bridge. If you really want the character to not fall for something, make an Intelligence + Folk Ken Stress roll against an Ease Factor equal to the Communication + Guile roll of the person telling the tall tale. Recommended modifiers to the Ease Factor are +0 for obvious lies (ones that someone without the Flaw would certainly not believe), +6 for outlandish tales and +9 for things which could be true, or lies told by someone in authority, or who has expert knowledge of the subject at hand.''
''Hallucinations''
''Minor, General The character is afflicted by vivid hallucinations which seem to be true''
''visions, but rather than coming from a higher power, they are figments of her imagination and fantasy. She finds these visions particularly troublesome, and seeks meaning in them where there is none to be had. Coincidence might mean that some part of her hallucinations comes to pass, which only furthers her belief that there is meaning within them. If the character also has the Visions Flaw, then some of her visions are true, but most of them are meaningless jumbles of nonsense generated from within her mind.''
''Imagined Folk Tradition Vulnerability''
''Minor, Personality Although this flaw closely resembles a Delusion, Imagined Folk Tradition Vulnerability has other game mechanical effects as well. This character utterly and sincerely believes that he has been touched by the fay, and that they have granted him his special skills — whether or not any such exist. So, naturally, he is convinced that he is as vulnerable to traditional wards and folk magic as the fey. Whenever there is talk about such folk remedies, or people around him try to perform them, he does his best to dissuade them. If he can get away with it, he removes or sabotage such wards; for instance, he sneaks around at night and removes any warding marks or materials at doorways. Finally, he exhibits strange behavior around active wards or ritualistic actions. This could be refusing to shake hands with a person right after they have drawn the sign of the cross, or flinching whenever salt is flung over someone’s shoulder. On the plus side, this Flaw allows the character to purchase a score of 1 (but no more) in Faerie Lore at character creation. This is because he needs a rudimentary knowledge of the fay and the wards against them in order to be able to act''
''this way. Without such knowledge, his behavior is based on what he thinks such wards might be.''
''Independent Craftsman''
''Minor, General This character has his own way of working and doesn’t like other people getting in his way. This character always treats his Leadership and Craft or Profession Abilities as three levels lower when working with others on a given task. For Craftsmen, this means that whether he is working as an assistant or working with assistants his Craft Ability has a penalty of –3. This affects the number of assistants he can employ in the workshop and the benefit that he provides when working as an assistant.''
''Jinxed''
''Minor, General The character is a magnet for any bad luck. He is not personally the cause of the bad luck, and so need not roll any extra botch dice or suffer any penalty to die rolls. However, whenever chance determines who will be affected by misfortune, the odds are biased against him to be the one affected. For example, if it has been determined that a rope used for climbing will break, it is more likely to do so when the jinxed character makes the climb. If determining when the bandits will attack the camp at night, it is more likely to happen right at the moment when the character is relieving himself. If the storyguide is rolling dice to determine the target of a random event, a jinxed character should be affected half of the time, and his comrades between them the other half. His bad luck does not tend to spill over onto others; in fact, other characters may prefer to keep him around to deflect any bad luck from themselves.''
''Lingering Injury''
''Minor, General The character suffers from an old injury that won’t heal properly, resulting in a –1 penalty to all rolls involving physical activity. If he botches a physical action, he aggravates the injury and the penalty becomes –3 (recovery from aggravation is as for a Light Wound). This condition worsens with age, so multiply whatever the penalty is by 1 + (Decrepitude Score).''
''Magical Fascination''
''Minor, Personality This character is intensely interested in supernatural and magical phenomena, to the exclusion of all other motivations. It is as if his life is hollow and drab without these experiences. He will involve himself in any supernatural investigation, social encounter, or confrontation. He must try and find out as much as he can about it, and he is curious and has busy hands, definitely trying to take souvenirs. To represent the scraps of knowledge he has, he is allowed to have a score of 1 (but no more) in either Magic or Faerie Lore at character creation. But most of the time, he is filling in the blanks himself and making it up as he goes along, enthusiastically.''
''Manifest Sin''
''Minor, Supernatural A sin or crime this character has committed in the past stains his spirit and is manifest to those who can perceive things hidden to mortal senses. Characters with Second Sight, Sense Holiness & Unholiness, or similar Supernatural Powers or Abilities perceive the sin through one or more senses. See ArM5, page 67, for these Abilities.''
''The manifestation of the sin or crime should be chosen by you and the storyguide together, and should always be appropriate to the sin or crime in question. For instance, the perpetrator of a violent crime may appear to have blood on his hands, or be accompanied by the sobbing of his victim, while lustful sins may be seen to play across the sinner’s leering face. In addition, the character suffer a –1 penalty to all social interaction rolls or totals as the intangible aura of their past sins affects those with whom they interact. While his spirit is tainted and the manifestation will always be with him, he may spend a Faith Point, including Faith Points gained from taking Holy Communion and from relics, to banish the manifestation for Sun duration. While banished, the sin cannot be perceived and the social penalty is also suspended. This Flaw originates from either the Divine or the Infernal Realm, as a mark of punishment, penitence, or temptation.''
''Master of None''
''Minor, General Either by choice or circumstance, this character never seems to be able to stick at a task or job for longer than a season, usually following the work as it moves through the year. As a result, this character can’t apply any experience points earned to an Ability or Art that they have already applied experience points to this year. Where they can’t be applied to a different Ability or Art, the experience points are lost. Experience points gained through other virtues, such as Secondary Insight, are unaffected and may be applied normally.''
''Necessary (Realm) Aura for (Ability)''
''Minor, Supernatural Due to some connection with a given supernatural realm, the absence of a given supernatural aura has a pronounced effect upon the character’s ability to focus on certain tasks. The character has a –3 penalty to any totals he generates with a particular Ability when not in the right aura. A character may take this Flaw once for any particular Ability. The chosen Ability should be one which the character is likely to use frequently, such as in service to the covenant or to support his day-to-day activities. When applied to Craft or Profession Abilities, this Flaw also reduces the character’s capability to support himself by reducing the number of Labor Points he accumulates each season when not working within the appropriate aura.''
''Troupes should think carefully about how a character would be limited by taking Magic (which covers most covenants) or Dominion (which covers most other human settlements) aura. If the character would not be limited, the Flaw should not be allowed.''
''Night Terrors''
''Minor, General This character is plagued far too often by horrible nightmares and fits of screaming in his sleep. The character must make a Stress Roll against an Ease Factor of 9 in order to avoid suffering terrors. The storyguide may call for modifiers of –1 to –3 if he has faced eerie or terrifying events recently, like meeting a demon or battling the undead. Suffering from terrors means that the character wakes up often and in''
''a panic during the night. Situations might occur where he overreacts or reacts in unfortunate ways, if forced awake during such nights. The morning leaves him with a Long Term Fatigue Level lost. These Long Term Fatigue Levels are cumulative, so several bad nights leave him in bad shape. Subtract the character’s Fatigue penalty from the Ease Factor to avoid night terrors, to represent how a truly exhausted victim will at some point sleep through the nightmares due to sheer exhaustion. If a night of terrors renders the character Unconscious, he slips into deep, dreamless sleep. He sleeps for an entire day and night, and wakes up at Winded, ending the string of Night Terrors. A character with this Flaw may not also take the Sleep Disorder Flaw This Flaw normally makes seasonal Laboratory work impossible, and so is not suitable for magi.''
''Pack Mentality''
''Minor, Personality The character is a follower, not a leader. He rarely takes the initiative, but is usually happy to follow the direction of a forthright and decisive person. If he finds a leader, he tends to stick with him.''
''Pagan''
''Major, Story Your character is a devout pagan, which disturbs powerful people in Mythic Europe. He avoids churchmen, and cannot pass as a Christian because he believes to do so will invite retribution from his gods. He may have either Magic Lore or Faerie Lore, depending on precisely who he worships. This is not a Flaw in those parts of the Novgorod Tribunal where pagans are still common. Note that you do not need this Flaw''
''to have a pagan character; only if he refuses to deny his pagan nature does this generate stories. Grogs may not take Major Story Flaws. This Virtue is repeated here to aid the design of companions. It is not compulsory for time-lost characters (see Chapter 7, Grog Templates), but suits many. A fuller description appears in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 109.''
''Poor Living Conditions''
''Minor, General Either because of this character’s own poor living conditions, or those of people he is in frequent contact with, he is more susceptible to the rigors of daily life. The character has an additional –1 Living Conditions Modifier. This is cumulative with the character’s base Living Conditions Modifier, as per ArM5, page 170.''
''Primitive Equipment''
''Minor, General The character is capable of using only the simplest tools and equipment. Perhaps her training was incomplete, or she has been affected by some sort of curse, or maybe she originates from a less technologically-capable society and refuses to adapt. She is restricted to Inexpensive weapons and armor only, regardless of what is made available to her. If forced by order or necessity to use other equipment, her Burden is one point higher when she uses anything other than Inexpensive weapons, and one point higher when she uses anything other than Inexpensive armor. She suffers a –1 penalty to Attack and Defense if using inappropriate weapons, and a –1 penalty to Initiative and Protection if using inappropriate armor. If the character works as a laborer or craftsman, she uses simple tools''
''and primitive procedures. Unless working with simple tasks, the base Craft Value (see City & Guild, page 67) is raised by 1–3 at the storyguide’s discretion, based on complexity. Further, her workshop may not be improved with regards to Innovation (City & Guild, page 65). Other Profession Abilities dependent on tools and equipment suffer a similar penalty for complex tasks. You should only take this Flaw if the character belongs to a profession that relies heavily on equipment, such as a smith, mason, or soldier.''
''Raised in the Gutter''
''Minor, General This character was raised on the margins of society. She is able to use her social abilities normally with those of the lower and middle classes, but doesn’t know how to act among her “betters.” When using Charm or Guile, it is obvious that she’s from the bad part of town, and this makes convincing people to do what she wants harder (–3 on rolls). She can use Etiquette normally if she’s holding her social place (which means staying silent and doing exactly what she’s told) but suffers a –3 penalty if she tries to go beyond this.''
''(Realm) Stigmatic''
''Minor, Supernatural The character occasionally manifests physical phenomena in the presence of supernatural powers. Pick one of the four Realms of Power; whenever he enters an aura of strength 4 or more aligned to that realm, or is affected by a power greater than fourth magnitude (20th level) from that realm, he suffers from the stigmata. Every individual suffers from stigmata differently, but the most common variants are dark marks appearing on the skin, blood''
''issuing from orifices, spontaneous eruption of wounds, minor twisting of the limbs, or the acquisition of minor animal features. Whenever they manifest, the character loses a Long-Term Fatigue level that he cannot recover while he remains under the influence of that Realm. When he recovers the Fatigue level, the stigmata fades. If he ever takes a Warping point from exposure to his sensitive Realm, his stigmata erupt so violently that he takes a Light Wound as well as Fatigue, and the stigmata remain until he recovers from this wound.''
''Restricted Learning''
''Minor, General The character is incapable of learning new things without assistance. Pick five Abilities at character creation; you can only apply experience points to these Abilities. The character cannot learn any new Abilities on her own; she must receive experience points from Teaching or Training to develop a new Ability or to improve one that is not part of the initial five. Furthermore, she cannot use an Ability with no score, even if it can normally be used untrained. Any Supernatural Abilities from Virtues she possesses are added to the list of Abilities to which she can apply experience points. All mundane animals are required to take this Flaw.''
''Rolling Stone''
''Minor, General The rolling stone gathers no moss, and neither does this character. She has moved from village to village so often that she finds it difficult to create attachments in the community. All social rolls have a –1 penalty within the community.''
''Savantism''
''Minor, General The character’s family was cursed by faeries; his mother tripped over a hare while pregnant with him; or he was born on horseback. He is physically capable, but simple-minded and slow-witted. He has half the standard experience points at character generation, all future Advancement Totals are halved, and he may not begin with an Ability above 3. However, with one favored Ability, he is exceptionally gifted. This Ability can improve normally, is limited to a score of 6 as a starting character, and has +3 to all rolls related to its specialization rather than just +1. The Ability must be something he could reasonably have access to learn; there would need to be an extraordinary background story for a savant who is a master of the longsword! Most savants will be like the tragic fool whose precocious skill with horses has gone forever unnoticed, but some may have more esoteric talents. If the favored Ability requires a Virtue, such as Academic or Martial Abilities, then he must have that Virtue as normal; a mathematical savant would need Educated to learn Artes Liberales. Magi may well desire the company of certain specialists: a Jerbiton maga would appreciate an artistic savant, for example. Similarly, a Failed Apprentice may have been left stricken with savantism when his Gift abandoned him, but he retained remarkable clarity on the Code of Hermes, becoming a valued clerk to a Quaesitor.''
''Sleep Disorder''
''Minor, General More often than not, this character is unable to sleep soundly during the night. The resulting deprivation means that he is likely to nod off in periods of quiet and boredom. When''
''the character is alone, comfortable, bored, or otherwise at risk of falling asleep, he needs to make a suitable Personality roll to avoid nodding off. Loyal, Reliable, and Lazy (for a penalty in the last case) are all appropriate. The character’s current Fatigue penalty applies to the roll. Regardless of whether he manages to stay awake, the following night you must make a stress roll (no botch) against an Ease Factor of 6 to see if the character sleeps well. Every night he has slept poorly, he loses a Long Term Fatigue Level. Continue this until he sleeps soundly for a whole night. Once he has lost 3 Long Term Fatigue Levels, he automatically sleeps through the night, due to sheer exhaustion. This Flaw is not compatible with the Night Terrors Flaw.''
''Stuck in His Ways''
''Minor, General Having come from a covenant, this character knows how things must be done to best serve the needs of covenfolk and magi alike. Only, his new home does things differently. And they’re wrong. When making Stress Rolls against his Profession Abilities or any Ability concerning his new covenant, such as Leadership or Folk Ken, this character uses the lower of that Ability score and his current Covenant Lore Ability for his current covenant. Note that bonuses from Puissance or other Virtues still apply to the roll. This Flaw can also be applied to organizations other than covenants, such as abbeys, universities, guilds, or churches.''
''Susceptible to Warping''
''Minor, Supernatural Your character’s constant exposure to magic at the side of his magus has''
''made him more susceptible to supernatural Warping than he might otherwise be. In any year in which the character gains a Warping Point from any Realm or any source (including Longevity Rituals, living within an aura, and powerful supernatural effects), the character gains one additional Warping Point associated with that same Realm. This means that if he gains a single Warping Point from each Realm in a year, he gains four additional Warping Points, one from each Realm, at the end of that year. These additional points do not contribute to Wizard’s Twilight or to other events caused by the acquisition of Warping Points as they accrete slowly over the course of the year.''
''Uncertain Faith''
''Minor, General Whether through a flaw in the character’s understanding of doctrine, a moral turmoil, the disheartening absolution of repeated sins, or exposure to conflicting philosophies, he finds it hard to fully express devotion to his faith. Some element of doubt stands between him and the Divine, and all rolls for holy influence, tempering an aura, invoking God’s aid, or invoking a saint or baraka (see Realms of Power: The Divine) suffer a –3 penalty. The character also has an “Uncertain Faith” Personality Trait at +1 that describes this conflict or doubt, which always provides demons with an opportunity to sow further doubt through their Obsession power (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31). Supernatural Abilities originating from the Divine, including Methods and Powers, are not penalized. This Flaw is not compatible with the True Faith Virtue.''
''Uncontrollable Strength''
''Minor, General This character doesn’t know his own strength, and at times he has trouble controlling it. This Flaw may not be taken if the character’s Strength is below 0. Whenever he handles delicate or fragile objects, whenever care must be taken to knock somebody out gently, and so on, he risks overdoing it, severely. The character must make a stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to avoid using too much power and causing damage of some kind. In addition to this, any Strength Stress Roll uses one extra botch die.''
''Uninspirational''
''Minor, General This character is bland, boring, and simple, with almost no chance of ever getting noticed or enticing anyone. His Presence and Communication may not be greater than 0. Any use of Abilities like Leadership, Charm, Intrigue, Etiquette or similar — as well as Personality Rolls — to stir or impress people suffers a –3 penalty.''
''Unlucky''
''Minor, General The character is exceptionally unlucky, and is frequently dealt a bad hand by the forces of chance. He gets a –1 to –3 penalty (at storyguide’s discretion) on rolls in situations based on luck rather than skill or talent, depending on how much luck is involved. It would be wise for him not to take part in games of chance.''
''Unspecialized''
''Minor, General The character does not have any specialties for any of her Abilities.''
''Viaticarus''
''Minor, Supernatural At some point in the character’s past, he was at death’s door, and as a result a priest performed the sacrament of Extreme Unction. The purpose of this sacrament was to remit him of all venial sins, and prepare him for the journey beyond (the viaticum); but against all expectations, he survived. This leaves him in a spiritual no-man’s land, not one of the dead, but neither wholly of the living. Because of this, he is immune to the temptations of demons, and therefore cannot be affected by their Obsession power; he simply does not register to them as a soul in need of corruption. However, his skin has an unusual pallor, and his eyes are sunken. People may smell a charnel odor about him. These effects are subtle at first, but as he ages, he gradually comes to resemble a corpse more and more, resulting in a penalty to all social interaction rolls equal to his Decrepitude score. He has difficulty crossing thresholds where unquiet spirits are not welcome; if a person with a (Realm) Lore of 1 or more has set up a traditional ward, such as a line of salt or an iron nail laid on the lintel, then he cannot enter the protected building or area. Further, although he does not have a Might score, he is repulsed by any magical warding that can keep out a creature with a Might score aligned to Corpus or Mentem (including the Aegis of the Hearth), regardless of its level or Penetration. However, both types of exclusion can be negated if he is invited to cross by the person who established the ward, or someone who lives within. He can still touch individuals with Magic Resistance, since he has no active power around him. If the character’s status is known in the community in which he lives, he should take the Outcast Social Status Flaw.''
''Warped by Magic''
''Minor, Supernatural The character’s adventures have exposed him to powerful magical forces that have left a mark on him. He has five Warping Points and a Warping Score of 1, including a Minor Flaw (which is not balanced by a Virtue) that somehow reflects the source of the Warping. His encounters allow you to spend experience points on Magic Lore during character creation. A magus may take this flaw to represent Warping gained before his apprenticeship. With the permission of the troupe, this Flaw may be modified to represent Warping from other Realms.''
''Weak Personality''
''Minor, Personality This character doesn’t feel strongly for or against anything and lacks the unique traits most people have to make them really stand out. Consequently, all Personality Traits must be between +1 and –1. When making personality rolls, treat any roll above 6 as merely 6. The character may have no other Personality Flaws or Virtues or Flaws that grant Personality Traits. Depending on the personality of the observer, he may seem a complete pushover with no opinion of his own, insensitive because he rarely shows strong emotion, or simply lacking in initiative to those seeking leadership and guidance. These elements result in a –1 or worse (at the Storyguide’s discretion) modifier in most social situations for obviously being a cold fish. Finally, he will never be known for his great loyalty or pious nature, and will have a hard time winning respect or getting promoted. His lack of enthusiasm for the Church in particular might be viewed as a lack of faith. On the plus side, he might occasion''
''ally be seen in a positive light since he never disagrees strongly.''
''Worthless Abilities''
''Minor, General A time-lost character (see Chapter''
''7: Grog Templates) must have about 30 experience points that have been rendered valueless by her shift in time. For example, she may have Area Lore of 3 for a city that no longer exists, or her Etiquette score may have been rendered useless by changing social structures. Troupes may per''
''mit companions to purchase this Flaw multiple times. In the example of the legionaries given in the Time-lost Witnesses template (see Chapter 7), their wasted ability is their Organization Lore. The army to which it refers no longer exists.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
