''Crossing the great River Elbe from the lowlands to the west, one enters the northeastern reaches of Germany, stretching as far as the mighty River Oder. Here, civilization gradually gives way to a wild empty land of lakes and forests, roamed by Werwölfe (werewolves), Hexen (witches), and Hünen (giants), where the dying remnants of pagan beliefs still linger in crumbling Slavic temples. Christianity was ﬁrst established in the Eastern Marches around the 10th century, from the bordering missionary-bishoprics such as Magdeburg and Merseburg. Pagan Slavs were converted, and the centuries since have seen sporadic warfare with them, interspersed with periods of peace and marriage into Slavic families. An inﬂux of German colonists and merchants has ﬁrmly established the German language and culture — Meissen, to the southwest, is now fully German, although Sorbs (Wends) form the great majority in Lusatia, to the southeast. Rügen and Pomerania to the north are populated by a mixture of Sorbs and Germans, with Danish overlords. With plenty of space for colonization, there is generally a lack of rivalry among rulers, at least at the local level. Almost all the pagan and magical sites of the Slavs in the southern of the Marches have long-since been eradicated, to a greater extent than in Pomerania to the north. Except for Crintera on Rügen, the Rhine Tribunal does not have a very robust presence in the Eastern Marches, although it maintains a vigorous claim over them. Indeed, it would like to extend its territory further eastwards into Polish lands, encroaching on the Novgorod Tribunal.''

==The Baltic Sea==

''For a few months every winter, shipping and trade across the Baltic Sea ceas''
''es entirely. A great chill descends from the ultimate north, and covers the sea with a layer of frost. Early each spring, a special ritual must be performed to thaw the ice and break the hold of the Queen of Winter over the land. This ritual is conducted at Arkona (see below), and is currently undertaken by Falke, Prima of House Bjornaer, in the form of an ancient ritual spell.''

==Heorot==

''The covenant of Heorot is not currently a member of the Rhine Tribunal, but it hopes to have its membership approved at the next Rhine meeting in 1221. This plan is not without controversy; Heorot is sited on the island of Zealand, which is part of the kingdom of Denmark, and therefore clearly within the territory that traditionally forms part of the Novgorod Tribunal. However, because of the perceived threat of the “Order of Odin” (see Chapter 11: Rhine Sagas, Wind, Wave, and Ice), the Order has not yet established a covenant in Norse lands that has lasted long enough to attend a Tribunal meeting; thus the territory remains a gray area.''
''Many in the Rhine Tribunal greet Heorot’s move with glee. They have long disputed the eastern border of the Tribunal with the Novgorod Tribunal; and to “steal territory” from them is the ultimate in one-upmanship. Novgorod is currently unaware of the plans of Heorot — that Tribunal has only a small number of covenants, and with the exception of one in Poland, they are all over a thousand miles from Zealand. Opposition towards Heorot comes from one main quarter: Crintera. Zealand is very close to Rügen, and the domus magna of House Bjornaer is concerned that they will clash with them over vis sources. Waddenzee is not protesting — Heorot will provide them with more victims, and the covenant is dedicated to the major interest of the Ash Gild. Oculus Septentrionalis is the other covenant in the region, and as they are sponsoring Heorot, it is likely that they have worked out some agreement with them beforehand. All the magi of the putative covenant of Heorot originate in the Rhine Tribunal, and their stated aim is that originally held by Oculus Septentrionalis — to learn what they can about the Order of Odin. Unlike that covenant, the magi of Heorot have the skills and interests to achieve this goal. They have occupied the site of the hall of Hrothgar, former king of the Danes, who was terrorized by a troll called Grendel before the hero Beowulf slew him. Unsurprisingly, the covenant is plagued by Grendel’s kin, who still haunt the bogs of Zealand.''

==Magi==


===Signum Irruptus, follower of Criamon===

''Age: 53 (Master)''

=The Eastern Marches=

''Personality Traits: Brave +3, Obsessed +3, Mindful of Danger –2''
''The leader of the covenant, Signum Irruptus is fascinated with the trolls, who he believes to be descended from degenerate gods. This obsession has so far lead to the death of 14 grogs and the loss of Signum’s own left arm, yet nevertheless he still pursues his dangerous studies.''

===Theoderich of Augsburg, follower of Jerbiton===

''Age: 37 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Morbid +3, Inquistive +2, Laconic +1''
''Formerly a member of Oculus Septentrionalis, Theoderich is a necromancer and a historian, who raises the ghosts of dead men to interrogate them about the past. Much to his chagrin, he has not found the remains of either King Hrothgar or Beowulf.''

===Pancrestis Filius Occultes, follower of Bonisagus===

''Age: 28 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Fearful of Wilderness +2, Decisive –2''
''This young magus is keen to meet with a Norse wizard and learn whatever he can about their magic. He has both a famous master and also a powerful mentor, Archmage Philippus Niger (see Chapter 6: The Black Forest, Durenmar), who has instilled in him the urgent need to reveal these secrets to the Order. However, Pancrestis has a deep-abiding fear of the wilderness, and has yet to penetrate as far as the pagan regions of Scandinavia.''

==Rügen==

''The island of Rügen is the largest in Germany, stretching 20 miles across. Apart from the northern and eastern extremities it is a landscape of low-lying grassland and heathland, surrounded by long beaches and swampy inlets. The''
''peninsulas of Jasmund and Mönchgut are hillier and partially forested. The largest forest, called Stubnitz, is on Jasmund, which contains the covenant of Crintera, ending abruptly with the dramatic chalk cliffs called the Stubbenkammer. Wittow, the northernmost peninsula, is windswept and exposed. The narrow 10-mile-long island of Hedinsey to the west is deserted heathland, with a chain of tiny hills. The island is named after a former Norwegian king, Hedin, who fought a battle on the island to win his bride and his fortune. Rügen is sparsely populated, with Bergen as the only town of any size. There are a number of small villages and hamlets scattered around the island, including farmsteads in the western part of the island, and a few ﬁshing villages in the east, but nothing that would qualify as a port. The Mönchgut peninsula has only recently gained that name, as cultivation for agriculture by monks has just begun there. The majority of islanders are of Slavic descent. Christianity is newly come to the island, arriving with the Danish king. The only churches of any signiﬁcance are the Marienkirche in Bergen and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Awake, Svantovit!==

''A white horse is needed to perform a Great Ritual to Svantovit, but none can be found on the island, as all horses have been co-opted by the Danes. If the characters bring a white horse to the island, the old priest will convince his grandson to steal it, and gather together their scant few worshippers for a ceremony. This will reawaken the volkhv’s connection with his deity, and a subsequent display of power will convert the doubting subpriest into a zealous believer. He will take on the role of a pagan “messiah,” determined to turn the island back to the worship of Svantovit. Of course, should a group of magi witness this rite, they may see it in a wholly different light, likely as not believing it to be demonic.''

|}
''the Pfarrkirche in Altenkirchen, although there are plans to build one in Sagard, which is only ﬁve miles from the site of Crintera. In the wilder places of the island, the Forest Brothers Rugevit, Porevit, and Porenitz are still worshiped. These gods represent the Rowan, the Beech, and the Larch respectively. Their few remaining priests (called volkhvy) are exclusively male, and virtually all have the Ways of the Forest Virtue and a ﬁerce devotion to the family.''

==Arkona==

''This Slavic fortress-temple was one of the holiest pagan sites in the preChristian Baltic. Its ruins are situated above the cliffs on the headland of Kap Arkona, the northernmost point of Rügen. Here the four-faced sunand war-god Svantovit was worshiped for many centuries, and the Faerie aura generated through such devotion has yet to fade (it is currently 2), despite the fact that the temple was destroyed by Bishop Absolon of Roskilde in 1169. Only two volkhvy of Svantovit persist, eking out a living on the Wittow peninsula. One of the priests is very old, and is cared for by his grandson, who is also his sub-priest. The elder is attempting to teach his descendant all he knows about the dying god, so that He will not be lost to future generations. The grandson, however, has little interest in Svantovit, having seen no displays of power from his grandfather, who he follows only out of a sense of family duty. Between them they have laboriously moved the remaining upper half of Svantovit’s statue from Arkona into a wellhidden shrine. It has four faces gazing in four directions, and holds in its right hand a bull’s horn. Before the statue is placed the god’s immense sword, although the jeweled saddle and bridle that accompanied it were taken by the looters.''

==The Königstuhl (The King’s Seat)==

''Rising more than 380 feet out of the sea, the Königstuhl is a chalk cliff next to the main Stubbenkammer cliffs on the northeastern shore of Rügen. Legend states that whoever manages to climb up this piece of cliff from the sea will become king of Rügen and sit on a stone''
''throne at the top. In 1168, when King Valdemar I took possession of the island, he first secretly came to the Königstuhl and climbed it. Once at the top he was witnessed there by islanders, and recognized as the rightful ruler. It is said that because of this act he was able to take Rügen easily. It is not known whether the current Danish king, Valdemar II, has made the climb to legitimize his claim over Rügen, but those islanders who wish to see the Danes gone have attempted the climb, and failed. Even one of the magi of Crintera (the Horse Elder who preceded Istvan Padas) has attempted to conquer the Königstuhl, but he achieved no more than half the climb before falling to his death. Whether the King’s Seat confers upon those who sit on it a Divine Right to rule, or whether it is a pagan or faerie power that rules here is unknown, and the precise effect of successfully climbing the rock should be determined by the storyguide. What is certain is that those who attempt to cheat (such as through the use of magic) will surely fail.''

==Hertha Lake==

''Hidden in the Stubnitz Forest — and therefore a short walk from Crintera itself — is a mysterious small dark lake, partially covered with lilies. Every May Eve (Walpurgis Night, see Chapter 8: Central Germany, The Harz Mountains), the goddess Hertha bathes in the lake; then, once she is ﬁnished, she drowns one of the gathered mortals who witness this holy rite. The one chosen is marked by Hertha’s priestess, and is unaware of his impending fate, unlike everyone else present. The spirits of the previously drowned gather on the shore. In return for this human sacriﬁce, Hertha blesses the local farmers with good harvests, if they sprinkle the corners of their ﬁelds with water taken from the lake after the goddess has bathed. Hertha is a powerful faerie, and her small priesthood is lead by Zora, a woman whose dark beauty is a testament to her goddess’ gifts. Crintera and the priesthood of Hertha have an arrangement; the covenant protect the priestesses from discovery, and in return Zora gives them Creo vis every year, a product of the presence of her goddess. In addition, the priestess does not take her sacriﬁce from among Crintera’s covenfolk.''

==The Ziegensteine (The Goats’ Stones)==

''There are a number of ancient grave sites and megaliths in a small area of woodlands not far from the Mönchgut peninsula. The most prominent is a barrow built of two huge stone slabs laid over uprights underneath a giant oak tree. This area is used by the volkhvy of the Forest Brothers as a cemetery for devout believers. The huge barrow is empty; it is actually a supernatural gateway created by pre-Hermetic magic, forming one end of a faerie trod that reaches through a particularly dark and frightening region of Arcadia. Only a volkhv can open the gate, but they often allow magi of Bjornaer to use it, due to the relationship nurtured by Crintera. The terminus is not far from the covenant of Pripet Major in the Novgorod Tribunal, and proves to be very useful for maintaining contact between the two Tribunals. Unfortunately, there is no one at the Russian end of the gate who can open it — this is a strictly one-way shortcut.''

==The Buskam==

''Rügen has a number of mysteriously placed boulders lying around, called ﬁndlinge, of a type of stone that does not match their surroundings. The Buskam is the largest of these, a massive ball of stone that lies partially submerged in the sea just off the Mönchgut peninsula, and it is an occasional site of worship among some of the Slavic island folk (the name means “the god’s stone”). These stones were left behind by giants and are the only remains of an epic battle many centuries ago that saw the giants of Rügen banished to Pomerania.''

==Crintera==

''Crintera is the domus magna of House Bjornaer. The covenant consists of the six members of the Bjornaer council, who run the business of the House from their island home on Rügen. The council is currently split between the two factions of the House; the Harmonists, who believe that Bjornaer magi should try to live in harmony with those mundanes''
''who do not destroy the wild areas of the world, and the Wilderists, who ﬁercely protect wildernesses from the incursions of all humans. Crintera has been in its Winter season for the last 50 years due to the invasion of Rügen by the Danish king, and the subsequent spreading of the Dominion over the island.''

==History==

''Bjornaer was a Pomeranian witch (see below), and made her home on the isle of Rügen. A stronghold of paganism, the island suited her followers perfectly; as it was largely uninhabited, they could practice their magic while remaining hidden from their vengeful enemies. While a powerful force within the Tribunal, Crintera has led a relatively uneventful existence since its founding. This all changed in 1168 when the Danish king Valdemar I (along with Bishop Absolon of Roskilde) invaded the island. The heathen stronghold of Arkona was destroyed, and the nervous Christians established several churches and a Cistercian monastery to spread the Dominion. Crintera’s decision to wait out the occupation was strongly opposed by the Wilderists, but the opinion of the Harmonists within the House prevailed. Two years later, the Danes were still on Rügen when Urgen was elected Primus of House Bjornaer. Urgen was the strongest proponent of the Wilderist viewpoint, and his election was symptomatic of the prevailing thoughts of the House. No representatives from Crintera attended the Tribunal in 1172, but in 1179, Urgen himself turned up. He accused the magi of Oculus Septentrionalis of assisting the Danish invasion of Rügen, in turn damaging''
''Crintera’s magical resources, and ultimately slew their leader in a Wizard War. In the following years, the process of the Christianization of Rügen did not proceed as fast as was first feared, and Crintera and its resources remained largely intact. Consequently, the Harmonist faction of House Bjornaer rose to prominence. At the next Tribunal (1186) the Hawthorn Gild argued that Crintera’s wilderness had been invaded and was under extreme threat, and sought approval for a retaliatory strike, trying to invoke the “Guardians of the Forests” ruling. Despite support from the Ash Gild and (surprisingly) the Elder Gild, the Tribunal was split across factional lines, and no decision was made. However, it promised to investigate the affair further. This was insufﬁcient for the more aggressive Wilderists, and a number of prosecutions against Bjornaer magi attacking Danish settlers followed, which most of the House considered to be just rubbing salt into their wounds. At the next Tribunal, now 26 years since the original invasion, a young Bjornaer maga from Fengheld called Falke made a passionate plea to permit Crintera to actively resist the occupiers of Rügen. The Quaesitor Caecilius was quite ﬁrm that no wilderness had been invaded or destroyed — Crintera and its forest remained intact, a serious setback for the landmark “Guardians of the Forests” ruling. Stung by this rebuke, Crintera descended into a brief period of factional inﬁghting — the Wilderists blamed the Bjornaer council for not acting when it could have, and the Harmonists feared that the philosophy of the Wilderists had been vindicated. At the Gathering of Twelve Years in 1203, Urgen resigned as Primus, but retained a seat on the Bjornaer council; Falke was elected in his place. Her leadership of the House has lead to the current situation; a consolidation of the Bjornaer hold over the island, which still remains sparsely populated except for the town of Bergen, established by the Danes. Only time will tell if the ancient covenant of Crintera can continue to exist with mundane settlements — and new monasteries — on its doorstep.''

==Setting and Physical Description==

''Crintera is found deep within the Stubnitz Forest in the east of the island. It is a difﬁcult place to reach, since the''
''covenant is located in a regio. The mundane foundation of the regio apparently consists of virgin forest — dark stands of towering pine, with clusters of larch, rowan, and beech. The unspoiled appearance of the forest is a deceit carefully crafted by the covenfolk of Crintera: in fact, it is home to many of the covenant’s servants and grogs, who dwell in widely dispersed clusters of huts that are concealed by magic. People from the hamlets near to the outskirts of the forest have numerous stories concerning the wood, ranging from animal attacks to shadowy monsters and witches. They universally shun the woods, except for the handful of pagan priests of the Forest Brothers, who are welcome within its bounds. Stubnitz Forest is difﬁcult to pass through, even to experienced woodsmen. Visitors are watched at all times, by both the covenfolk of Crintera and their animal allies. There is one path through the forest, called the Watching Path. Its beginning is marked by two crumbling mosscovered stones in a glade not far from the forest’s edge, and it leads right to the heart of the forest, where Crintera lies, and is the path known by Redcaps and magi of House Bjornaer. The forest is strongly aligned with the Animal Powers, mysterious entities who ruled this area before the Bjornaer came here. Those who penetrate the regio that shrouds Crintera often take on animal characteristics related to their heartbeast. A heartbeast should be determined for every visitor to Crintera, whether magus or mundane. These animals should be chosen to ﬁt with their personalities; thus a brave shield grog may have the heartbeast of a stag, a troubadour that of a songbird, and a crafty magus the shape of a snake. There are four levels to the magical regio, with auras of 1, 3, 5, and 8. Each regio boundary brings the heartbeast of the affected character closer to the fore; as each is crossed, every character must resist a Corpus effect with a Penetration Total equal to the Ease Factor needed to see the next level (according to the rules in ArM5, page 189). The ﬁrst regio boundary brings a Personality Trait change appropriate to the heartbeast, whereas the second, third, and fourth boundaries cause minor physical changes. If all four effects take place, no doubt is left to others as to the nature of the heartbeast of the character; although he is still demonstrably human, he is also a quarter to a third animal. Magi are rarely overcome by this effect if they have their Parma Magica active; however, it is deemed rude by the inhabitants of''
''Crintera to actively resist this change. Of course, magi of House Bjornaer can shrug off these changes with a Heartbeast roll, should they want to. On the fourth and ﬁnal level of the regio are a number of sturdily built roundhouses, with the thatch of their wide, conical roofs almost reaching to the ground. These huts are the sancta of the Elders. In the very center of the regio is a clearing containing a platform built of lashedtogether logs. It is in this clearing, big enough for ﬁfty or more people, that the Gathering of Twelve Years takes place. All around the top level of the regio are strange statues in a startling variety of forms and shapes. Atop a tree stump sits a wooden image of a squirrel; a carved stone otter lies amongst a clump of cattails; a snake of dyed and woven rushes is coiled in the hollow of a boulder; a clay wolf with teeth made of broken shells sits by a log; stone birds sit in the branches of willow saplings encircled by feather-decorated leather thongs. Every type of animal is represented, but the area somehow doesn’t seem crowded. From any given point only a few of these fetishes can be seen. The covenfolk of Crintera call these images the “Animal Powers,” and accord them a lot of respect, laying small offerings by the fetish that represents their''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Gathering of Twelve Years==

''The Followers of Bjornaer congregate every twelve years at Crintera for a secret meeting, during which time they perform rituals associated with maintaining their lineage, remembering their ancestors, and solidifying the bonds within the House. It is generally believed that during the gathering House Bjornaer uses ancient, exotic magic that Bjornaer kept secret and passed on only to her ﬁlii. These rumors probably stem from the fact that most initiations into the Mysteries of House Bjornaer are conducted during the gathering; many of the rituals, led by the Elder of the Swan, are not fully understood even by most members of the House. In addition to the esoteric aspects of the Gathering, it is also a social and political occasion. The followers of Bjornaer take this congregation very seriously indeed; most of the House attends every time, and they will not speak of what goes on to members of other Houses. They deny nothing and afﬁrm nothing. The gathering takes place on the large platform in the center of Crintera. The inhabitants of Rügen refer to this occasion as the Teufelsjahr (Devil’s Year), and dread the time that between ﬁfty and a hundred magi (who they believe to be demons) descend upon the island in preparation for the gathering. The next gathering, due in 1227, is likely to be politically explosive because of the controversy between the Wilderists and the Harmonists. Sagas with Bjornaer magi should not neglect the Gathering of Twelve Years, and it is recommended that the players without Bjornaer characters are given one to play during the event. Although politics must be a focus, the esoteric activities of the House should not be ignored. Bjornaer magi will seek out the Animal Power of their heartbeast, and may experience mystical visions. Ardea (see below) will organize ritual re-enactments of ancient stories and legends. The characters will have the possibility of interacting with powerful and enigmatic Bjornaer magi from across the Order.''

|}
''heartbeast. The Animal Powers are truly ancient, and some say that they house primordial spirits of nature. Those touching the Power that corresponds to their own shape feel an indescribable, deep level of connection. Those who have resisted the changes wrought by the regio boundaries feel a strong compulsion not to touch the images, as do those approaching a fetish that is not representative of their own heartbeast.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Despite being members of the Order for over four hundred years, House Bjornaer is still run as a tribe. Family loyalties run strong in the tribe of Bjornaer, but all pay allegiance to the Council of Elders. The six magi who constitute the council are the only permanent residents at Crintera. Contrary to popular belief,''
''the Elders do not spend all their time in the form of their heartbeast — it is difﬁcult to do lab research as an animal. The practice of religion (of any kind) is banned in Crintera; this is one of its earliest laws, in honor of the Animal Powers. Those wishing to pay homage to their god(s) must leave the regio before doing so.''

==Magi==


===Urgen, follower of Bjornaer===

''Age: 114 (Archmage) Personality Traits: Quick-Tempered +5, Authoritarian +4, Peaceful –4''
''Urgen holds the Seat of the Bear. He was the Primus of the House from 1165 to 1203 during the Danish invasion of Rügen, and is a committed Wilderist — possibly the most inﬂuential of that faction. He argues that the Order must hold back a burgeoning mundane population to protect the wild lands and calls on the followers of Bjornaer to involve themselves in Hermetic politics to accomplish this goal. Some accuse him of secretly harassing mundane populations with “animal attacks” to drive them off. He did not have enthusiastic support for his ideas when he was Primus, but with the continuing situation on Rügen, more are ﬂocking to his side. He is stepping up his covert campaigns now that he is free of the responsibilities of leadership of the House. Instead, he leads the Hawthorn Gild. Urgen is well-known for his pugnacious nature: he has slain two powerful magi in the last ﬁfty years in Wizard Wars by literally tearing them apart. Thanks to''
''For many centuries, the followers of Bjornaer have been divided into two factions. Central to the philosophy of the House is that the wellspring of all magic is those areas that remain in their pristine state, untouched by the hand of man. To the Bjornaer, the Realm of Magic is the pristine state of the world, pre-dating the fae. The fae spring from wilderness tempered with man’s curiosity, which is why they are associated with the trappings of heathenry and the ways of man. Bound up with this philosophy is, therefore, the need to protect the wilderness from the ingress of mankind, the Church, and the fae. However, just how the wilderness is to be defended has divided the House. Harmonists believe that the “invasion” of the wilderness by the growing human population is inevitable. There are far too few Bjornaer magi to be able to defend all the areas that need it. The solution is therefore to persuade mundanes that they need to live in harmony with the wild. If they treat it with respect, and learn to co-exist with nature rather than try to tame it, the inherent magic of those wild places need not be destroyed. Wilderists, on the other hand, are more extreme. They wish to see humankind sent back to the cities, corralled within stone walls where they can do no harm. They ensure that humans consider forests, marshes, and moors to be places of danger where wild beasts''
''roam and untamable forces are in control. The more zealous members of this faction seek to revert wildernesses that have already been tamed to their original state, driving out settlers and protecting them from further incursions. The Six Elders of Crintera are elected from the members of the House. When an Elder dies or passes into Final Twilight, he will not be replaced until the next Gathering of Twelve Years. Then, the remaining Elders will perform an ancient divination ritual to guide them to the next one. How much mysticism and how much politicking is involved in this decision is unknown, but there are records of at least one occasion where a Great Beast (that is, a Bjornaer who has passed into Final Twilight) has indicated to the council who the successor should be. One seat on the council is reserved for the elected Primus of House Bjornaer. The Primus is the political leader of the House, and the leader as far as the Order of Hermes is concerned. However, for many issues, the Primus is merely passing on the dictates of the Council of Elders. Although the whole House is involved in choosing the Primus, it is the Council of Elders who choose the prospective candidates, and they have a large amount of inﬂuence on the decision. As the “leader of the pack,” the Primus’s seat is referred to as The Seat of the Wolf.''
''One seat on the council, that of the Senior Elder, is always reserved for a magus with a bear heartbeast, in memory of Bjornaer (who also had the heartbeast of a bear). Currently, this seat is occupied by Urgen, former Primus of the House, who has some rather radical ideas about the role of the House as protectors of the Wild. Should the elected Primus have the heartbeast of a bear, as Urgen did when he was primus, the Seats of the Bear and the Wolf are combined, and an extra seat, called the Seat of the Fox, makes the numbers up to six. The Senior Elder has the casting vote in any decision of the council, and tradition states that his words are treated with deference and honor. Apart from the Seats of the Wolf and the Bear, there are also the seats of the Horse, the Stag, the Eagle, and the Swan. Each of these seats has traditional responsibilities. Horse is in charge of keeping track of Crintera’s magi (and Bjornaer magi elsewhere), Stag is the protector, Eagle looks outward, keeping an eye on the Order, and Swan is the leader in the rituals that take place at Crintera. The seat of the Swan has been held, for as long as anyone can remember, by an esoteric lineage of magi with the heartbeast of a heron, all of whom are skilled seers.''

==The Harmonists and the Wilderists==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +4, Com +2, Str –2, Sta –1, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 49 (45) (Gauntlet at 23; Master) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 3 (16) Conﬁdence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Master; Major Magical Focus (Bodies of water); Afﬁnity with Aquam, Famous (gained upon becoming Prima of House Bjornaer), Great Presence, Heartbeast*, Improved Characteristics, Inspirational, Linden Gild Trained, Piercing Gaze; Optimistic, Study Requirement; Covenant Upbringing, Deﬁcient Form (Ignem), Slow Caster Personality Traits: Committed to an Ideal +3, Cheerful +2, Humble +1 Reputations: Prima of House Bjornaer 5 (Hermetic), Master of Aquam Magic 1 (Hermetic) Combat: Dodging: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense –1, Damage n/a Soak: –1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 3 (rhetoric), Awareness 2 (vision), Bargain 2 (contracts), Charm 3 (mundanes), Code of Hermes 2 (attitude towards mundanes), Concentration 2 (Aquam spells), Dominion Lore 1 (miracles), Folk Ken 3 (peers), French 1 (Norman), Low German 5 (Saxon), Guile 1 (good intentions), Heartbeast 3 (in haste), Intrigue 3 (House Bjornaer), Latin 4 (speeches), Leadership 3 (Harmonists), Magic Lore 3 (shapeshifters), Magic Theory 5 (Aquam), Order of Hermes Lore 4 (House Bjornaer), Parma Magica 3 (Corpus), Philosophiae 2 (ritual spells), Swim 2 (lakes), Teaching 1 (Magic Theory), Theology 1 (debate), West Norse 2 (Danish), West Slavonic 2 (Sorbian) Arts: Cr 7, In 8, Mu 9, Pe 5, Re 7; An 5, Aq 16, Au 6, Co 7, He 5, Ig 4, Im 6, Me 6, Te 5, Vi 6 Twilight Scars: Falke’s feet are always wet — if she stands still too long, she will leave a small puddle. Equipment: Her talisman. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: Mighty Torrent of Water (CrAq 20) +27''
''Voice of the Lake (InAq 25) +36 Sculpt the Living Water (MuAq 20) +29 or +38 Neptune’s Imprisoning Arms (MuAq 25) +29 or +38 Appease the Queen of Winter (MuAq 60) +38 Break the Oncoming Wave (ReAq 10) +34 Breath of Winter (ReAq 15) +34 Still the Raging Waters (ReAq 15) +34 Chaos of the Angry Waves (ReAq 20) +34 Parting the Waves (ReAq 30) +34 Broom of the Winds (CrAu 15) +12 In Christ’s Footsteps (ReCo 5) +16 Eyes of the Eagle (InIm 25) +13 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +14 New Spells: Sculpt the Living Water; MuAq 20; R:Voice, D:Sun, T:Ind: Allows the caster to mold water as if it were clay. The shaping procedure is done mentally; once complete the sculpture remains for Sun Duration. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun) Neptune’s Imprisoning Arms; MuAq 25; R:Voice, D:Sun, T:Group: Operates like Trap of the Entwining Vines, but the ‘vines’ are made from water, which takes on a semi-solid form for the duration of this spell. The ‘vines’ can hold still a small rowing boat, or up to 6 people. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +1 Group) Appease the Queen of Winter; MuAq 60; R: Voice, D:Year, T:Boundary, Ritual: Propitiates the Queen of Winter, who then allows the Baltic Sea to thaw that year. Falke learned this spell with the assistance of the volkhvy of Arkona and a laboratory text in the possession of Crintera. If this spell is cast at Arkona (which Falke and magi of Crintera do every year), the Casting Total receives a bonus of +10, due to the presence of the sun-god Svantovit, who is opposed to the Queen of Winter. (Base 15, +2 Voice, +4 Year, +3 Boundary, Ritual) Still the Raging Waters; ReAq 15; R:Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind: Causes all the waves on a small body of water to be stilled to mirror-smoothness. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Conc) In Christ’s Footsteps; ReCo 5; R:Per, D:Conc, T:Ind: Allows the caster to walk on water. (Base 4, +1 Conc) Magical Items: Talisman: a silver anklet-ring decorated with a checkered pattern of watery crystal and amber. Attunements: +5 water-related effects, +3 Corpus''
''Perceive the Change; InCo 15; R:Touch, D:Sun, T:Ind (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun): Detects whether Falke has changed form, and if she has, triggers the next effect. With 2 uses per day (+1 level) and an environmental trigger (+3 levels), this is a constant effect. Falke can choose not to resist this effect, and she always does. Final level: 19 Change Size; MuTe 10; R:Per, D:Sun; T:Ind (Base 4, +2 Sun): Triggered by the previous effect, her talisman becomes a leg-band. With 2 uses per day (+1 level) and an environmental trigger (+3 levels), this is a constant effect once triggered. It also has a linked trigger, to the preceding effect (+3 levels). Final level: 17 Perceive Motives; InMe 10; R: Eye, D: Mom, T:Ind (Base 5, +1 Eye): As Sight of the Transparent Motive, this effect has a Penetration of 0 to ensure it does not work on Hermetic Magi, and 3 uses per day (+2 levels). Final level 12 Appearance: Falke is a small, lithe woman with an incredible natural presence. While she is not physically attractive, she has a palpable aura of selfcontrol about her. She appears to be in her mid-forties, although her hair, always pale, is a uniform silky gray. She dresses simply; like many Bjornaer she puts little stock in clothing. She never wears footwear, which clearly displays her talisman, worn around her ankle. Her heart beast is a silver-gray falcon with white-banded wings.''
''Falke is the current Prima of House Bjornaer. She had the leadership of House Bjornaer thrust upon her; she had never considered a political career before the fateful Grand Tribunal that raised her profile in the House. While not firmly declared as a Harmonist, Falke has sympathies for that position. She currently strives for a strategy of isolation and patience, and she is trying to regain the trust of the Quaesitores and others in the Order. Until taking the Seat of the Wolf, she had been immersed in her magic; since then she has struggled to acquire the qualities of leadership, and to achieve master status, as beﬁts the Prima of House Bjornaer. Having succeeded in the latter, she has wasted no time in beginning the training of her ﬁrst apprentice. As a powerful and inﬂuential person in the Tribunal, Falke is not suitable as a player character in most sagas.''

==Falke, Prima of Bjornaer==

''this, and his advanced age, he commands respect within the House.''

===Jon Arnsson, follower of Bjornaer===

''Age: 98 (Master) Personality Traits: Pious +3, Conﬂicted Loyalties +2, Peaceful +2''
''Jon Arnsson serves the council on the Seat of the Stag. He assumed this role at the Gathering of Twelve Years in 1167, little suspecting that the job of protector of the covenant would become so important in the following year. Jon has an additional problem in that he is a devout Christian, and as such believes that the invasion by King Valdemar I was righteous, supported as it was by the Church. As he is also ﬁercely loyal to Crintera, his loyalties are seriously divided. Needless to say, despite his genuine faith, his ideas would be considered heretical by any other Christian. Jon has the heartbeast of a lion, although by nature he is gentle and detests violence — but he sees the need''
''for it in some circumstances. Apart from Urgen, Jon is the eldest member of the council, and a fervent Harmonist. In his role as protector, he takes it upon himself to participate in Marches against members of his House, if feasible.''

===Phyllia, follower of Bjornaer===

''Age: 58 (Master) Personality Traits: Curious +3, Restless +1, Discreet –3''
''Phyllia is the Eagle Elder, in charge of keeping the council informed of the doings of the rest of the Order. She travels widely and has contacts all over the Tribunal (and beyond), but is a notorious gossip and largely incapable of keeping any secrets she discovers to herself. She has the heartbeast of a polecat, and believes in the Harmonist viewpoint.''

===Ardea, follower of Bjornaer===

''Age: 83 (Master) Personality Traits: Neutral +2, Serene +2, Hungry for Knowledge +1''
''Ardea holds Seat of the Swan, and has the heartbeast of a heron, like all who take this seat. She is quiet and contemplative, and rarely offers an opinion on political matters. Thus far she has studiously avoided committing herself to either the Harmonist or Wilderist viewpoint, knowing that her opinion holds much weight with others, famous as she is for her foresight and her divinatory powers. She has the thirst for magical knowledge that might be expected of members of House Bonisagus rather than Bjornaer.''

===Istvan Padas, follower of Bjornaer===

''Age: 48 (Master) Personality Traits: Hot-Headed +3, Brave +2, Subtle –2''
''Istvan Padas occupies the Seat of the Horse, appropriately enough, as his heartbeast is that of a magniﬁcent stallion. He is the youngest of the Elders and the most willful — a magus of action rather than thought. He is descended from a line of horse-shaped Bjornaer who were inducted in the early days of the Order into the House from the invading Magyars (see Chapter 2: History, Rise of the New Empire). His stance as a Wilderist is supported strongly by his lover Zora, the faeblooded priestess of Hertha (see above).''

===Other Magi===

''Occasionally, other Bjornaer magi take up temporary residence at Crintera. Since the membership of the covenant is strictly limited to the six council seats, such magi always retain the status of a “guest,” even though they may stay for years before they either depart or are voted onto the Council of Elders. Visiting Bjornaer magi may establish a temporary sanctum on the third (penultimate) level of the regio. One such current guest is Caprea. In a unfortunate recent incident, she accidentally blinded the familiar of a visiting Jerbiton magus from Oculus Septentrionalis, Carolus, ironically sent from his covenant to Crintera as a peace''
''envoy of sorts. As a result, relations between the two covenants have further worsened. Caprea is currently consulting Crintera’s library to put the finishing touches to her bestiary, which she will present at the next Tribunal.''

==Covenfolk==

''Crintera’s covenfolk mostly remain on the mundane or ﬁrst level of the regio. Several of them can change shape, either due to their own power or because of magic given them by the magi. The turb of the covenant has historically been large, with a reputation as the ﬁercest and most bestial of all the Rhine covenants’, although it is becoming increasingly hard to recruit new blood due to the spread of the Church over Rügen, and numbers are dwindling. The grogs are all trained in wood-craft as well as ﬁghting. The grogs and covenfolk are divided into six clans, named just as the six seats of the Elders. Each Elder is responsible for the maintenance and conduct of his clan, with which the elder usually has a strong bond. The clans are based on family, although they also adopt members. The six round-houses exist on all the regio levels; on the ﬁrst, they serve as familial residences for the clans, and on the second, they serve as barrack-houses. Clan warriors are chosen because they have the heartbeast of his clan animal, or a similar one. The turb trains in a large practice ground on the second regio level, where each grog takes on some of the characteristics of their clan animal, which strongly inﬂuences their wild ﬁghting style. Each clan, therefore, does battle as a separate unit with a distinctive technique, and with its own choice of specialized weapons. Each has a different shield design (a depiction of their clan animal). The Wolf Clan make up the bulk of the covenant’s warriors and servants, and its primary duty is to protect the Prima, to whom its members are ﬁercely loyal. The clan leader, chosen by the Prima, serves as her personal shield grog and carries a shield enchanted with defensive magics. Within living memory, the clan leader has always been a wolf skinchanger. They ﬁght with axes, emulating the swiping claws of their clan beast. The largest and strongest men are usually chosen for membership of the Bear Clan. They are the covenant’s ﬁercest warriors, and it is considered an honor to be a member. The mace is their preferred weapon, although they also specialize in''
''unarmed combat. The clan leader (who carries a bearskin cape imbued with the power of transformation — in popular legend, though not in actual fact, the skin of Bjornaer herself) is a huge man by the name of Dietrich. He has the uncanny ability to spot shape-changers — he always seems to be able to tell if an animal he meets sometimes walks on two legs, or if a human can take animal form. This ability even seems to work to some extent on Bjornaer — he still cannot say for sure, but his guesses are more often correct than one would expect by chance. Historically, the Bear Clan are berserkers, but this tradition is fading. They remain the most independent and perhaps the most bestial of all the clans. Appropriately enough, the Horse Clan maintains the steeds of Crintera. They all possess the Animal Ken Virtue, and are skilled horsemen and spearmen. The horses are wild and independent rather than placid domesticated beasts, roaming at will across Crintera, and will only accept riders at the behest of this clan. The Horse Clan provides most of the provisioning for Crintera, and acts as a messenger service when Redcaps are not appropriate or available. The Stag Clan oversees the covenant’s defense. Of them all, they are the most skilled soldiers, ﬁghting with swords and taking the lead in battle. The clan leader (effectively the turb captain) directs the other clans in all military matters and has a sound grasp of combat strategy. Among the non-warriors of this clan is a weaponsmith, who works in their clan house. In the Eagle Clan are the nimblest and most keen-eyed of the covenant’s grogs. They are expert archers, and their primary duty is to keep an eye on the other inhabitants of Rügen, acting as spies and hunters. They also operate as an informant network for their Elder across Europe, and have even inﬁltrated some other covenants. The Eagle Clan leader, who sometimes acts as an emissary, is usually chosen on the basis of her diplomatic skills. The smallest is the Swan Clan; these are both the crafts-folk of the covenant and those companions who display magical powers other than shapechanging. The warriors of this clan, who ﬁght with the polearm, serve a mostly ceremonial function and perform a special ritual role at the Gathering of Twelve Years. Janis, volkv (priest) of the Forest Brothers, is leader of the clan and is the covenant’s contact among the pagan people of Rügen. He is often consulted by the magi on matters pertaining to the island or its''
''supernatural inhabitants, although he is not allowed to practice his religion in Crintera itself.''

==Pomerania==

''Pomerania is a sparsely-populated realm of Slavic peoples in between the Baltic Sea and Poland, bordering the Novgorod Tribunal. Most of the towns are huddled along the coast or rivers, away from the primal inland forests. It has only belonged to the Holy Roman Empire since 1181, when Frederick Barbarossa awarded it to Bogislaw, declaring him a duke of the empire. The years since have seen an increase of German migration into Pomerania. The current ruler is Prince Mestwin I, who has sworn an oath of alle''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Knights of the Sword==

''The Livonian Order was founded in 1202 by Albert von Buxhövden, bishop of Riga, in order to prosecute a crusade against the pagan tribes of Livonia (some distance to the east of Pomerania along the Baltic coast, in the Novgorod Tribunal). Its rules and practices were largely based on those of the Knights Templar. In 1211, the Knights of the Sword, as they are commonly known, captured the town of Fellin in Livonia, which now forms their base of operations, brutally slaughtering captives and forcibly baptizing townsfolk. The Knights are increasingly out of control, with murder, rape, and robbery commonplace during their violent conquests. They have an uneasy alliance with the Danish king and Bishop Albert, who struggles in vain to control their excesses. Although the main center of their activity is some distance to the east, the Knights maintain a presence in Pomerania, where their campaigns are mostly successfully concluded — or at least, there is no longer any organized resistance to the Church. A number of knights have settled here, among the numerous estates seized by the Order — these lords are rightfully feared, especially among those folk whose Christian piety may be lacking.''

|}
''giance to Valdemar II of Denmark. He dies on the 1st of May 1220, leaving four sons, the oldest of whom, Swantopolk, becomes duke. In contrast to the rest of Germany, the power and holdings of the Church here are small. However, the unscrupulous Knights of the Sword are now active here, founding Christian towns and monasteries, and rooting out the remnants of paganism in the forests with religious fervor.''

==Stettin==

''Stettin is a small port city on the River Oder, overlooked by an old Wendish fortress, which is the ancestral home of the Pomeranian rulers. Since the''
''middle of the 12th century, Germans have begun to settle in the city. They have funded the construction of the church of St. Jakob, completed in 1187.''

==Rethra==

''Rethra was once a great Slavic pagan fortress-temple, much like its ancient rival, Arkona (see above). A triangular citadel enclosed the great Oracle of the god Radegast. Each of the three walls, adorned with paintings of ancient gods, holds a gate; two lead to the surrounding forest and the third backs onto a holy lake. For a number of centuries this site was also a covenant inhabited by Slavic magi-priests, but it entered a deep Winter''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Holm Oak of Romowe==

''Magic Might: 45 (currently 30 due to entrapment) Personality Traits: Domineering +3, Cruel +1 Special Powers: Grant Flaw (Depression; upon anyone who breaks a branch or kills an animal), Possession (anyone who takes a branch of the tree)''
''The Pomeranian Forest is one of the most oppressive and fearsome in Germany. Dominated by pine, ﬁr, holly, and evergreen oak, it remains green and dark all year around. Its borders spill over into Pomerania and Poland, and it is reputedly a stronghold of witches and werewolves. In the northern reaches of the forest there is a sacred grove called Romowe; all locals know the perils of breaking a twig or slaying a beast there. Dominating the center of the grove is a massive holm (evergreen) oak, bedecked with ribbon of cloth and talismans. A small band of foresters tends the grove, ensuring that a ﬁre beneath the oak’s boughs never goes out. The ﬁre is fed with fallen branches. Contrary to ﬁrst appearances, this is not a pagan revival; the foresters know that if the ﬁre ever goes out, the malevolent spirit of Romowe will escape. Even taking a twig from the tree releases some of the ancient evil of the oak, causing some calamity to the taker. When Romowe was last free, it possessed a human who violated the sacred grove; the spirit became a tyrant, ruling over the whole region. It took St. Adalbert of Prague to defeat the spirit, drive it back into the Holm Oak, and light the ﬁre that keeps it trapped.''

==Story Seed: Taking a Bough==

''Suspecting the power of the Holm Oak, a magus steals a bough to make into his talisman. A substantial portion of Romowe’s spirit enters the branch, and then possesses the magus. Under the inﬂuence of Romowe’s spirit, this powerful Herbam specialist begins to ﬂagrantly break the Code of Hermes by exerting his dominance over the people of the region while restoring the forest to its former glory.''

|}

==The Werewolves of Pomerania==

''Witches and werewolves are staples of the ﬁre-side stories in Pomeranian villages, but these stories are not told for entertainment — they are warnings. The villagers are ever vigilant for signs that might give one of their neighbors (and especially strangers) away as one who walks in a different form when the moon is full; signs such as unusual features or accents, a bad reaction from animals, or a prickly feeling on the back of the neck. The ability to change shape is inherited — reliably if both parents are werewolves, not quite so reliably if only one of the parents is. There are distinct lineages of the shapeshifters, which form a wide-reaching extended family. Some seek to live lives entirely separate from the rest of humanity, others delight in their bestial side and have no difﬁculty preying on the livestock and children of humans. Only once a year, on Walpurgis Night (April 30th), do the werewolf factions of a region meet. While within the glow of the huge bonﬁres that the shapeshifters build, they are forbidden by ancient compacts to ﬁght. This night is for settling arguments, agreeing on territorial boundaries, and reafﬁrming kinships. In addition, it is the time that the youngsters hear the legends of the shapeshifters, including their glorious past united under a war-leader against the Romans, and how the traitor Bjornaer turned on her heritage and took their secrets to the Roman priests. It was because of this, so the shapeshifters believe, that they are no longer the kings of men, but instead skulk on the fringes of human society. This is the only organization of these werewolves that exists, contrary to the beliefs of House Bjornaer. A child born into a werewolf family will acquire the Skinchanger Virtue. Those unlucky enough to be born into human families will usually acquire the Lycanthrope Flaw, and be unable to control their change. Animals often seem to be able to detect these werewolves, getting nervous in their presence. This will cause startled fear in small animals, skittishness in horses, and frenzied barking in dogs, unless the shapeshifter is lucky enough to have the Animal Ken Virtue. At the option of the storyguide, there may be clans of skinchangers who can change into bears or lynx instead of wolves. Some members of the shapeshifter families (particularly women) develop stronger supernatural powers; these witches gain the Shapeshifter Virtue instead, and often have other magical abilities, such as Entrancement, or Second Sight. They are treated with great respect by their kin, and tend to be as maleﬁc or peaceful as the rest of their clan. Bjornaer the Founder was one of these witches. Pomeranian werewolves may make suitable companion characters; along with the Virtue or Flaw that allows them to change shape, the following may also be appropriate: Virtues: Animal Ken, Close Family Ties, Ways of the (Land), Wilderness Sense Flaws: Dependants, Enemies (Rival clans), Feral Upbringing, Magical Air, Offensive to Animals, Reclusive, Tainted with Evil''
''for a century or more, as the local forest folk abandoned the site and their old beliefs. Nearly twenty years ago, the Knights of the Sword arrived to desecrate and plunder the already-crumbling temple. No word had been received from the magi of Rethra for many decades; the Tribunal of 1207 therefore declared the covenant abolished. The site, however, retains a Faerie aura of 4. The nobility of Mecklenburg (see Chapter 7: The Lowlands, Holstein) still come here in secret to honor their god, even though his “priests” have passed away.''

==The Margravate of Brandenburg==

''Low-lying lands on the eastern bank of the River Elbe comprise the March of Brandenburg, founded by Albert the Bear in 1150, a Saxon who adopted the title of margrave after his vigorously successful campaigns against the Wends. Since then it has been ruled by his descendants, the Ascanian line, and is populated by a mixture of Germans and Wends, now much intermingled. In 1220 the current margrave, Albert II, dies and is succeeded by Otto III “the Pious.” The land is mostly forest, but is gradually being cleared to make way for farmland.''

==Brandenburg==

''The only city of note in the Margravate of Brandenburg east of the Elbe occupies the site of an old Wendish''
''settlement, straddled across three adjacent islands in the River Havel. The middle of the three houses a cathedral rebuilt by Albert the Bear. This was the ﬁrst bishopric to be established east of the Elbe, in 948, by Otto the Great, although it was temporarily lost after a Slavic counterattack later that century.''

==The Margravate of Meissen==

''A moderately populated rolling land dotted with several towns and small cities, the Margravate of Meissen is the most civilized of the Eastern Marches. Nevertheless it is still a bit of a backwater of the empire, unimportant in politics, trade, or the Church. Perhaps this is due in part to the unfortunate geography of its borders — it is bounded by the impenetrable Thuringian Forest and Ore Mountains to the south, and by the Elbe and Saale rivers to the north. The Wettin dynasty has ruled here since 1089; the current margrave is Dietrich the Oppressed. The last Hermetic covenant in Meissen was Sirmium, which was destroyed in the 10th century by invading Magyars.  At that time the margravate was a very different place. There now appears to be a dearth of magical sites and vis sources — those that were known to the Order were destroyed along with Sirmium long ago.''

==Meissen==

''The city of Meissen, on the left bank of the River Elbe, is the seat of the eponymous margravate, with the margraves residing on the Burgberg (Castle Hill) above. This stronghold was founded in 929 by Henry I, and in 963 Meissen became the seat of a bishopric. It has a prosperous market where German merchants mingle with traders from Lusatia, Silesia, and Poland, although the city is not yet grand or rich enough to have built its own cathedral. The Bastei, upstream from Meissen near the Ore Mountains, is a spectacular''
''set of limestone cliffs and rocks, some a thousand feet tall, overlooking the Elbe. In fact there are many unique and dramatic rock formations around this hilly region, and also in southern Lusatia immediately to the east.''

==The Ore Mountains==

''The Erzgebirge (Ore Mountains) are a bleak and unsettled range covered with evergreen forest, adjoining the Spruce Mountains in Franconia. The River Elbe punctures the eastern end, forming the principal connection between Meissen and Bohemia. Although this region is wild, silver and tin have recently been discovered in its slopes, giving rise to a handful of mining towns and villages, the biggest of which is Freiberg (Free Mountain), founded in 1186. Due to a 12th-century imperial decree, anyone may come to these hills to prospect for minerals and keep the proceeds.''

==The Margravate of Lusatia==

''In contrast with Meissen, the Margravate of Lusatia (or Luzica in its native tongue), east of the Elbe bordering Silesia, is mainly forest wilderness. Most of the sparse settlements are populated entirely by Sorbs, although it has for several generations been ruled by the margraves of Meissen.''

==Bautzen==

''Bautzen (Budysin), not too far from the city of Meissen, is the only place in Lusatia with any real German inﬂuence. In 1018, the Peace of Bautzen was signed here by Henry II, ceding the territory to the Polish king Boleslaus I, but it reverted to the empire in 1033. The Knights of the Sword maintain a sizeable fortiﬁcation here, where slaves (mostly from Pomerania) are kept before transporting them south to the market in Prague.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Raiding the Temple==

''Rethra might be haunted by the ghosts of long-dead magi, or perhaps it still houses an ancient magus on the cusp of Final Twilight. In either case, the Oracle might be a source of Intellego vis; however, the princes of Mecklenburg will not appreciate magi plundering the mouthpiece of their god.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
