''The southeastern lands of the Rhine Tribunal consist of the subject kingdom of Bohemia and its own March immediately to the east, Moravia. Bohemia is a land of broad, partially forested plains, through the center of which ﬂows the River Elbe, and which is divided and bordered by long chains of wooded mountains. There are no great cities here; instead, modest towns and villages are spread quite thinly, lending a sense of remoteness to much of the land. The Margravate of Moravia is in the easternmost reaches of the empire — the borderlands with the kingdom of Hungary and with the Transylvanian Tribunal, whose inﬂuence (particularly that of House Tremere) is often felt by the magi here.''

=Bohemia=

''Bohemia has been ruled by the Premyslid dynasty, the descendants of the legendary Czech, since the 8th century. Christianity arrived in the next century with the missionary St. Methodius, although it took several generations to become established. With natural borders on all sides, the region was ruled as a semi-autonomous tributary of the German empire, interrupted by the attacks of Hungarians at the beginning of the 12th century. A generation ago, Frederick Barbarossa elevated Bohemia from the status of a duchy to a subject kingdom of the empire. The current Premyslid king is Otakar. The only towns of note in 1220 are located around and to the north of Prague. However, Bohemia experiences rapid growth throughout the 13th century, with the founding of numerous towns and cities in the outlying regions, where German-style feudalism replaces the old Slavic system of tribal chiefdom. Apart''
''from farming and hunting, there are a number of nascent industries, including mining, glassblowing, brewing, and the breeding of horses.''

==Prague==

''Prague, founded in the latter half of the 9th century, straddles the River Vltava — a tributary of the Elbe — at the center of Bohemia. The bishopric was created, under the jurisdiction of Mainz in 973, and Thietmar of Merseburg became Prague’s ﬁrst bishop. With only three''
''thousand inhabitants, Prague is by no means a large city, at least in comparison to the rest of Germany, but nevertheless it is Bohemia’s principal settlement and the ancestral seat of the dukedom (now kingdom). Prague Castle, occupying a commanding position on a hill above the west bank of the river, encloses part of the city within its walls, including the Basilica of St. George (and its attached convent) and the Basilica of St. Vitus. The latter church contains the shrine and grave of St. Wenceslaus and houses the relics of St. Adalbert. Nearby is Strahov monastery, which was founded in 1140 by the Premonstratensians, an austere religious''

=Bohemia=

''order. In the 11th century, the city spread onto the opposite bank — there is a market run largely by German merchants, and a small Jewish quarter. Prague produces inexpensive glassware, that is traded with the cities of northern Germany.''

==Vysehrad Rock==

''Princess Libuse, the Gifted granddaughter of Czech, came to this spot, a hilltop just a short distance to the south of Prague, in the 8th century. Her father, Krok, had died without a male heir and the Czech people agreed to accept whoever Libuse chose as her husband as their new ruler. Here she had a great vision where she foretold the identity of this''
''man, a farmer who was to be found in a speciﬁc spot by the River Belina beyond the hills, plowing a ﬁeld with two oxen. The prophecy was fulfilled as he, Premysl, became her husband and the founder of Bohemia’s ruling dynasty. A small settlement has since grown up next to Vysehrad Rock, including Prague’s second castle.''

==Most==

''Most (Bridge) is located to the south of the Ore Mountains. It is so named on account of the intricate network of wooden bridges built over the swampy terrain here, to allow merchants to travel more easily between Freiberg and Prague. A town and market have grown up around the bridges.''

==Boii Springs==

''Amid the hills of western Bohemia are 12 hot mineral springs near to the remains of a Celtic settlement. The largest of these is a geyser that rises to a height of 40 feet; the springs produce such a volume of hot water that the River Tepla even runs warm for miles downstream. Drinking the waters will help cure digestive disorders. The name of the springs derives from the Celtic Boii tribe, from which Bohemia takes its name.''

==Mount Blanik==

''On the slopes of Mount Blanik, at a place where springs rise from the earth, there is an arch-shaped opening in the rock face. This passage leads to a huge underground cavern, arched and pillared with the appearance of a great hall. The columns are bedecked with weaponry and armor, and along one side of the hall, hundreds of horses stand. Yet the steeds are motionless in sleep. In stone chairs around stone tables sit the owners of the horses, the Knights of Blanik — this is the sleeping army of St. Wenceslaus. This chamber is at the center of a Divine regio that covers the mountain. Bohemia’s patron saint and former duke, Wenceslaus, was murdered by his pagan brother Boleslav in the early 10th century. It is foretold that, when the Czech people are in the time of their direst need, St. Wenceslaus will rise from''

[|

==The Slavs==

''The founders of the Slavic peoples were three brothers: Czech, Lech, and Rus. They set out on an epic journey with their tribes to ﬁnd new lands in which to live. Upon reaching the River Dnieper, Rus proclaimed that he had found a suitable territory and he settled there with his tribe, the Russians. The remaining two brothers continued for many miles. Climbing the top of the Rip hill, the ancestor Czech espied a rich land overﬂowing with milk and honey. His tribe, the Czechs, settled there, in Bohemia. The last brother Lech continued on and settled in Poland.''

==The Slave Trade==

''Prague is home to a large slave market. The word “slave” derives from “slav,” since the Slavic lands are the principal source of these unfortunates who are sold into captivity. The Church forbids making Christians into slaves. The trade in slaves is controlled by the Knights of the Sword, and is a lucrative source of income, helping to fund their corrupt expansionary and missionary campaign in Pomerania and beyond. They transport the slaves to Prague and sell them to Jewish merchants, who then transport them to Muslim lands and sell them again. An unremarkable slave may be purchased for as little as a few schillings — less than a decent horse — although individuals with exceptional skills, physique, or appearance may easily fetch ten times as much. As a general rule, the younger, healthier, and stronger the slave is, the more he or she may be sold for. In the market may be spotted a dubious fellow by the name of Ladislaus. He is, in fact, a trusted companion of Roznov covenant (see below) and uses his Magic Sensitivity to spot and ﬁlter out any Gifted children among the slaves. They then ﬁnd themselves delivered to Coeris, the domus magna of House Tremere in the Transylvanian Tribunal. Other slaves are traded or employed by Roznov.''

===New Major Status Flaw: Slave===

''Likely of Slavic origin, you have at some time in your past been sold into captivity and transported to a land beyond your original home. As a possession of your master, you are beholden to his or her will completely, and are only likely to earn your freedom through some exceptional act of service, if ever. Disobedience, on the other hand, will earn you very severe punishment, possibly even death. You have no belongings of consequence, except that which is given to you by your master. Playing a slave will prove to be challenging, and may be difﬁcult unless your master is another player character.''

===New Minor General Virtue: Slave-owner===

''You are the owner of one slave. Unless the slave is another player character, your slave will be largely unskilled, and be suitable only as a personal servant. While it is legal to own a slave in Germany, it is frowned upon by the Church and you are likely to receive negative attention in most major cities. You may free your slave at any time, in which case you lose this Virtue. You also lose this Virtue if your slave is killed. You may take this Virtue multiple times.''

|]
''the dead, take up the legendary sword of Bruncvik, and come to Mount Blanik to awaken and call forth his army.''

==Kutna Mine==

''A couple of dozen miles to the southeast of Prague is the Cistercian monastery of Sedlec, founded in 1142. A monk by the name of Anton took a nap one afternoon after a hard morning’s work in the''
''vineyard. When he awoke, he saw that three rods of silver had sprouted up next to his head. He left behind his kutna (frock) to mark the spot, and returned excitedly to the monastery to report his discovery. The monks have recently opened up a silver mine at the spot, and it appears to have fantastically rich deposits. If your saga follows real history, the town of Kutna springs up in a chaotic rush around the mines in the latter half of the 13th century, later growing to become a wealthy royal town, taking over the role''
''of Goslar in producing a signiﬁcant proportion of the empire’s silver.''

==The Bohemian Forest==

''Nearly as massive in terms of area as the Black Forest, the Bohemian Forest is safe from the incursion of man due to its generally harsh climate, as well as its numerous peat bogs, swamps, and marshes. It is the haunt of lynx, wolves, and deer, as well as giants. In the northern reaches the forest is open beech woodland, but once the lower slopes of the mountains that form the spine of the forest are reached the beech and chestnut give way to birch and evergreen forest. The south is in the rain-shadow of the Alps, and this is where most of the standing water is to be found, shrouded with water-loving trees like willow and alder mixed in with the pine. Other trees are left stunted by the waterlogged soil and often rot and die, lending to the sinister atmosphere of the region. The western mountains are drier and more normal woodland prevails, giving way to pine and ﬁr on the higher slopes. The powers and personality of this mighty forest have been left to the storyguide to devise.''

==The Giants’ Castle==

''Obri Hrad (Giants’ Castle) is the remains of a primeval Celtic fortress on the edge of the Bohemian Forest in the south of the land. A hilltop landscape overlooking the River Losenice is covered with large fractured rocks, originally gathered here by giants. The hill has a Magic aura of 3, and thus might make a suitable''

[|

==Story Seed: The Silver Rush==

''Immediately after the discovery of the silver deposits at Kutna, a mysterious but far-sighted magus purchases the land from the monastery for a nominal fee. A covenant or chapter house is erected here, and its magi begin to secretly mine vast amounts of silver with the aid of magic. As they spend this silver proﬂigately, the merchants of Bohemia begin to notice an inﬂation of prices and the Quaesitores of the Tribunal begin to take a dim view.''

|]
''covenant site, although it is possible that the giants of the Bohemian Forest still visit occasionally.''

==Irencillia==

''Immutable in the depths of rivers, In the eternal twilight of forests, The spirits of the old days live on — inscription above the gate to Irencillia''
''Irencillia, the domus magna of House Merinita, hidden deep in faerie woods, was founded when this area was wild and uncivilized. Due to the meddling of members of the covenant the area is still largely untouched, and Irencillia has a timeless quality, seemingly unaffecte by the pas''
''sage of years. The encroachment of humans into traditionally faerie areas has caused members of House Merinita to come to their domus magna in larger numbers, and the Autumn covenant has never been as large as it is now. Irencillia has little to do with the politics of the area or of the Tribunal as a whole, preferring seclusion above all else.''

==History==

''Irencillia was never the home of Merinita herself, contrary to current belief. It was established by Quendalon, second Primus of the House, when he returned from Arcadia and turned House Merinita towards the path of the fae. Since that time the covenant has remained unchanged — and ever changing.''

==Setting and Physical Description==

''Irencillia is located in the northern stretches of the Bohemian Forest, bordering the Bohemian plain. Primarily composed of beech and oak, this part of the forest does not have dense undergrowth, just an expanse of brown leaves beneath the wide green canopy of the trees. Lowgrowing shrubs are discouraged by the numerous fallow deer who dwell here, and wild boar root around in the leaf litter searching for acorns, beechmast, and mushrooms. There are only a few wolves, who prefer the cover in the denser southern and eastern reaches. Lynx and bears are relatively common. Many people approaching Irencillia for the ﬁrst time expect to see a faerie castle built out of living wood, populated by elegant courtiers; this is exactly what they see. Other, more practical heads expect a forest hamlet, peopled by foresters wearing oak-green and earth-brown; once again, this is precisely what they see. Mixed groups of visitors, each with their own preconceptions, see different things before them. Some might see a wooded hill with a trilithon leading to an underground labyrinth. Others might experience a narrow gully whose high walls are dotted with cave entrances populated by humans with twisted forms. Wanderers through the region who do not know of the covenant’s existence see what they expect as well — nothing but open expanses of woodland. This curious prop''
''erty of the covenant has existed for many centuries, and no-one knows whether it is a spell, a faerie power, or something else. All views of the covenant have a few features in common. Some form of boundary surrounds the entire covenant, whether this be a wooden palisade, a drystone wall, or a tall thorny hedge. Through this wall there is a single gateway that may or may not have a door, above which is an inscription (which may be elegantly carved into stone, roughly scratched into a plank of wood, or otherwise etched), said to be the last words uttered by Merinita before her disappearance in 785 AD. The different appearance of the covenant to each visitor is more than just visual illusion — it is a peculiar faerie glamour that causes the actual experience of the covenant to differ between individuals. A wall that feels like smooth marble to one person will be living woven withies to another, and if one plucks a leaf, the other character will swear blind that it is a chip of marble. Likewise, the covenfolk will appear different. A character experiencing an underground tumulus will ﬁnd the covenfolk to be short, squat, and ugly, and might get strange looks from those seeing the covenant as a faerie castle, as they will seem to be talking to the chest of a tall lady of the court. The covenfolk seem oblivious to these inconsistencies, but then, it is impossible to tell precisely what version of Irencillia they are experiencing! Presumably, this effect should be stopped by sufﬁciently strong magic resistance, although no Hermetic magus has ever reported this occurring — but then, it would be difﬁcult to know if the view you were seeing was the real one, anyway. If a piece of Irencillia’s physical structure is removed from its aura, it will turn into dust, dried leaves, and twigs once the sun rises or sets. No one ever forms the same global picture of Irencillia — it is impossible to''

[|

==The Maddenhofen Woods==

''This name is given to a stretch of woods on the northwestern fringe of the Bohemian Forest by the members of House Merinita. Irencillia is particularly protective of these woodlands, although they do not apparently collect vis here. The woods are wellknown due to the disappearance of Tytalus here in 807 AD, who claimed he was planning to face the Queen of all the Fae. While followers of Merinita scoff that such a Queen would ever exist, a powerful faerie does indeed live in the Maddenhofen Woods. She is capable of granting one’s Heart’s Desire, but those who ask must afterwards perform a task for her; and as yet, no one has ever completed one of these tasks.''

==Story Seed: The Return of Tytalus==

''A young follower of Tytalus enters the Maddenhofen Woods, determined to ﬁnd her Founder. This Heart’s Desire is granted, and while she attempts to complete her task, Tytalus himself emerges from the woods, protected from the centuries by its Stasis power. What could his Heart’s Desire have been, and now that he has it, what will he do with it?''

|]
''construct a map of the place that would be of any use to another. Some areas have a “ﬁrm reality” where a consensus picture has emerged: the sancta of the magi, for example. Each magus has a ﬁrm idea of what their own sanctum looks like, and this reality fairly quickly establishes itself. The sancta become highly personalized, taking the form of castles, town-houses, mysterious gardens, barrows, and so on. To a lesser extent, important communal covenant areas (such as the library, council chamber, and dining hall) take on a consensus. The other details, the connecting paths or walkways, and the conﬁguration and placement of buildings always remain highly subject to personal interpretation. The Faerie aura of Irencillia is highly patchy. All areas within the boundary wall have an aura of at least 1, and sancta have been established where the aura is strongest (up to a strength of 6), but the strangest places can have unexpectedly high aura values. For example, a covered walkway that leads to the kitchens has a Faerie aura of 4 along its length. Some (but by no means all) of the patches of high Faerie aura reside within a regio; most of the sancta of the magi fall into this category. Each regio entrance is marked with a symbol, such as a badger’s head or a crescent moon. The meaning of these symbols is not readily understood by outsiders. It is theorized that the scattered aura and fragmented regiones of Irencillia are the product of an immense magical out-pouring; those who know the early history of the House will realize that the war between Quendalon and Myanar was just such an event.''
''Those not expecting to find a covenant in the midst of the Bohemian Forest will not see it. Nevertheless, these rare visitors will wander through its halls, seeing only dense undergrowth and the occasional forest animal. Such visitors are strictly avoided by Irencillia’s inhabitants, and eventually they will ﬁnd the exit and wander out, none the wiser.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Irencillia consists of two co-existing cultures, human and fae. Every magus resident at Irencillia has a “double” in the faerie court. These fae partners do not necessarily resemble their human counterparts closely, but it is usually easy to match faerie with magus. For example, a faerie double might adopt the same style of clothing as his counterpart, or resemble his familiar. He may have the same identiﬁable feature, such as a birth-mark or long nose. Inhabitants of Irencillia refer to these faeries as caricatures, and soon grow to ignore them. The caricatures lead lives separate from their humans, but they will often be found dining together, or standing near each other at public events, even though they are seemingly ignoring each other’s presence. Any magus who lives at Irencillia for more than a season will gain a caricature, raised from the ranks of the servant-folk. The prospective copy will begin by shadowing his target for a season, gradually adopting the target’s mannerisms and changing his appearance. At the end of this time, the caricature is complete and the two return to independent existence. This process can be quite spooky, even for Merinita who haven’t been apprenticed at Irencillia. Upon the death or departure of a magus, his caricature will return to the ranks of the covenfolk and gradually lose its individuality. In game terms, every long-term resident of Irencillia gains the Faerie Friend Flaw for the duration of his or her visit. The Faerie Might of a caricature varies. It often becomes higher over time, up to a maximum determined by the status of the magus at Irencillia. This status does not necessarily equate with magical power, although old magi do tend to have powerful caricatures. Political power or a deep understanding of faerie ways can also cause caricatures to become strong. Some magi who revel in their caricatures by adopting their mannerisms and personalities have found in return that they become quite closely tied to their faerie copy. The two may become more difﬁcult''
''to distinguish from each other, and become Arcane Connections to each other.''

==Magi==


===Handri, Primus of House Merinita===

''Age: 81 (Master) Personality Traits: Obsessively Secretive +6, Indecisive +1, Secure in Position –2''
''Handri, the Primus of House Merinita, is a secretive man who shares his concerns and plans with only his most trusted advisors. Whereas his predecessor Vinaria encouraged political dialogue with the Primi of other Houses, Handri has turned his attentions wholly to the faeries, conducting long private diplomatic missions into faerie areas. Rumors suggest that he has even met with survivors of House Diedne. Handri is equally secretive about his magical abilities — none can be found who have witnessed him using magic (or will admit to having witnessed it) apart from his signature spell, which earned him the status of master (see Chapter 3: The Rhine Tribunal, Upon being a Rhine magus). Handri has been a magus for about six decades and has trained two apprentices, Iacob and Beechleaf (see Chapter 8: Central Germany, Fengheld), but has not yet (apparently) sought the status of archmage. His caricature is the Queen of''

[|

==The Lost Domus Magna==

''Merinita was descended from the Roman priestesses of Diana who penetrated the German wilderness while the priests of Mercury tried to build their walls around it. She was the last priestess; the cult was in its ﬁnal death throes due to the waves of Christianization following Charlemagne’s conquests, and it took all of Trianoma’s persuasive power to draw her from her temple to join the Order. Irencillia was not her original home, however; rather, it was built by Quendalon. The House knows that Irencillia was not the temple to Diana, but they do not remember where the original temple is, nor what it was called.''

==Story Seeds: Caricatures==

''A caricature is kidnapped, and used to exact revenge upon the magus to whom it has adopted, by exploiting the Arcane Connection between the two. One of the magi of Irencillia is occupied with an important project, with no time to attend the Tribunal gathering, and so sends his caricature in his stead, with some basic instructions. It remains to be seen whether the caricature will be able to successfully impersonate the magus, and avoid getting into mischief.''

|]
''Irencillia’s fae, an imperious-looking woman by the name of Rosmert. The caricature of the Primus is always the monarch of the Faerie Court, but whether there is a single, shape-shifting ruler or whether the king or queen changes as regularly as the Primus remains unknown.''

===Vinaria, follower of Merinita===

''Age: 97 (Archmage)''
''Personality Traits: Enigmatic +3, SelfAssured +3, Hostile –3''
''Vinaria was the previous Prima of the House, but she stepped down after being outmaneuvered in its politics by her successor, Handri. Initially, it was claimed that she had entered “Faerie Twilight,” but seven years later she returned with no apparent change in her appearance or personality. Secretly, Handri is scared of her — since her return he feels that she has an inner strength that never existed before.''
''He avoids her at all costs, and even allows her to do what she wants without interference. Vinaria is politically strong — in her days as Prima, she held long councils with many of the other Primi, and is exceptionally good at manipulating these contacts to her own ends. Her caricature was the faerie king of Irencillia, who is now Handri’s caricature; since her return, she has mysteriously not acquired another, which is another cause of unease for Handri. Her magic is particularly strong in the raw elemental arts, although her''

[|
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 23 (23) (Journeyman) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Conﬁdence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Flawless Magic; Deft Art (Herbam), Elder Gild Trained, Knight, Skilled Parens, Special Circumstances (When riding); Creative Block; Deleterious Circumstances (in city), Magical Animal Companion, Reckless, Short Lived Magic, Vow (Chivalry) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Honorable +3, Deep Thinker -2 Reputations: None Combat: Greatsword: Init -1, Attack +8, Defense +4, Damage +10 Lance (mounted): Init -1, Attack +11, Defense +6, Damage +6 Fist: Init -3, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +1 Soak: +8 (full metal scale), +5 (half metal scale) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (steeds), Artes Liberales 1 (writing poetry), Brawl 3 (punch), Charm 1 (ladies), Code of Hermes 1 (fae), Concentration 1 (Herbam spells), Etiquette 2 (fae), Faerie Lore 2 (knights), Faerie Magic 2 (Herbam spells), Finesse 1 (Rego), High German 5 (ﬂowery language), Great Weapon 2 (Lance), Latin 4 (about plants), Magic Theory 4 (recognizing spells), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (Elder Gild), Parma''
''Magica 2 (Rego spells), Penetration 1 (Rego), Ride 2 (Kervus) Arts: Cr 6, In 1, Mu 7, Pe 0, Re 10; An 3, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 3, He 10, Ig 0, Im 1, Me 0, Te 6, Vi 3 Twilight Scars: None. Equipment: Half scale mail (made in bronze), great sword, lance. Encumbrance: 3 (4) Spells Known: Soothe the Ferocious Boar (ReAn 10) +15, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +11, Mastery 1 (Multiple Casting) Bridge of Wood (CrHe 20) +18, Mastery 1 (Still Casting) Transformation of the Thorny Staff (MuHe 10) +19, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Piercing Shaft of Wood (Mu(Re)He 15) +19, Mastery 1 (Multiple Casting)''
''Repel the Wooden Shafts (ReHe 10) +22, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Strike of the Angered Branch (ReHe 15) +22, Mastery 1 (Multiple Casting) The Treacherous Spear (ReHe 15) +22, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Coils of Entangling Plants (ReHe 20) +22, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Eyes of the Treacherous Terrain (InTe 15) +9, Mastery 1 (Still Casting) Wielding the Invisible Sling (ReTe 10) +18, Mastery 1 (Multiple Casting) Appearance: A young, robust-looking magus, with flowing golden locks and a sun-burnt youthful face. He is invariably dressed in ornate bronze scale armor polished to mirror-brightness, but never wears a helm. He carries a shield with his device (a white ﬁeld with a green sycamore leaf), and a lance. His caricature has taken the form of a huge stag called Kervus who is capable of bearing his weight, and Ioannes rides him everywhere, even practicing his jousting from atop this magniﬁcent beast. When not mounted, he usually removes part of his armor.''
''Ioannes Acer is the youngest apprentice of Archmage Vinaria, freshlyGauntletted. He is young, idealistic, and bound up in a romantic notion of chivalry and honor which that not serve him well should he leave the protective atmosphere of Irencillia. Note that his status as Knight (and its accompanying Vow of Chivalry) has been granted by a Faerie Court, not by a mundane one. Secular lords (should he come into contact with them) will recognize his status, as long as they do not probe too deeply into the identity of his liege. Ioannes would make a suitable player character.''

==Ioannes Acer, follower of Merinita==


|]
''spells are always clothed in beautiful glamour.''

===Glesig, follower of Merinita===

''Age: 62 (Master) Personality Traits: Impatient +2, Friendly +1, Tolerant of Fools –2''
''Glesig is considered to be the member of House Merinita who is most versed in the subterranean fae. She is a massiveboned maga with plain features, although her hair appears to be made of threads of shining copper due to Twilight. Naturally, she specializes in Terram magics. Her caricature, Humnel, has taken the seeming of an immense troll, and Glesig has made him into her faerie familiar. Humnel is very protective of his mistress and particularly dislikes her being insulted.''

===Iacob, follower of Merinita===

''Age: 43 (Master) Personality Traits: Independent +2, Suspicious +1, Talkative –2''
''Iacob ﬁlius Handri is the most politically active magus of Irencillia (excepting perhaps Vinaria), being the somewhat precocious leader of the Elder Gild. He is also in charge of a secret project conceived by Handri upon his succession to the position of Primus of House Merinita — to establish a religion in the name of the fae. Iacob is careful not to reveal any magical powers to the mundanes; nevertheless, should the Quaesitores ﬁnd out about the scheme they will be deeply unhappy. Iacob is a master of Mentem magics, achieving that rank at a notably young age, and has invented a number of spells that implant thoughts and ideas in the minds of his targets. He is a tall man, apparently in his early thirties (but actually a decade older), who has a charming personality and an almost hypnotic voice. His caricature is Nestor, a white crow who accompanies him on his travels.''

===Gravis, follower of Bonisagus===

''Age: 33 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Cheerful +2, Driven +2, Sensitive +1''
''Gravis has come to Irencillia to pursue his life-long fascination with the fae. He is from House Bonisagus, and has found it particularly frustrating that he has been unable to grasp even the basics of Faerie Magic, despite having a knowledge of Faerie Lore that exceeds that of many Merinita magi. Gravis has avoided becoming bitter, however, and still works toward his goal. His caricature Danket is almost his opposite; a grumpy, stick-thin dwarf with a perpetual scowl that contrasts with Gravis’ chubby frame and sunny disposition.''

===Richenda Spinosa, follower of Flambeau===

''Age: 28 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Bitter +3, Prickly +2, Fae –2''
''Richenda is a very atypical member of House Flambeau. As an apprentice she showed a great aptitude for ﬂame-magics, but it was unknown to her master (Indulius of Fengheld) that this was due to her secret faerie heritage, descended as she was from Kupala, a faerie lord who guards the Fire Flower in Slavic lands. Her master’s bungling (in her opinion) scarred her Gift, and she was left unable to use ﬁre magics except with great difﬁculty. Her natural aptitude for Herbam made her a laughing stock in her House, particularly when they learned that she had faerie blood. Richenda has become a very angry young maga with an afﬁnity for spells involving thorns, and has sworn vengeance on her master. She has not fully come to terms with her fae side, although her caricature Jennis is helping here; he appears to be a male version of the Polish maga, and they have learned much from each other.''

===Other Magi===

''There are three other magi at Irencillia, all members of House Merinita. The storyguide should let his or her creativity run wild with these magi (and their caricatures) — they are likely to be both powerful and eccentric.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk of Irencillia seem to be an anonymous group. None really stand out from any of the others, and they''
''are as unobtrusive as possible, ignored in the main by magi and their caricatures alike. Their actual appearance depends upon what version of Irencillia is being experienced — they may be a squad of goblin-like creatures, else they might be elﬁn ladies dressed in pastel shades, or hairy outdoorsmen with more than a little animal blood in them. They are either humans with faerie blood or faeries who have dwelt too long among humans — they have lived at Irencillia among both peoples for so long now that it is impossible to tell. All have a Faerie Might of around 10, and some minor magical ability related to their job; thus, cleaners can animate brooms and pans to ease their work, cooks can make tasty meals out of meager pickings, and the librarian can cause books to come to him at a gesture. None of these powers rate as more than a ﬁrst magnitude spell. No-one has ever reported the same covenfolk taking different appearances; as soon as one is identiﬁed uniquely from his fellows, he will always appear that way in future. The''

[|

==The God of Truth==

''In the last decade, a new religion has sprung up in the villages near the Bohemian Forest. It is a dualist faith: there is a God of Truth, who created the cosmos, and a God of Law, who created and rules the material world, but who cares not for its inhabitants. Proponents of the faith teach that the Church is in error, worshipping the stern God of Law rather than the God of Truth, who instead can only be found in the wild places of the world. The God of Truth is immaterial, unable to manifest in a world made and ruled by the cold god of the cities. Instead, he has sent his angels to show man the way. These angels are apparently what man calls faeries. The religion has no clear catechism other than a reverence for the wild and an abandonment of the churches; those churchmen who know of it are ﬁnding it difﬁcult to crush a religion with no clear leader and no obvious means of transmission. There is a leader, however. Stories tell of the Prophet Iacob, identiﬁed by the presence of an albino crow who always accompanies him. The arrival of the Prophet cannot be predicted, and no-one knows where he goes. He never preaches, but wherever he is seen the new religion seems to spontaneously arise.''

|]
''grogs of Irencillia are no different, although active duty has caused some to become more individual than others. Irencillia also employs a cadre of foresters who are more human than their other servants, primarily because they do not live in the covenant but rather in family groups in isolated forest bothies.''

==The Margravate of Moravia==

''Moravia is the eastern March of Bohemia, and the margrave is usually the Bohemian king’s son or brother. In 999 it became part of Poland under Boleslaus I, but since 1019 has been part of Bohemia. The province is bordered by the Carpathian Mountains and the kingdom of Hungary (part of the Transylvanian Tribunal) to the east, and through the center ﬂows the River Morava, which joins with the Danube in the duchy of Austria to the south.''

==Brünn==

''In the early 11th century, the castle of Brünn (Brno) and the church of St. Michael were founded on Petrov Hill, at the conﬂuence of the Svitava and Svratka rivers. This is the seat of the Premyslid rulers in Moravia, around which have grown up a market town and mines. A small handful of German settlers have recently arrived.''

===The Dragon of Brünn===

''Some generations ago, a dragon lived near Brünn in a cave by the River Svratka and tormented the local townsfolk, devouring them at his leisure. The council of the town offered a reward of a hundred pounds, but nobody knew how to get rid of him. One day a travelling butcher came to a local inn, where everybody was talking about the dragon. He listened for a while and then proclaimed that he could rid them of the beast, requesting a large ox pelt and a sack of unslaked lime. The townsfolk were dubious, but brought him''
''what he had asked for. The butcher sewed the lime into the ox pelt and took it away on a wagon. He laid the bait outside the dragon’s cave and waited. Sure enough, the dragon crept out and ate the pelt, washing down the meal with water from the river. The lime boiled up in his stomach unbearably until it burst, and the dragon was no more. The butcher claimed his reward and went on his way. Whether he really was just a plain butcher, or instead a wizard or magus in disguise, was never known. The carcass of the dragon was stuffed and now hangs in Brünn’s town hall.''

==Roznov==

''The Autumn covenant of Roznov, in the extreme east of Moravia bordering Hungary, is unusual in that it combines two strong, but entirely different traditions. Half of the covenant forms the pagan priesthood of the ancient Slavic god Radegast; the other half is an archconservative stronghold of House Tremere. The two halves of the covenant seem to be entirely independent of each other — although their political ambitions often coincide, it is not unusual for one half to be unaware of the schemes of the other, and to only learn about them through a third party. Roznov’s allegiance appears to be somewhat split between the Rhine Tribunal, which they attend, and the adjacent Tremere-dominated Transylvanian Tribunal, with which they are believed to maintain regular contact. As such, they are not really trusted by many of the other Rhine magi.''

==History==

''Roznov was settled in 1067 AD by three magi of House Ex Miscellanea. Due''
''to its location in the Carpathian Mountains it could have easily claimed membership of either the Novgorod Tribunal or the Transylvanian Tribunal instead of the Rhine. However, Durenmar and Crintera between them offered more resources than the other Tribunals, and Roznov was inducted into the Rhine Tribunal in 1074. Almost immediately thereafter the covenant accepted two new members, both followers of Tremere from the Transylvanian Tribunal. Some in the Rhine have suspected that this covenant’s founding was a ploy by House Tremere to acquire a beach-head in the Rhine Tribunal, and that the members of Ex Miscellanea were merely dupes. What is certain is that since Roznov’s founding they have grown to be a signiﬁcant political force in the Tribunal.''

==Setting and Physical Description==

''The covenant consists of two physical structures, both in the same valley at the edge of the Carpathian Mountains. A small castle with twinned towers enclosed by a curtain wall is located about two''

[|

==Story Seed: The Secret is Out==

''It seems remarkable that this covenant can have existed for so long with half of its members completely unaware of the annual human sacriﬁce perpetuated by the other half. There is clearly some supernatural agent at work here keeping mouths from blabbing. If Severicus and his ﬁlii were ever to discover what takes place every year up the mountain they would be horriﬁed and appalled. They might bring accusations of diabolism, attempt to pre-emptively March the pagan magi, or, if all this fails, declare Wizard War upon them. This could have repercussions both in the Rhine and the Transylvanian Tribunals. Alternatively, the Tremere really do know what is going on, but choose to ignore it. Given the attitude of House Tremere towards religion in general, and human sacriﬁce in particular (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages), this is highly unusual, suggesting that if this is the case then the Tremere have a very good reason for keeping quiet.''

|]
''thirds of the way up Mount Radhost. It dominates the valley that it overlooks, but is completely hidden from view from any other direction. This is the home of the covenant’s three members of House Ex Miscellanea. At the base of the mountain, controlling the only pass up to the castle, is a fort surrounded by a small village. Here the three followers of Tremere live along with most of the covenfolk, who occupy the village. These two sites are referred to as Roznov Castle and Roznov Fort, respectively, and are connected by tunnels that lead through the mountain. The whole valley has a Magic aura of 4.''

==Mount Radhost==

''The summit of Mount Radhost, at 3700 feet, is home to a crude stone temple that bears witness to the covenant’s rituals to Radegast. It has a Magic aura of 6. Every summer solstice the god is honored here by a great festival, in which all the covenfolk and villagers participate, with an orgiastic excess of drink and debauchery. This worship and revelry enables the magi of Roznov Castle to harvest dozens of pawns of vis; however, the ritual needs to be fuelled by the blood of human sacriﬁces. A small number of victims from among the celebrants are surreptitiously seized and taken into the temple. Their sacriﬁce is only witnessed by the most loyal servants of Igor Rastvan — the practice is never openly discussed — but most covenfolk can guess at the reason for the regular disappearances every summer. The blood of the sacriﬁces is harvested for Corpus vis.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''Archmage Igor Rastvan leads the covenfolk of Roznov in the worship of the pagan god Radegast; he is the high priest of the god, and attributes his power to the blessing of his deity. The Tremere magi of Roznov Fort are completely unaware of the exact nature of the annual festival on Mount Radhost, and have nothing to do with the pagan aspects of life at the covenant. Unusually for members of House Tremere, they do not discourage it or even  appear to disapprove of it.''

==Magi==


===Igor Rastvan, Magus Ex Miscellanea===

''Age: 101 (Archmage) Personality Traits: Devoted to Radegast +6, Overconﬁdent +2, Peaceful –2''
''Rastvan is about 80 years from his Gauntlet, but is still hale in body and (apparently) mind. He has black curly hair and a beard that reaches to his waist and has only a few wisps of gray. He wears elaborately embroidered robes at all times, which depict mythological scenes and denote his rank as priest of Radegast. Rastvan is the ﬁlius of one of the founders of Roznov, and possibly the only archmage of his House. His magic draws deeply from the Slavic traditions of cursing magic, and he is feared for his ability to slay his victims from afar. Many of his spells have a non-Hermetic ritual element that draws power from leading a pagan ceremony of many worshippers — the more worshippers, the more power he can achieve. Rastvan’s ambitions revolve around his god; he desires to assert dominance over the Slavic lands, united under the worship of Radegast. This obsession has grown stronger in recent years, and his ﬁlii fear that his overwhelming zeal is a symptom of a mind unhinged by Twilight.''

===Severicus, follower of Tremere===

''Age: 77 (Master) Personality Traits: Unyielding +3, Obsessive +2, Sympathetic –2''
''Severicus is a remarkably tall man, and thin as well. He is totally bald, but maintains a neat beard that is starting to grey with age. He is a noted master of Terram magics, and detests change in any way (magically, politically, or otherwise). Other than Stentorius of Fengheld, Severicus is the only member of House Tremere in the Rhine Tribunal to hold his own sigil, and controls about two-ﬁfths of the sigils of the other Tremere magi, including those of his two ﬁlii and that of Hygwald Veritas of Waddenzee.''

===Other Magi===

''Roznov has two other members of House Ex Miscellanea, both former apprentices of Igor. There are also two other members of House Tremere and a follower of Tytalus. All are members of the Ash or Oak Gilds.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk of Roznov are split into two. A score of servants and soldiers serve at the castle itself, the rest (about four times the number) remain below in the village, guarding the trail up to the mountain. There is a continual rotation of covenfolk between the two locations. Many of them are devotees of Radegast, but a signiﬁcant number are slaves, purchased by a representative of Roznov at the Prague market (see above). Given the rumored need for human sacriﬁces, who are usually taken from the slave population, they work with feverish diligence, hoping that the next call up to the castle will be as a result of their worth rather than their expendability. Some of the slaves achieve promotion to the turb and earn their freedom with a blood pledge of loyalty to the covenant. Among the companions of Roznov there are no less than three young men who believe themselves to be the rightful heirs to a “Kingdom of the Slavs,” and who dream of uniting their people and winning independence from German hegemony. The magi of Roznov encourage all three, reasoning that competition will make each even more driven towards the goal. As long as the kingdom that each plans is to be united under Radegast, Igor Rastvan has no favorites.''

[|

==Radegast==

''Radegast is an archetypal god of chieftainship and war, as well as fertility and harvest. His worship was, in ancient times, centered in Pomerania, but Mount Radhost was always a site sacred to him. His current devotees often have links to noble or “royal” pagan families, and may act as tribal or court advisors (Temporal Influence Virtue). Those he favors often display the Inspirational and Great Presence Virtues, as well as the Overconﬁdent Flaw. A possible saga plot involving Radegast is detailed in Chapter 11: Rhine Sagas, Between the Devil and the Deep Blue Sea.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
