''In the cold and distant lands far north of Mythic Europe, in the centuries following the death of Christ, a form of hedge magic developed that was based on simple carvings and inscriptions, using a special alphabet of letters called runes. Those who practiced this magic were known as the vitkir (pronounced “VITkear,” singular vitki, “VIT-kee,” and as an adjective vitkar, “VIT-kahr”), from a Scandinavian word meaning “wizards.” Their tradition likely originated in ancient Germany in the fifth century, and from there spread into Denmark, Scandinavia, Britannia, Iceland, and other parts of the world known only to the scholars of the time as Ultima Thule (“UL-tee-mah THOO-lay,” Latin for “the utmost north”).''
''There are said to be vitkir still living on the edges of Mythic Europe — hedge wizards that many magi refer to as members of the “Order of Odin” — though they are not as widespread as they once were. Some may live in remote and wild areas of the north, using their magic to survive the harsh climate. Others might live within or just outside of the Christian communities of Scandinavia, casting spells that make civilized people tolerate their presence. A few may have migrated or been driven south, or descend from vitkir who invaded and settled in Europe during the Viking raids about four hundred years ago, and have learned or rediscovered the magic of their ancestors in secret.''
''Vitkir as Characters''
''Vitkir characters are designed like magi, with only a few exceptions. That is, they must have The Gift, and they must spend about 15 years of their life apprenticed to a master who opens them to the 24 runes. (These are described below; they have an initial value of 0 and are Accelerated Abilities.) They receive a total of 240 experience points for these years of specialized study, at least half of which should be spent on their magical runes; and 120 levels of rune scripts, which are essentially spells. A score of 10 in a single rune is the practical maximum for a character who has just finished his apprenticeship. You should also spend 50 experience points for the character to learn Craft: Runes 2, Old Norse 3, and Rune Magic 1 — these are the minimum Abilities needed to effectively study and practice vitkar magic. They do not need to take Artes Liberales to read and write the runes, as long as they have a score of 2 in Craft: Runes; and a score of 3 in Old Norse is sufficient to understand and compose the necessary inscriptions. Vitkir characters may take as many as ten Flaws to balance ten Virtues, and there are several new Virtues and Flaws given in this chapter that only Gifted characters can take. These Supernatural Virtues and Flaws are the same as Hermetic Virtues and Flaws, but specifically apply to runes and vitkar rune magic. Also, many Hermetic Virtues and Flaws may be taken as Supernatural Virtues and Flaws that will affect the character’s rune magic instead. All vitkir characters must take the Vitki Social Status Virtue, and a vitki who was taught by another vitki gains a free Minor Vitkar Virtue appropriate to his master’s specialty, usually either Puissant Craft: Runes, Puissant Rune Magic, or Puissant (Rune).''
''Hedge Magic New or Revised Virtues''
''The vitkir have these new or revised virtues available to them:''
''Deft Rune Minor, Supernatural The vitki is particularly skilled with one rune. He suffers no penalty to his Casting Total when he does not inscribe his name or a description of the effect on a script that incorporates this rune. This Virtue may be taken more than once, each time with a different rune.''
''Fast Caster Minor, Supernatural The character can make a rune script much more quickly than other vitkir, accurately inscribing the runes in half the normal time. He can also fast-cast a rune spell, much the same way that magi can fast-cast spontaneous spells, though he must always leave off his name and the description of the effect, as there isn’t time to inscribe them.''
''Major Rune Focus Major, Supernatural The vitki has a magical focus in a type of rune magic, which is also associated with a particular material. Whenever the vitki inscribes runes into the proper material for an effect associated with the focus, you may double his score in the rune used for the script. (See the Vitkar Magic Foci sidebar for a list of these types and the materials associated with them.)''
''Mastered Rune Minor, Supernatural The character has mastered a single rune, reducing the frequency of magical accidents. Whenever he inscribes this rune in a rune script, your botch dice are reduced by three (to a minimum of one die), and all penalties to your casting rolls are halved. You may take this Virtue more than once, each time with a different rune.''
''Minor Rune Focus Minor, Supernatural The vitki has a magical focus with a single rune used in a particular type of rune magic (see the Vitkar Magic Foci sidebar). Whenever the vitki casts a rune spell with an effect appropriate to the focus and the chosen rune, and inscribes this rune into the material associated with the focus, you may double the vitki’s score in the rune used for the formula.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The Order of Odin''
''The phrase “Order of Odin” is used by magi to describe their idea of an organized group of Scandinavian wizards opposed to the Order of Hermes. It is not generally used by the vitkir. It dates back to the time of the war against Damhan-Allaidh, when there was a great deal of fear and uncertainty about these wizards and their growing power in the British Isles. (For a more-detailed history of the Anglo-Saxon rune wizards, see Ancient Magic, pages 133-136.) Since then, magi have heard next to nothing about them; whether or not they still pose a threat to the Order of Hermes is a question that can cause a Tribunal to devolve into a cacophony of voices for''
''and against. It’s generally accepted that the Order of Hermes is still at war with them, should any of them reappear, and since the Oath states that “the enemies of the Order are my enemies,” it’s argued that magi have a legal obligation to fight them. Whether or not that means a vitkir must be slain on sight probably depends on the judgment of the magus who encounters him. If there is indeed a gathering army of rune wizards intent on striking at the heart of the Order of Hermes from the frozen wastes of the north, the relatively isolated vitkir described here are probably as unlikely to know about it as the magi they supposedly seek to destroy.''
''Female Vitkir''
''The vitkir are always men in the stories and accounts of them, though this is probably because of the roles that men and women typically fulfill in Norse culture, rather than there being any reason why women cannot learn rune magic. There are many tales of women practicing other kinds of magic during the Viking period, especially as mystic seers and prophets. It is unlikely that vitkir masters would have taken girls as apprentices in years past, but as vitkir become scarcer they may be more willing to teach any children with The Gift who can be found.''
''Viking women also had a form of magic called seithr. This was a kind of witchcraft that the common folk considered to be wicked and unclean, and they shunned those who practiced it. While the magic of the runes was seen as a gift to men from Odin, seithr was first taught to women by a giantess named Gullveig, who was said to be so wicked that she introduced greed among the gods. For character ideas and rules for designing a character with this sort of power, see the different forms of corrupt magic and infernal hedge traditions found in Realms of Power: The Infernal.''
''Vitkar Virtues''

===Major, Supernatural===

''Gentle Gift Major Rune Focus* Mythic Blood Secondary Insight*''

===Minor, Supernatural===

''Affinity with (Rune) Cyclic Magic (positive) Deft Rune* Fast Caster* Free Study Inoffensive to Animals Inventive Genius''
''Life Boost Mastered Rune* Minor Rune Focus* Nameless Runes* Personal Vis Source Puissant (Rune) Secret Runes* Side Effect Special Circumstances''

===Free, Social Status===

''Vitki*''
''* New or revised Virtues''

|}
''Nameless Runes Minor, Supernatural The character may cast rune spells without inscribing his name into the script at no penalty, though he receives no benefit when he does. The runes still form a magical connection to him that other magic characters can detect with their spells and use to identify him, but it is not obvious to those who can read the writing on the stone.''
''Secondary Insight Major, Supernatural When the vitki is studying any of the runes, he also gains a single experience point in all of the other runes in that same aett. He may not put more than one bonus experience point into a single rune during the same season, even if he studies multiple runes, and if he studies runes from multiple aetts, he must choose which group of seven runes receives the bonus.''
''Secret Runes Minor, Supernatural The character may hide the runes that describe the effect of his rune scripts without suffering a penalty to his Casting Total, and taking only a –5 penalty when he does not describe the effect at all. He gains no benefit from inscribing the runes normally, but does receive a bonus when he exaggerates the runes. He may take this Virtue twice to eliminate the penalty altogether.''
''Vitki Free, Social Status The character is a Norse rune wizard, believed by magi to belong to a group called the Order of Odin. At one time he was respected and feared by other men living in the north, but now very few of his people even know his kind exists. He is still considered by many magi to be an enemy of the Order of Hermes, and those who discover what he is may try to hunt him down and kill him, or else attempt to''
''force him to teach them his magical secrets. Vitkir may take Arcane Abilities, Martial Abilities, or Academic Abilities during or after their apprenticeship, just like Hermetic magi, as long as these Abilities are appropriate to their masters’ backgrounds (for example, an academic vitki is unlikely to teach his apprentice Great Weapon, and a warrior vitki probably does not ensure his followers are well versed in Philosophiae). All vitkir must take this as their Social Status Virtue, and it is only available to them.''
''New or Revised Flaws''
''Vitki also have these new or revised flaws:''
''Major Magical Deficiency Major, Supernatural The vitki has a magical deficiency with all of the runes in a single aett. Whenever''
''Vitkar Magic Foci''
''A vitkar magic focus is associated with spells that have a particular purpose, such as healing, making war, or seeking knowledge, and is tied to a specific material into which the runes must be carved, such as bone, metal, or stone. If the spell is applicable to the vitki’s purpose and uses the proper material for the inscription, he may double his score in the rune used in the spell formula. For a Major focus, any rune with an effect applicable to the magical focus may be used. A Minor focus is tied to a single rune, chosen when the vitki gains the Virtue, and the vitki’s spells must use that rune as either the target rune or the effect rune for the focus to apply. Like a Hermetic magic focus, a vitki can only take a single vitkar magic focus at character creation. Here are some examples of magical foci, taken from the medieval poem Sigrdrifumál in which the valkyrie Sigrdrífa teaches the hero Sigurðr the seven different uses of rune magic.''
''Victory Runes (Sigrúnar): These runes are used to ensure the vitki’s success in battle, and are carved into metal weapons and armor, usually the blades of swords or long knives. Runes commonly associated with this sort of magic include Tiwaz (T), Othila (O), and Ehwaz (E).''
''Ale Runes (Olúnar): These runes must be scratched into horn or hardened leather, like a drinking horn, or else into the vitki’s own fingernails. They typically give good luck and protect the vitki against poison or other hidden forms of danger; a minor focus might be associated with Algiz (Z), Naudiz (N), or Perth (P). Fertility Runes (Biargrúnar): These runes help to ensure the wealth and prosperity of the vitki and his family, and are carved into coins that they carry or jewelry that they wear. Common runes for this sort of magic include Fehu (F), Ingwaz (Ng), and Jera (J). Sea Runes (Brimrúnar): These runes are traditionally inscribed on a ship, carved into a cart, or woven into a sail: any object that is bigger than a man is possible. They allow the vitki to influence travel and travel conditions with his runes. For a minor focus, the runes Laguz (L), Raido (R), or Hagalaz (H) might be appropriate. Healing Runes (Limrúnar): These runes speed recovery from pain and injury, healing wounds and easing sorrow. They must be carved into bone, either human or animal. Runes commonly chosen for a minor focus include Berkanan (B), Dagaz (D), or Wunjo (W). Speech Runes (Malrúnar): These runes''
''must be carved into wood: a staff, a tree, a chest, or perhaps a table. They give eloquence and inspire others, and are used to improve the vitki’s relations with his fellow vitkir or his companions. For a minor focus, this might include the Ansuz (A), Gebo (G), or Mannaz (M) runes. Wisdom Runes (Hugrúnar): Wisdom runes are carved into stone, and are used to help the vitki gain wisdom by sensing hidden properties of his surroundings. A vitki’s minor rune focus might be associated with Ihwaz (Y), Sowilo (S), or Kauno (K). Strength Runes (Meginrúnar): Strength runes are associated with the magic of the wilderness and with dark, supernatural forces. Sigrdrífa did not teach Sigurðr about this type of rune magic, but the Sigrdrifumál describes it as runes that the gods inscribe on impossible things, such as mead, fire, the heart, or the sky. Strength runes could be written upon flesh, since it is said that only the gods are allowed to inscribe runes upon a living body. Of course vitkir with this focus may choose to ignore this commandment, or might instead carve strength runes upon the dead. For a minor focus, Uruz (U), Thurisaz (Th), or Isa (I) might be appropriate.''
''one of his rune scripts includes one of these runes, his casting total is halved. Or, the vitki may have a grave deficiency with three runes, such that he cannot use those runes in any of his spells.''
''Minor Magical Deficiency Minor, Supernatural The vitki has a deficiency with three of the runes. Whenever one of his rune scripts includes these runes, his casting total is halved. Or, the vitki may have a grave deficiency with a single rune, such that he cannot use it in any of his spells.''
''Nátt-thel Prone Major, Supernatural The vitki is particularly susceptible to being overwhelmed by the power of magic, and suffers the effects of Nátt-thel (described later) any time you roll a single supernatural botch, rather than a double botch.''
''Short-Lived Runes Major, Supernatural The magic in the vitki’s runes naturally fades, and unlike other rune spells is not permanent as long as the rune is not damaged. The storyguide should secretly roll a stress die (no botch) on the Nátt-thel Duration Chart to determine how long any given effect lasts. The vitki can spend Confidence or vis to lengthen the duration, as well as to increase his casting total. The storyguide should add 1 to this duration roll for each pawn or Point spent for this purpose during the casting.''
''Slow Caster Minor, Supernatural The vitki’s rune scripts require much more time to prepare and execute than that of other vitki, taking him twice as long to carve. It is impossible for him to produce an effect in a single round, though he can manage a hasty spell in two rounds if he takes the –15 penalty and leaves off his name and the description of the effect.''
''New Abilities''
''These new abilities are also available:''

===Craft: Runes===

''The vitki can carve or inscribe the runic alphabet into many different types of''
''material, and this Ability describes the skill with which he does so. This can be used to determine how long the runes last, and also affects the skill with which the vitki may hide the runes in a rune script. Specialties: Carving or inscribing a particular material, hiding runes.''

===Rune Magic===

''This is knowledge of what the magic of the vitkir is and how it works. It deals with the technical details of each rune, how they may be used, and how to formulate a rune script. Anyone can learn Rune Magic if they have access to a teacher, but it is very little use to those who do not have The Gift. (If the players have Ancient Magic, this and the Rune Magic Ability described on page 140 of that book are basically the same, and may be substituted for each other.) Specialties: A single rune, teaching scripts, opening the runes, reading hidden runes. (Arcane)''
''Nátt-thel''
''(Pronounced “NOT-thull,” with an unvoiced “th” like in “thud”) The vitkir do not go into Wizard’s Twilight when exposed to Warping as magi do, as Twilight is only experienced by those who study Hermetic magic. Instead, vitkir experience Nátt-thel, which comes from a Norse word that means “darkest part of night.” During this period, the vitki loses The Gift, leaving him vulnerable and humbled, completely without his magic and other powers associated with it. Whenever a vitki gains 2 or more Warping Points from a single event, rather than from prolonged exposure, he must first add them to his current total (which might increase his Warping Score), and then make a Stamina + Concentration roll. The Ease Factor for this roll is the vitki’s (Warping Score x 3). The vitki must concentrate for about two minutes while trying to control his magic in''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Vitkar Flaws''

===Major, Supernatural===

''Blatant Gift Major Magical Deficiency* Magic Addiction Nátt-thel Prone* Painful Magic Restriction''

===Minor, Supernatural===

''Careless Sorcerer Cyclic Magic (negative)''
''Deleterious Circumstances Disorienting Magic Minor Magical Deficiency* Offensive to Animals Short-Lived Runes* Slow Caster Susceptibility to Divine Power Susceptibility to Faerie Power Susceptibility to Infernal Power Warped Magic Weird Magic''
''* New or revised Flaws''
''The Rune Poems''
''Characters who are interested in learning about the magic of the vitkir can track down a study source in the form of a “rune poem” — one of the rare and valuable works written by the vitkir to teach their followers the basics of rune carving and their magic. These texts name each rune and give a brief description in verse. The verses are typically four lines long, one verse for each rune, and describe the rune’s mystical properties through imagery. For example, “Wealth / source of discord among kinsmen / and fire of the sea''
''/ and path of the serpent” or “Hail / cold grain / and shower of sleet / and sickness of serpents.” There are three texts that have spread far enough from the vitkir that they might be found in Mythic Europe: the Icelandic Rune Poem and the Norwegian Rune Poem, both of which use the Younger Futhark alphabet (see The Runes, Modified Runes, later in this chapter, and the Anglo-Saxon Rune Poem, which uses the Futhorc and was translated into Latin by Christian monks, though with many revisions to the text.''

|}
''this way, and any interruptions increase the difficulty (the player should add the Ease Factor from the Concentration Table in ArM5, page 82).''

===Nátt-thel Avoidance: Stamina + Concentration + Stress Die Vs. (Warping Score X 3)===

''If the roll succeeds, nothing else happens; the vitki regains control of his magic. If the roll fails, or if the vitki is unable to concentrate on avoiding the Nátt-thel for some reason, all of his magical effects immediately end as if the associated runes had been erased or damaged, and he loses The Gift (though not the social penalties that go with it) and the use of all of his vitkar Virtues and Flaws until his Nátt-thel is over. To determine the''
''length of time that must pass before the vitki can work magic again, the storyguide should roll a simple die and add it the character’s Warping Score, consulting the following chart to get the base duration.''

===Nátt-thel Duration Roll: Simple Die + Warping Score===

''Duration Roll Base Duration  0 Moments  3 Diameters  6 Suns  9 Moons  12 Years  15 Unknown*''
''* 	 The storyguide should choose a duration exceeding a year that’s appropriate.''
''The duration roll determines the base unit of measurement for the Nátt-thel, and this is multiplied by the number of Warping Points that the vitki gained to trigger the episode. For example, a vitki with a Warping Score of 3 gains 2 Warping Points and fails his Avoidance roll. The storyguide secretly rolls a 6 on the Duration roll, which is added to his Warping Score of 3 to yield a base duration of 9, or Moons. He gained 2 Warping Points, so he will be without his Gift until two Moons have passed. At the moment he realizes he has lost control, the vitki can project some of his power into one or more of his active rune spells, ensuring that their effects will continue during the period he is without his magic. Doing this lengthens the duration of the Nátt-thel, but guarantees that at least some of his magic will remain behind. This gives the vitki an additional Warping Point for each effect he wishes to protect. Note that these additional Warping Points might increase the character’s Warping Score, which would affect the results of the Nátt-thel Duration roll, and that they also contribute to the number of Warping Points gained, which increases the multiplier and ensures that the Nátt-thel lasts even longer.''
''Learning Vitkar Magic''
''A vitki may teach his powers to a laering (LYE-ring, “apprentice”) as long as the student has The Gift. He must spend a season instructing his student, which gives the new vitki a score of 0 in all the runes (described under The Runes). This is called “opening the runes,” like Hermetic magi “open the Arts.” If the student already has any Supernatural Virtues or Abilities, the vitki’s Opening Total is his Intelligence + Rune Magic + lowest rune + aura. If the master has a score of less than 2 in any runes when they are opened, the laering gains a Minor Magical Deficiency Flaw with that rune. The runes can still be opened if the master is in Náttthel or has lost his Gift through Nátt-thel, though in that case the laering also gains the Nátt-thel Prone Flaw. After about five years learning from the same instructor, a laering typically gains a Minor Virtue appropriate to his master’s specialty, usually a Puissant Rune or Puissant Ability. Supernatural Virtues that apply only to vitkar magic can be assumed to manifest after The Gift has been opened. Vitkir can study their runes in all the same ways that magi learn Hermetic magic:''
''Odin’s Sacrifice''
''It is said that Odin originally learned the runes through a special ritual in which he was hanged by his neck from an ash tree and stabbed in the side with a spear. After nine days of this torture, Odin had a vision in which he saw the runes and understood their power. Many vitkir believe that a person who undertakes this ordeal and succeeds can open the runes, just as an apprentice does with his master. They also say that if he does not already possess the power, the ritual gives the seeker The Gift. A character interested in undertaking Odin’s sacrifice must discover some means by which to survive nine days without food, water, or air. He must have his side pierced with the spear (suffering a Medium Wound) and remain hung upon the tree for nine days without being moved, wounded further, or affected by supernatural powers. At the conclusion of the ritual, he must make an Intelligence + Concentration stress roll, to which he adds the aura bonus or penalty for Magic. If he achieves a total of 24 or more, he gains The Gift, or opens his scores in all of the vitkar runes if he already has The Gift, or gains another Major Virtue if he has already been opened to the runes. (This does not remove a viktir from Nátt-thel or restore his Gift, though it might give him a new Supernatural Ability he can use.) A character can only perform this ritual once in his lifetime. It is said that in ancient times the gods knew how to brew a potion from raw vis,''
''mead, herbs, blood, and other more-exotic materials that would allow a person to survive the ordeal by placing him in a comatose state for nine days, during which time he would appear to be dead. If a character manages to discover the recipe, he will experience strange visions during the ritual, and does not need to apply Wound or Fatigue penalties to his Concentration roll. When he awakens from unconsciousness, he must recover all of his Fatigue levels as if from long-term fatigue. The strength of the potion also gives him a bonus to his Concentration of +1 for every pawn of vis used to brew it. However, once the ritual is complete, he must also roll one botch die for each pawn, as if he had botched a roll, and any 0s represent permanent physical or mental Flaws. Such potions are not easy to brew, and according to the legends they usually require seeking out one of the gods or the alfar (pronounced “ALF-ar,” roughly meaning “the elves”) for mystical insight into the appropriate ingredients for a given person. Traditionally, this advice always comes with a price. Ingredients might include mythical concepts such as the breath of a fish, stubble from a woman’s beard, the promise of a liar, or the ears of a bird. Often the potion must be accompanied by a blood oath, a solemn vow to serve the gods however they command. Such an oath is very dangerous, for commands from the gods are usually on the scale of nearly-suicidal heroic quests.''
''through books (if they learn the appropriate Academic Abilities), instruction, adventure, or exposure. Vitkir can also study from raw vis, in the same way that magi do, though vitkir may use any type of vis; they do not need vis of a particular Technique or Form. The vitki brews the vis into a potion that includes mead, some of the vitki’s own blood, and other ingredients appropriate to the rune being studied. When this is drunk, the vitki falls into a deep, trancelike state, during which time he is aware of his surroundings but may take no actions. This generally lasts for about ten days while the vitki witnesses visions associated with the rune. The rest of the season is spent contemplating these revelations and learning from the experience.''
''Viktar Magic''
''Dost know how to write, dost know how to read, Dost know how to paint, dost know how to prove, Dost know how to ask, dost know how to offer, Dost know how to send, dost know how to spend?''
''— The Havamal, verse 143''
''The vitkir learned to apply their knowledge of the runes to craft spells and magical effects, by using their Gift to draw upon the inherent power of each rune. These runes are inscribed onto a target using a special rune script that changes the nature of that target to conform to the qualities of the rune, and this effect lasts for as long as the rune lasts. The duration thus depends only upon the material used to make the script; runes written or painted on skin or clothing keep their integrity no longer than a day at most, while runes carved in wood or stone can last for many years. It typically takes only about two minutes to write a rune script, but carving one intended to last takes at least an hour. Unlike the effects of Hermetic magic, the magic of the runes causes a true and natural change to the target — something that for magi would require a Ritual. For example, a healing rune drawn upon a person could naturally heal that person’s wounds, while a rune for harm would cause lasting injury. When the rune is destroyed, the effect ends and nature reasserts itself, but the effects of the rune spell are not undone. That is, the wound does not automatically reopen, and the injury does not go away. This also means that because the runes create a natural effect,''
''the target of the rune spell is not considered a magical thing, and does not trigger Magic Resistance. A target with Magic Resistance can still resist the effects, but once the effect has manifested, it becomes a real thing. This means that a sword marked with runes for causing great damage is not a magical sword for the purposes of penetrating Might, and an animal summoned with the magic of the runes is a real animal that can attack a person who would otherwise be safe because of his Magic Resistance. Rune magic still causes Warping to a target over time, even though its effects seem natural, as a consequence of being exposed to a constant magical effect. The target also experiences Warping from rune spells of Level 30 or greater, unless the vitki casts the effect on himself. These strong magical effects are always continuous, which means the target receives an additional Warping Point every season that the effect endures. The runes also create a connection to the vitki who inscribes them. This is similar to the effect of the Hermetic spell Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ArM5, page 162); it causes the object with the runes inscribed upon it to become an Arcane Connection to the vitki, but in such a way that one can magically target the vitki''
''by targeting the runes — the runes become part of the vitki, and another wizard touching the runes may affect the vitki at Touch Range. Like the Hermetic spell, this connection goes both ways. Also, anything summoned by a rune spell becomes a permanent Arcane Connection to the vitki. Because of these magical vulnerabilities associated with their magic, vitki typically do not let rune effects out of their control, and destroy them as soon as they have served their purpose.''
''Vitkar Rune Scripts''
''To use their runes, vitkir must first invent a rune script. This is a formula that the vitki develops ahead of time and follows to produce a magical effect, very similar to the formulaic spells of Hermetic magi. Vitkir typically know many scripts, since they cannot perform their magic spontaneously. There are three different methods that they can use for each of their rune scripts, each of which includes the vitki’s name, and also a description of the effect, the target of the effect, or both.''

===Method I: “i, [name], [effect].”===

''The vitki describes an effect that either targets himself, or that targets the object onto which he draws the runes. If this object is worn or carried by a target when the spell is cast, it is considered part of that target and thus affects that target, but only for as long as they are touching — if the object with the runes is removed, the spell ends. This formula only requires a single rune, since the target is implied, and the description is written in the first person. For example, a vitki might write on his staff: “I, Eirik, carve upon this staff the runes for my health.”''

===Method Ii: “[name] [effect] [target].”===

''This method is used to affect something other than the vitki or the object onto which the runes are inscribed. The vitki describes an effect and a target: either a target to which he has an Arcane Connection, or a target within about ten paces of the object onto which the runes are inscribed. The formula is written in the third person, and typically uses two runes: one to describe the effect and one to describe the target. For example, a vitki might wrap one of his wife’s hairs around a stick and write: “Eirik carves upon this stick the runes of health for his good wife.” The vitki always uses the lowest of his scores in these runes, though it is not uncommon to have a spell that uses this method and only one rune, when the rune applies to both the effect and the target.''

===Method Iii: “[name], [target].”===

''This rune spell has no effect except to create a substitute Arcane Connection to the target for the vitki (and if the target has Magic Resistance, the level of the spell must exceed it). This connection may then be used later to affect the object upon which the runes are inscribed from a distance, using Method II. For example, “Eirik carves the runes upon this tree.” The target must be within about ten paces of the runes when the spell is finished, or else the caster must have another Arcane Connection to the target while casting.''
''All of these methods use the same total: the character’s lowest score in the associated runes, plus his Intelligence, Rune Magic, and the modifier for the aura. For convenience this is called the vitki’s Lab Total, just like''
''Hermetic magi, though unlike magi vitkir do not need a specialized laboratory to invent a script.''

===Vitkar Lab Total: (lowest) Rune + Intelligence + Rune Magic + Aura Modifier===

''Inventing a new rune script takes the vitki a season of effort. At the end of the season, the vitki gains a number of spell levels equal to his Lab Total, which may be spent on any number of rune scripts that use the associated runes. For example, if a vitki’s Lab Total for a particular set of runes is 20, he can learn a single Level 20 rune script for those runes, or two Level 10 rune scripts. It is not essential that the runes be used the same way in each script, or even that all of the runes are used in each script. If the vitki is interrupted during the season, treat this as if he were distracted from study, i.e. a vitki who devotes only a month to a rune script rather than the whole season receives only one-third of his Lab Total. A vitki can also learn rune scripts from a teacher. The vitki receives a number of spell levels equal to the teacher’s Lab Total for the highest-level rune script being taught. These levels may be spent to learn any rune scripts that the teacher knows, though no rune script learned this way may have a higher level than the student’s Lab Total for those runes.''
''Casting Rune Spells''
''A vitki can cast any rune spell for which he knows a rune script. He must inscribe the text of the rune spell on the target, which usually takes about two minutes to accomplish but can take as long as an hour depending on the material and the durability of the inscription. Note that durability determines how long the effect lasts; hasty inscriptions rarely last longer than a few hours at most. Then, roll the following formula:''

===Casting Total: Stress Die + Stamina + (Lowest) Rune + Aura Modifier===

''If the Casting Total is at least equal to the level of the rune script, the spell is cast and the vitki suffers no Fatigue. If the Casting Total is within 10 of the target level, it is cast but the vitki loses a Fatigue level. Less than that, and the vitki loses a Fatigue level and the spell is not cast. If the target has Magic Resistance, subtract the level of''
''the rune spell from the Casting Total and add the character’s Penetration bonus to determine the Penetration Total (the same formula as used with Hermetic magic). There are several variations on the runes that the vitki may use when inscribing them. Each modifies the vitki’s Casting Total. For example, the vitki can choose not to inscribe his name into the rune script, which gives him a –5 penalty. Or, he can simply carve single runes for the effect and target, rather than describing them fully in the script, for a –10 penalty. These options also speed the casting time, making it possible to cast a rune spell in a single round. The vitki can hide or encrypt the runes in some way, by combining the stems of several runes together in a design that requires knowledge of Craft: Runes and a contested Intelligence + Rune Magic roll to decipher, which gives a –2 penalty to the Casting Total for hiding his name and a –5 penalty for obscuring the description. Alternatively, if the vitki spends twice as long casting the runes and the player makes a Dexterity + Craft: Runes roll of 6 or better on a simple die, he can hide the runes any way he wishes with no penalty. The result of the roll is used for the contested Intelligence + Rune Magic roll if another vitki attempts to decipher the meaning of his runes. If the vitki spends extra effort on the runes — for example by coloring them in, working them into an intricate pattern, or spelling out the entire rune alphabet at the beginning of the script — this gives him a +1 bonus to the casting total. This also increases the casting time, typically taking twice as long. For example, a script that takes an hour to carve into rock would take two hours with extra effort. If the runes that contain the magic of the effect or the target are emphasized, by repeating them three times or by coloring them or drawing them larger than the other runes, the vitki receives another +1 bonus. This can be done without requiring extra time, though it makes it impossible to hide or obscure the purpose of the spell. Vis, what the vitki call makt (MACK-t, “power”), may also be incorporated into a rune spell. Simply using vis while casting the spell increases the Casting Total of the effect by 2 per pawn, in the same way that vis affects Hermetic magic. The technique or form of the vis must be appropriate to the effect or target, and the vitki may only use as many pawns of that type of vis as his score in the rune used in the script. As with Hermetic magic, each pawn of vis adds one botch die should the player get a 0 on the casting roll.''

=a=

''The Runes''
''The Abilities associated with the 24 runes of the vitkir are Accelerated Abilities, but the vitkir always refer to them as “runes.” The effects associated with each of the runes are described below. Most of these effects give the target a bonus or penalty to die rolls associated with particular circumstances; the magnitude of the bonus or penalty is determined by the level of effect, while its applicability is determined by the qualities of the rune. The storyguide determines if a particular rune is appropriate to a particular roll. These bonuses or penalties never affect the casting of other rune spells, and they do not stack — only the largest applicable bonus applies to a given roll. (These effects are the tradition’s version of inherent magical defenses based on their powers, and every vitki can be expected to know at least one rune script with this sort of effect.) Runes can sometimes reproduce other magical effects appropriate to a rune’s description, using the Hermetic spell guidelines as a basis. When calculating the level of the effect, a good rule of thumb is to add four magnitudes to the effect’s base level to represent the extended duration and unusual range and target parameters of rune magic. Thus, a Hermetic effect with a base level of 15 would be level 35 when cast with the runes. However, because rune spells are so different from Hermetic spells, some effects — especially those effects that require a ritual to cast — may need to be designed with even higher levels, and some of them (at the storyguide’s discretion) will not be possible with vitkar magic at all. The runes are often organized into three groups of eight letters, called aetts (“EIGHTS”), and are usually written in three lines, one aett per row (see the sidebar). The entire rune alphabet is often called the Futhark (“FOO-thark”), after the first six letters: F, U, TH, A, R, and K. For greater ease of use of this chapter, however, the runes are presented below in alphabetical order, A (Ansuz) to Z (Algiz), and it is probably easiest to note them this way on the character sheet as well.''
''A, Ansuz, “Mouth”''
''(Pronounced “AN-sooz”) This rune has many meanings, including “mouth” as in the source of speech and also the beginning of a river. It originated''
''as “god,” as it is associated with the Norse gods who are called the Aesir (“AYS-eyr”), and particularly symbolizes Odin, the father of the gods, who first discovered the power of the runes. When used to describe a target, Ansuz most commonly refers to images, specifically sounds. For the purposes of Penetration, this application is an Imaginem effect. Ansuz can also affect the mind through speech, an aspect of Mentem, and in rare circumstances it can target the human mouth directly as a Corpus effect. It is also occasionally associated with Vim, to target intelligent supernatural beings that have the power of speech.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Rune Casting Variations''
''Variation Modifier  Hidden name –2  No name –5  Hidden description –5  No description –10  Extra effort +1  Emphasis +1  Vis (Makt) +2/pawn*''
''*  as appropriate to the effect''

|}
''The Elder Futhark''
''The three aetts of the Elder Futhark are named after three gods, each one associated with the first letter in that aett. Freya was a Norse goddess of love and marriage, Heimdall was the god charged with guarding the rainbow bridge that leads from earth to Asgard, and Tyr was the god of justice and battle.''

===Freya’s Aett===

''Letter Rune Name Meaning Effects  F f Fehu “Wealth” wealth, domesticated animals U u Uruz “Auroch” endurance, the wild Th x Thurisaz “Ogre” malice, shapeshifting A a Ansuz “Mouth” communication, teaching R r Raido “Riding” travel, knowledge K k Kauno “Pain” fire, sores G g Gebo “Gift” debt, sacrifice W w Wunjo “Joy” emotion, intoxication''

===Heimdall’s Aett===

''Letter Rune Name Meaning Effects H h Hagalaz “Hail” weather, illness N n Naudiz “Need” trouble, hardship  I i Isa “Ice” cold, stasis  J j Jera “Year” harvest, bounty Y y Ihwaz “Yew” patience, the dead  P p Perth “Cup” chance, secrets Z z Algiz “Elk” protection, the hunt  S s Sowilo “Sun” triumph, virtue''

===Tyr’s Aett===

''Letter Rune Name Meaning Effects T t Tiwaz “Tyr” justice, battle  B b Berkanan “Birch” health, youth  E e Ehwaz “Horse” speed, relationships M m Mannaz “Man” cooperation, duty  L l Laguz “Water” ocean, ships Ng q Ingwaz “Lord” family, security D d Dagaz “Day” time, growth O o Othila “Inheritance” lands, possessions''

=b=


===Sample Ansuz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''speak with Odin’s voice. Ansuz General, Method I The vitki receives a bonus to all Ability rolls associated with good speech and communication equal to the magnitude of this effect. For example, a Level 20 effect would''
''give him a +4 bonus. This lasts for as long as the rune remains intact, though it is not cumulative with other blessings; if two such bonuses apply to a given action, the vitki only receives the bonus with the highest value.''

===I, (The Runemaster), Give===

''understanding of the hollow voices. Ansuz General, Method I''
''For as long as the runes last, the target may hear the words spoken by spirits and incorporeal beings and can tell the difference between illusory noises and real noises as if he had a score of this effect’s magnitude in Second Sight. The runes are usually drawn upon an amulet made of wood or stone and worn against the person’s skin, and thus typically last only a short while.''
''B, Berkanan, “Birch”''
''(Pronounced “BAIR-kan-AHN,” with a soft “w” after the “B”) The birch is a tree of fertility; its branches are bare and do not produce flowers or seeds, but it sprouts many shoots and leaves. In Norse legend, Odin marked the runes on nine birch twigs and then struck an adder with them, so that it was killed and divided into nine parts. The Berkanan rune is associated with healing, and also with youth. When used as a target it is usually Herbam, though it can also affect children (Corpus), and young animals (Animal).''

===Sample Berkanan Rune Spells===


===(the Runemaster) Curses the===

''wound with blood he spilled. Berkanan (Mannaz) General, Method II The spell is cast upon a spear that has struck and wounded another, carving the runes to seal in the blood as an Arcane Connection. The target of the spell — the person whose blood is on the spear — receives three times the magnitude of the spell as a penalty to all of his recovery rolls, for as long as the rune lasts.''

===I, (The Runemaster), Carve===

''runes to close the flesh. Berkanan 20, Method I This spell is usually carved onto an amulet and placed inside a piece of the target’s clothing. The target heals a Light Wound, and as long as the runes last for at least a week (the recovery period for a Light Wound) the effect is permanent. If the amulet is removed or damaged during this time, before the wound would have healed naturally, the character must make an immediate recovery roll for that injury (ArM5, page 179). If this equals or exceeds the Improvement Ease Factor, then the wound remains''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Ansuz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect to all Ability rolls associated with Communication. General:	 The target gains the power to recognize audible illusions of less than or equal to the level of this effect, recognizing them by ear much in the same way those with Second Sight perceive them visually. Level 10:	Give a target the ability to speak. If the target is not intelligent, it can only repeat what is specified in the effect. Level 20:	The target gains the power to recognize the Form associated with the''
''Might of any creature within about ten paces. This tells the vitki which runes can be used to target it. Level 25:	The target gains the ability to intuitively understand the surface thoughts of others within a ten-pace area, making it possible to make sense of foreign languages. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Communication by one point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score.''

|}

=e=


=d=

''healed. If the roll equals or exceeds the Stable Ease Factor, then the Light Wound reopens. If this roll is less than the Stable Ease Factor then the wound worsens, becoming a Medium Wound.''
''D, Dagaz, “Day”''
''(Pronounced “DHAH-ghahz,” with the “D” followed by a soft, voiced “th” as in “the,” and the “gh” voiced at the back of the throat) Dagaz means “day,” as in the length of time it takes the sun to travel from horizon to horizon. Thus, the rune is associated with the concept of time. It also represents the sun, light, and life during long, cold winters. Things grow over time, and so Dagaz is also associated with the growth of animals, plants, and people. As a target, Dagaz would be considered part of either Imaginem or Ignem, specifically affecting the light of day and moving images associated with time passing, but it is rarely used in this way.''

===Sample Dagaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''carve the runes of giants. Dagaz 20, Method I The vitki causes himself to grow with the sun, so that in the morning and afternoon he is +1 Size (essentially gaining the Large Virtue), and at noon he is Size +2. However, for the duration he will always return to his normal size by sunset, and remain that way until the sun rises again. During some months of the year in the extreme north, the sun never sets, and in that case the vitki may remain a giant for as long as an entire season.''

===(the Runemaster) Curses With===

''years the defilers of the grave. Dagaz (Mannaz) 30, Method II These runes ensure that any person who disturbs the ground or sealing stone of a grave or tomb immediately ages five years and must make an Aging roll. It is usually written on a tablet that is buried with the corpse, so that it cannot be seen by would-be defilers. A grave-robber can only be affected by this curse once per casting, though it might be cast multiple times on the same stone.''
''E, Ehwaz, “Horse”''
''(Pronounced “AY-vahz,” with the first syllable spoken to rhyme with “hay”) This rune stands for the horse — a beast noted for its stamina, speed, and strength. It represents superior mobility in combat, as well as the close relationship between horse and rider. When used as a target, it is associated with Animal, specifically when targeting horses or other animals used in battle.''

===Sample Ehwaz Rune Spells===


===(the Runemaster) Speaks===

''of friendship among men. Ehwaz (Ansuz) General, Method II All those who hear the target’s words feel trust and goodwill toward him, for as long as the runes endure. Note that if''
''anyone in this audience has Magic Resistance, the spell must still Penetrate and it is treated as either an Imaginem or Mentem effect, whichever is higher. In ancient times, vitkir would inscribe these runes on a baton carried by one of their followers before sending them to negotiate with rival tribes, to ensure that they would receive him as a friend. The effects of this spell are largely swamped by the effects of The Gift, although some vitkir believe it does make things a little bit better.''

===(the Runemaster) Tames===

''the wild stallion. Ehwaz 20, Method II The vitki takes three hairs from the horse’s tail and carves them into the runes. For as long as the runes last, the horse will be well-disposed toward the vitki and respond to him as if they had been rider and mount for years.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Berkanan Guidelines''
''General: 	The target receives a bonus or penalty to recovery rolls equal to (the magnitude of the effect x 3). This includes physical injuries, but not sickness from diseases or poisons. General: 	The target receives a bonus or penalty to all Ability rolls performed while injured. Level 15:	The target will not impregnate or become pregnant for the duration.  Ensure that the target is potent or fertile for the duration. Level 20:	Heal one of the target’s Light Wounds or the equivalent, or reduce one of a target’s wounds by one level of severity (changing a Heavy Wound to a Medium Wound, for example). Level 20:	Prevent all of a target’s Light Wounds from healing naturally for the''
''duration. Level 25:	Heal your target’s Medium Wound, or reduce a wound by two levels of severity. Level 25:	Prevent all of a target’s Light or Medium Wounds from healing naturally for the duration. Level 30:	Heal a target’s Heavy Wound, or reduce one of a target’s wounds by three levels of severity. Level 30:	Prevent all of a target’s Light, Medium or Heavy Wounds from healing naturally for the duration. Level 35:	Heal a target’s Incapacitating Wound. Level 35:	Prevent any of a target’s wounds from healing naturally for the duration of the spell. Level 40:	Heal all of the target’s wounds.''
''Dagaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls that involve a regular, day-long activity. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty to Aging rolls equal to the magnitude of the effect, so long as the rune lasts for the entire year.''
''Level 20:	Cause a target to grow twice its normal size with the passing of the sun. Level 20:	Shrink a target to half its normal size with the passing of the sun. Level 30:	Cause a target to grow to full maturity in a single day. Level 30:	Age target five years, as long as the target has already reached maturity.''

|}

=g=


=f=

''F, Fehu, “Wealth”''
''(Pronounced “FAY-hoo”) Fehu is the rune of wealth, represented by good fortune and prosperity. In contrast to Othila, which is associated with things such as land and heirlooms, Fehu is typically thought of as common wealth — things like cattle and other animals, silver pennies or surplus grain — but not tools, clothing, or weapons. In the Norwegian and Icelandic rune poems, wealth is more cynically viewed as a “source of discord among kinsmen” perhaps in reference to the brutal nature of Viking raids. When used as a target, Fehu is usually associated with either Animal or Terram, depending upon the type of wealth affected by the rune. It can be used to affect animals in general, but only those that are domesticated and thus considered property.''

===Sample Fehu Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''ask for Freya’s blessing. Fehu General, Method I''
''For as long as the rune endures, you receive a bonus equal to the effect’s magnitude on all rolls that directly involve the vitki’s pursuit of wealth. This might include rolls associated with business, such as Bargain or Folk Ken, or Awareness rolls when searching for treasure. Freya also has associations with fertility, and children might be considered a form of wealth. Thus, this bonus might also boost Stamina rolls associated with a mother giving birth.''
''(The runemaster) summons a hearty ox. Fehu 35, Method II These runes summon a full-grown ox to the vitki, though the vitki must have a horn, hair, bone, or something else belonging to an ox, which is integrated into the runes and becomes an Arcane Connection to the ox that is summoned. The spell causes the ox to appear nearby, transported from wherever it was before. If the ox is dead, the spell also restores it to life, though it has no memory of any of its previous incarnations (and this does not work on any ox that had an Intelligence score or Might). The ox is strangely biddable, as if it had been raised by the vitki himself, though it loses this quality if the runes are destroyed.''
''Note that the ox does not disappear or die when the spell ends, and that the spell will always summon the same ox if the same Arcane Connection is used.''
''G, Gebo, “Gift”''
''(Pronounced “GHAY-boh,” the GH is sounded like the “ch” in “loch,” but softer) Accepting a gift places the recipient under certain obligations in Norse society, which usually involves the need to return the favor with another gift of similar value, so that neither party is in the other’s debt. Thus, while this rune does represent openhanded charity and generosity, it also represents an arrangement or promise that binds the recipient. Gebo is not associated with any particular Form, but with any physical object given as a gift. It can also be used to target someone in the vitkir’s debt, through that sense of obligation created by the vitkir’s generosity. In this case, it might be considered a Mentem effect.''

===Sample Gebo Rune Spells===

''I, (the runemaster), am thrice blessed. Gebo 15, Method I The vitki receives a +3 bonus to his rolls when meeting and influencing others. This is the most common level for this effect, as it offsets some of the negative social effects of The Gift. A vitki always faces initial dislike and hostility from strangers, but with this magical boost he is at least not further hindered in his attempts to convince others that he means well. It is often cast without description, simply inscribing the Gebo rune three times for luck. This confers a –14 penalty to the vitki’s Casting Total, but is very subtle and easy for a vitkir with good knowledge of Gebo to do on a stone or stick before an important event takes place.''

===(the Runemaster) Gives===

''the gift of obligation. Gebo 30, Method II The vitki inscribes the runes on a piece of jewelry that is given to another as a gift. While wearing it, the target is compelled to do as the vitki says, generally deferring to his judgment in all things that are not obviously dangerous or against its own interests.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Ehwaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect on all rolls performed while mounted, including Initiative, Attack, and Defense rolls. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect on Ability rolls involving Quickness (not including Initiative or Defense). General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect to all rolls that involve trust and loyalty between two individuals, creating a bond similar to that of horse and''
''rider. This is similar to the effects of the True Friend Virtue. Level 20:	Tame the target, making it more loyal and sensitive to the vitki’s needs. Level 30:	Summon a mount, which obeys the vitki’s instructions and accepts him as a rider. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Quickness by one point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score.''
''Fehu Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls that support the target gaining wealth: working, gambling, investing, or treasure-hunting. Level 20:	The target gains the ability to detect precious metal he is within about''
''ten paces. Level 25:	The target gains the ability to detect domesticated animals within about ten paces. Level 35:	Summon wealth, usually in the form of precious metal or a domesticated animal.''

|}

=j i=


=h=

''H, Hagalaz, “Hail”''
''(Pronounced “HAH-ghah-lahz”) Hagalaz represents the cruelest side of nature, from sudden storms to debilitating illness. It means hail, both in terms of weather and a hail of missiles. It is associated with great destruction and harm, and always brings pain and suffering to its target. In the rune poems it is called “the whitest of grain, whirled from the vault of the heavens and tossed about by wind before finally turning to water.” It is a powerful force that is difficult to control. When used as a target, Hagalaz is almost always part of Auram or specific aspects of Aquam (cold, rain, and hail). It can also affect other sorts of missile weapons, including Terram (stones) and Herbam (arrows).''

===Sample Hagalaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), Dedicate===

''helmet-destroying hail. Hagalaz General, Method I This rune gives the weapon on which it is inscribed a bonus to its Damage equal to the magnitude of the effect. Thor’s great hammer, Mjollnir, which he would throw at his enemies with one hand, is said to bear this rune prominently on the crosspiece.''
''(The runemaster) summons Thor’s lightning and thunder. Hagalaz 15, Method II After inscribing this script, a terrible thunderstorm gathers in the area surrounding the runes, reaching its peak in anywhere from an hour to a day depending on the time of year and the number of clouds in the sky. The storm then rages until it has rained itself out, and after this the vitki has no further control over it.''
''I, Isa, “Ice”''
''(Pronounced “EE-sah”) Isa means ice, and it symbolizes the hidden dangers ice represents, such as slipping or breaking. It embodies coldness, and also cold emotions. As a target, Isa is associated with literal ice (Aquam), or Ignem when affecting temperature, or Mentem when affecting a person’s cold and implacable feelings.''

===Sample Isa Rune Spells===


===(the Runemaster) Binds===

''the beasts in place. Isa (Fehu) 20, Method II This spell holds a herd of domesticated animals completely motionless as long as they are within ten paces of the runes, and preventing them from moving away again.''

===(the Runemaster) Carves===

''the ice of the north. Isa 25, Method II This spell creates a slippery sheet of ice located on the ground surrounding the runes, which is approximately ten paces across, and and which covers all things within that area with a thin layer of frost. This ice is natural, and will naturally thaw and melt over time, or very quickly in warmer temperatures.''
''J, Jera, “Year”''
''(Pronounced “YEH-rah”) Jera signifies the harvest, and while this implies autumn it can also mean the bounty of nature all year round. The harvest is also the end result of hard work for an entire year, and so the rune also has connotations of prosperity and plenty. As a target, Jera is almost always associated with the form of Herbam, though it can also influence an Animal harvest, and can target people’s health and general well being through Corpus.''

===Sample Jera Rune Spells===

''I, (the runemaster) bless the work. Jera General, Method I The vitki typically carves this rune into the floor of his home. After a year has passed,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Gebo Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect on all Ability rolls to influence others, including forming new relationships, courtship, charming others, and negotiation. Level 30:	Give the target a feeling of def''
''erence and obligation to the vitki. Level 35:	Force the target to obey a simple command. Level 40:	Force the target to obey a complex command. Level 50:	Completely dominate the target’s mind and emotions.''
''Hagalaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Damage. General:	 Cause hail or other dangerous phenomena to pummel a target, inflicting damage equal to a stress die + (the Level of the effect – 15).''
''Level 15:	Summon severe weather phenomena, like thunderstorms or hailstorms. Level 20:	Cause weather phenomena to become more or less severe. Level 25:	Summon a very severe weather phenomenon; for example, a tornado or a blizzard.''
''Isa Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty that’s equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls that involve ice or the cold: exposure, winter travel, or slipping. General:	 Chill a target, doing Damage equal to (the level of the effect – 20) and potentially freezing it solid. Level 10:	Cause water to freeze. If cast on''
''a target, this makes it cold to the touch; living beings lose a Fatigue level.  Cause ice to melt. Level 15:	Cause a target to feel depressed and apathetic for the duration, canceling out other strong emotions. Level 20:	Hold a target totally motionless. Level 25:	Cause the surface of a target to become completely covered in ice.''

|}

=l=


=k=

''this gives him a bonus equal to the magnitude of the effect on all year-long activities he has undertaken there. For example, if he spends the next year studying, devoting himself to the same subject for all four seasons, at the end of it he will receive additional experience points equal to this effect’s magnitude. Likewise, if he spends the time working diligently in the field, he will receive a bonus to the roll''
''that determines the quality of his harvest. As this is a continuous effect, he will also receive a Warping Point, and an additional one for each season if the effect is powerful.''
''I, (the runemaster) bless the fields. Jera 5, Method I These runes are carved onto a stone that is buried in a field where grain or other''
''growing seeds have been sown. As long as the runes are undisturbed, the land will yield a healthy and robust harvest that is unusually resistant to disease, drought, and insects.''
''K, Kauno, “Pain”''
''(Pronounced “COW-noh”) In the Anglo-Saxon Rune Poem, Kauno is described as a torch visible from afar, while other rune poems refer to it as an abscess or boil. As a pale, bright flame it could also refer to a fever, which “burns where princes sit within.” Thus, the rune symbolizes heat, the color and light of flames, and burning pain. As a target, Kauno affects any kind of fire, as well as heat and temperature. It is almost always associated with Ignem when evaluating Penetration, though effects that cause sores and pain are usually Corpus or Animal.''

===Sample Kauno Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), See===

''through the darkness. Kauno General, Method I This rune gives the vitki a bonus to rolls that involve eyesight, for as long as the rune is intact. It is typically inscribed on a wooden wand or staff after dark to improve night vision, and is traditionally burned on a fire the next morning.''

===(the Runemaster) Causes===

''fiery fever to burn bright. Kauno (Mannaz) 30, Method II The target person is afflicted with a serious illness, the equivalent of a Medium Wound. While this spell endures, however, the target cannot recover naturally; his condition can only remain the same or worsen, since the disease is constantly maintained by the runes.''
''L, Laguz, “Water”''
''(Pronounced “LAH-ghooz”) This rune represents water, especially of the ocean. There is great wealth and power in the ocean, and many hidden dangers that cannot be seen from the surface. As a target it is almost always associated with Aquam, though it can also affect things that are only found underwater, such as water-breathing animals and sea plants.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Jera Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to year-long activities, so long as the rune lasts for the entire year, with the bonus gained at the end of the year. For example: harvest, study, teaching, craft work (but not aging, which is cov''
''ered by Dagaz). General:	 Target is immune to supernatural diseases of up to this effect’s Level. Level 5:	 Ensure that the target remains healthy and strong, immune to natural blight and illness for the duration. Level 15:	Summon food and drink.''

|}
''Kauno Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to this effect’s magnitude to all Ability rolls associated with disease and sickness, such as diagnosing or curing others. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty to all Ability rolls performed while sick. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty to recovery rolls due to sickness and disease equal to (this effect’s magnitude x 3). This does not include recovery rolls for physical injuries. Level 10:	Ignite an extremely flammable target, or cause it to become warm to the touch. This does +5 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round, with the Damage total divided by 5 after rolling. Level 15:	Ignite a very flammable target, or cause it to become hot to the touch. This does +5 Damage to the target or anything that’s touching it each round, with the Damage total divided by 2 after rolling. Level 20:	Ignite a flammable target, or cause it to become hot enough to boil water. This does +5 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 20:	Cause the target to suffer from painful sores that last for the duration. These are distracting and unpleasant for the target, but have no other effect. Level 25:	Ignite a slightly flammable tar''
''get, or cause it to become hot enough to glow. This does +10 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 25:	The target is infected with a minor illness, which will not heal naturally for the duration. Level 30:	Ignite a barely flammable target, or cause it to become hot enough to melt lead. It does +15 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 30:	The target is infected with a serious illness, which will not heal naturally for the duration. Level 35:	Ignite a target, or cause it to become unnaturally hot. This does +20 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 35:	The target is infected with a major illness, which will not heal naturally for the duration. Level 40:	Ignite a target, or cause it to become unnaturally hot. This does +25 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 40:	The target is infected with a critical illness, which will not heal naturally for the duration. Level 45:	Ignite a target, or cause it to become unnaturally hot. This does +30 Damage to the target or anything touching it each round. Level 45:	The target is infected with a terminal illness, which will not heal naturally for the duration.''

=n=


=m=


===Sample Laguz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster) Kiss===

''the treacherous deep. Laguz 20, Method I For the duration of the effect, the vitki can breathe comfortably both in water and on land.''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''tame the wild waves. Laguz 25, Method I The runes are carved into a piece of wood mounted on the prow of a ship, which ensures that the craft travels at incredible speeds through the water, doubling its natural movement rate.''
''M, Mannaz, “Man”''
''(Pronounced “MAH-nahz”) Mannaz means mankind, and suggests unity and cooperation among all people. When used as a target it affects either the mind or the body, but most often the body, and thus is usually linked to Corpus rather than Mentem. It is used most frequently to affect a person as the target of another rune.''

===Sample Mannaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''make men sure and steady. Mannaz 30, Method I For the duration of this effect, the target’s Dexterity Characteristic is increased by 1, but no higher than 0.''

===(the Runemaster) Leads===

''men to greatness. Mannaz 20, Method II All the people fighting within ten paces of the runes function as a trained group, even if their leader does not have a sufficient Leadership score. The runes are typically woven into a flag or painted on the shield carried by the leader.''
''N, Naudiz, “Need”''
''(Pronounced “NOW-thiz,” with the “th” voiced as in “this”) Naudiz is a very negative rune, meaning hardship, trouble, and adversity, often scratched onto a fingernail to indicate great''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Laguz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls performed while submerged in or floating upon water. Level 5:	 The target gains the ability to see clearly through water. Level 10:	Summon water, enough to fill an area about ten paces across and ten paces deep. Level 20:	The target gains the ability to sense the direction of the nearest large''
''body of water, or if any water is within about ten paces. Level 20:	The target gains the ability to breathe water. Level 25:	Speed a sea journey, causing the target ship or the target swimmer to travel through the water at twice the normal speed. Level 30:	Cause waves to knock over a large target or to pull a small target under water.''
''Mannaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls that involve Dexterity (but not Attack rolls). General:	 Target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls involving working with others, such as fighting in a group or collaborating on a project in a workshop. Level 20:	Inspire feelings of cooperation''
''and unity within a group of targets.  Cause a group of fighters to function as a trained group. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Dexterity by one point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score.''

|}

=o=


=q=

''need. It may be used to target things that are desperate, dying, or despairing, and so is usually associated with Mentem or Corpus.''

===Sample Naudiz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), Store===

''power for my time of need. Naudiz General, Method I This effect binds another rune spell to the target, delaying its resolution until''
''it is triggered. The caster describes what sort of conditions cause the effect to activate — usually this is when he is Incapacitated or killed — and then he inscribes the rune spell for the bound effect next to the Naudiz runes.''

===(the Runemaster) Brings Hardship===

''to the enemy and his family. Naudiz (Ingwaz) 20, Method II All those who live in the target structure begin to feel deep despair and self-loathing,''
''beset by strife. For as long as the runes last, their Confidence Scores are reduced by 1. For most characters, this means that they cannot spend Confidence Points to increase their totals.''
''Ng, Ingwaz, “Lord”''
''(Pronounced “ING-vahz”) Ingwaz is associated with peace, family, and a safe, secure home. As a target, it may affect a building, dwelling, or structure, and so is often tied to Herbam and Terram. It can also affect all those who live in a particular house, making it possible to target them by carving runes on the outside, or to target members of the caster’s family or household. This is usually a Corpus effect.''

===Sample Ingwaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''feel my hearth and home. Ingwaz 20, Method I After carving these runes, the vitki can sense the approximate direction and distance of his family members, and their general emotional state (i.e. excited or calm).''

===(the Runemaster) Calls===

''his children to his side. Ingwaz 35, Method II By incorporating an Arcane Connection into the rune spell, the vitki transports a member of his family to the runes, intangibly speeding him or her across the land. Family can include members of the vitki’s household, or blood relatives. This journey typically takes about an hour from anywhere within Scandinavia, though greater distances might increase the time it takes for the person to arrive.''
''O, Othila, “Inheritance”''
''(Pronounced “OH-thih-LAH,” the “th” unvoiced as in “thin”) The Othila rune means property, but specific material goods as opposed to Fehu, which represents general wealth. These are things that can be passed on from generation to generation, such as lands or possessions, and thus the rune is most often used as a target tied to Terram.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Naudiz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect when in great need, such as when dreadfully wounded or in a desperate state of emotion. General:	 The target suffers a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect on all Ability rolls that he has tried once and failed. General:	 Delay the resolution of another supernatural effect no greater than the level of this effect, putting it off for as long as this rune lasts, and casting it when this spell is broken. This spell must include the runes for the held effect as well as Naudiz. For example, to''
''delay an Ansuz effect of Level 20, the rune spell must be Naudiz (Ansuz) 20 or less. General:	 Bind an active rune spell of Level less than or equal to this one, so that the duration lasts as long as the runes used in this spell. The spell must include the runes for the bound effect as well as Naudiz. For example, to bind a Fehu (Ansuz) effect of Level 15, the rune spell must be Naudiz (Fehu, Ansuz) 15 or greater. Level 20:	Cause a target to feel a deep despair, which makes him unable to use Confidence Points for the duration of the spell.''
''Ingwaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Ability rolls that affect his family, household, or home. Level 20:	The target gains an instinctive sense of where his family is, including distance and direction and their current''
''emotional state. Level 20:	The target gives birth easily and the baby is healthy, so long as the rune is worn by her for the whole of the pregnancy. Level 35:	Summon a target person, transporting him or her to the caster.''
''Othila Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to all rolls that involve a specific tool or family heirloom, such as wielding his father’s sword or defending his lands. This includes Initiative, Attack, and Defense rolls. Level 15:	Make an object more effective at what it is designed to do. For example,''
''make a sword light and sharp, or a plow till the earth more quickly. The object functions as if it were exceptional quality, and reduces the number of potential botch dice by two when used. Level 20:	Summon a target to the caster; this must be a nonliving thing that is smaller than a person, such as a sword or chest.''

|}

=r=


=p=


===Sample Othila Rune Spells===

''I, (the runemaster), sharpen my axe. Othila General, Method I The vitki receives a bonus equal to the magnitude of the effect to his Initiative, Attack, and Damage scores as long as he wields a particular weapon.''

===(the Runemaster) Has===

''need of an arrow. Othila (Hagalaz) 20, Method II This spell summons an arrow to which the vitki has an Arcane Connection, causing it to appear somewhere nearby — inside his quiver, for example, or perhaps in the ground just outside his tent. A vitki might carve a rune on each of his arrows to create an Arcane Connection to them, so that he can then call them all back to himself with this rune spell.''
''P, Perth, “Cup”''
''(Pronounced “PAIR-th,” with the final syllable short and unvoiced) Perth is a mysterious and strange rune, with many different interpretations. Perhaps the strongest association is with fate and chance, though it is also tied to pleasure and relaxation, such as found at a gaming table or dining hall. Thus, it typically represents a container that holds secrets, such as a dice cup or drinking horn. In the Anglo-Saxon Rune Poem it represents a piece on a gaming board, a pawn. Often Perth is used to affect the supernatural realms, particularly Magic. It is thus tied most strongly to Vim. It can target vis, and it can also target other spells and supernatural effects. It does not affect supernatural beings and creatures with Might (these are Ansuz if they are intelligent, or Uruz if they are not), though it can affect their powers.''

===Sample Perth Rune Spells===


===(the Runemaster) Defies His Rival===

''and laughs at his misfortune. Perth (Mannaz) General, Method II The vitki integrates an Arcane Connection to another rune wizard into his rune script, and for as long as it lasts, whenever his rival must roll for a magical botch he adds a number of additional dice to his pool equal to the magnitude of this effect.''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''sense the sleeping alfar. Perth 20, Method I For as long as the rune endures, the vitki can sense vis when he is within about ten paces of it. He may identify it based on its associations with a single rune, and he may also tell approximately how many pawns there are.''
''R, Raido, “Riding”''
''(Pronounced “RYE-doh”) This rune is generally held to mean “riding,” as in the activity of going forth on horseback or on a cart. The word raido may be related to the Old Norse word reid, which means either chariot or thunder, and thus it may invoke Thor, the Norse god of thunder,''
''who rode in a great chariot. It symbolizes a journey, and all forms of travel. It also conveys the idea of preparation for war or severe weather, and is thus associated with principles of planning, thought, and strategy. As a target, Raido targets a cart, ship, or wheel, as well as the tack and harnesses of animals that pull a cart or chariot. The animals themselves are usually associated with either Ehwaz if they are horses, or Fehu for other domesticated animals.''

===Sample Raido Rune Spells===


===I, the Runemaster, Hear===

''the thunder of the north. Raido 20, Method I The vitki can sense which way is north for as long as the rune remains undamaged.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Perth Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to rolls that involve pure chance, such as when playing at dice. This also influences events governed by some element of chance, such as shooting an arrow into the dark or determining whether or not a woman becomes pregnant. General:	 Whenever the target rolls for a potential botch, the number of potential botch dice is reduced or increased by the magnitude of this effect. General:	 All supernatural effects cast on''
''the target that are less than or equal to half this effect’s level are dispelled. Level 10:	The target can sense Magic or Faerie auras within about ten paces, and identify their strength. Level 20:	The target gains the ability to sense and identify vis that is within about ten paces. Level 25:	The target can recognize the caster of any active magic in the vicinity, or can get a general sense of the effects, much like reading the inscribed description of a rune spell.''
''Raido Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect on all Ability rolls made while traveling, such as Area Lore, Folk Ken, Ride, or Charm. This does not include mounted combat. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect on all natural Ability rolls associated with Stamina (but not Soak or casting rune magic). General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to his Initiative. Level 15:	Repair a harness or wheel. Level 20:	Restore a lame animal, healing a''
''Light Wound for the duration.  The target gains the power to sense which direction it is traveling. Level 30:	Speed a journey, allowing the target to run and walk at twice the normal speed. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Stamina by 1 point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score. Level 35:	Summon a target to the caster; it must be a nonliving thing that is larger than the caster, such as a boat or cart.''

|}

=t s=


===I, the Runemaster, Give===

''eight legs to my horse. Raido 30, Method I With this rune spell, which is usually inscribed directly onto the horse’s saddle or blanket, the vitki causes his horse to travel extremely quickly, covering ten paces with each step.''
''S, Sowilo, “Sun”''
''(Pronounced “SOH-veel-oh”) Sowilo is associated with light and the sun, and is described as a boon to sailors and a blessing for travelers. It also has overtones of good succeeding against evil, much as light triumphs over dark. As a target Sowilo affects''
''light, and is thus a part of the Form of Ignem. It can also target the Divine and beings that have Divine Might as a subset of Vim.''

===Sample Sowilo Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), Step===

''most surely in sunlight. Sowilo General, Method I The vitki receives the magnitude of this effect as a bonus to all Perception-based Ability rolls.''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''summon summer’s brightness. Sowilo 25, Method I For as long as the rune endures, bright sunlight shines out from the target. Those who look directly at the light may be blinded by it, and it is said that creatures of the night and wickedness cannot bear its touch and so must flee its presence.''
''T, Tiwaz, “Tyr”''
''(Pronounced “TEE-vahz”) Tyr is the Norse god of truth and battle, giver of victory and protector of the other gods. He is loyal to his fellows and known for sacrificing his hand to the Fenris wolf so that it could be bound. His rune is associated with men who fight for the good of their companions, and who seek truth. As a target, it is primarily associated with Mentem and justice, in that it affects a person’s thoughts and deeper motivations.''

===Sample Tiwaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster),===

''fight for my companions. Tiwaz General, Method I The vitki typically casts this spell in battle, scratching the runes into his shield or armor. He receives a bonus equal to the magnitude to all of his Attack rolls for as long as the runes last. (In a pitched melee, this is unlikely to be more than a few rounds.)''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''can sense the liar’s craft. Tiwaz 30, Method I For the duration, the vitki can sense if people believe they are telling the truth so long as he is within about ten paces of them. (Note that demons can easily foil this effect.)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Sowilo Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to natural Ability rolls associated with Perception. General:	 The target can see through illusions of this effect’s level or less as if he had Second Sight, including seeing through regiones. Level 10:	The target gains the ability to see in the dark as if it were daylight.  The target can sense Divine or Infernal auras within about ten paces, and identify their strength. Level 20:	Extinguish all light within about''
''ten paces of the target.  Make a target invisible. Level 25:	The target becomes more resistant to cold, and is immune to the ill effects of exposure. Level 25:	Cause blindingly bright sunlight to shine on or from the target. Level 30: Increase or decrease a target’s Perception by 1 point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score.''

|}

=u=


=x=

''Th, Thurisaz, “Ogre”''
''(Pronounced “THUR-ee-sahs,” with the “th” unvoiced as in “thorn”) Thurisaz is interpreted many different ways, usually with a negative connotation. The Norse and Icelandic rune poems describe it as meaning “giant” or “ogre,” noting that such creatures especially like to harm women, while the Anglo-Saxon poem calls it “thorn,” being sharp and severe. The rune is also said to be used to evoke demons from the underworld. Its symbolism is generally evil and dangerous, and because of its association with trolls and ogres it is often used to cast spells that change the caster’s shape. When used as a target, Thurisaz can affect supernatural creatures as a kind of Vim magic, these most commonly being infernal beings. It can also target thorny bushes and brambles as part of Herbam, or anything wooden that pierces or cuts.''

===Sample Thurisaz Rune Spells===


===(the Runemaster) Prepares===

''the ogre-slaying spear. Thurisaz General, Method II The vitki prepares the runes on the shaft of a spear, and throws it into a battlefield. If the effect penetrates their Magic Resistance, all supernatural creatures within ten paces of its path have their Might Scores reduced by (the level of this effect – 10). For example, at Level 15 their Might Scores are reduced by 5.''

===I, (The Runemaster), Call===

''the serpent from the brambles. Thurisaz 30, Method I The runes are typically carved onto a twisted branch, with Thurisaz written three times for emphasis. When the inscription is complete, the branch changes into a venomous snake. If it suffers a Heavy Wound, the runes are broken and it becomes a simple branch again.''
''U, Uruz, “Auroch”''
''(Pronounced “oo-ROOZ”) This rune represents the aurochs, a large and powerful breed of cattle that roams the wilderness of Scandinavia. Julius Caesar described them as slightly smaller than the elephant and the same color and shape as a''
''bull. They are extraordinarily strong, fast, and ferocious. Successfully hunting an aurochs makes a boy into a man, and the best way to do this is with a pit trap. Proof of the adventure is the display of the massive beast’s horns, which are often bound at the tips with''
''silver for use as drinking cups. Uruz is thus a symbol of strength and stamina, as well as manhood and masculinity. There is also a parallel implied in its defense against the hunter and a man defending his home, and in the great achieve''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Tiwaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to Personality rolls that involve positive emotions like loyalty or bravery. General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to his Attack or Defense scores. General:	 The target may boost his Confidence Score by 1, as long as his Confidence Score is no greater than (the magnitude of this effect – 3). Level 15:	The target gains the ability to sense the direction in which the nearest person is located''
''Level 20:	The target gains an intuitive understanding of those people’s thoughts and motivations within about ten paces, allowing him to more easily make friends or figure out the social structure of a community. Level 30:	The target gains the ability to tell if people within ten paces believe that they are telling the truth or lying. Level 45:	The target can completely understand the minds and emotions of those people within about ten paces, and can accurately predict their actions and reactions.''
''Thurisaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect on Personality rolls tied to negative passions like lust or wrath. General:	 The target’s Might Score is reduced by (the level of this effect – 10). Level 15:	Cause thorny brambles to grow in an area about ten paces across. Level 15:	Destroy plants in an area ten paces across. Level 20:	Transform a living target into''
''another living thing of approximately the same size. Level 20:	Transform a nonliving target into another nonliving thing of approximately the same size. Level 30:	Transform a living target into a nonliving thing of approximately the same size. Level 30:	Transform a nonliving target into a living thing of approximately the same size.''
''Uruz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect on natural Ability rolls that involve Strength (but not Damage). General:	 The target’s Encumbrance is increased or decreased by the magnitude of this effect. General:	 The target is immune to effects that target the mind that are less than this effect’s level. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Strength by one point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude in''
''creases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score. Level 30:	Summon a wild animal that is up to Size –4. Level 35:	Summon a wild animal that is up to Size –1. Level 40:	Summon a wild animal that is up to Size +2. Level 45:	Summon a wild animal that is up to Size +5. Level 50:	Summon a wild animal that is up to Size +8.''

|}

=y=


=w=

''ment of the hunter in besting the powerful beast. When used as a target, Uruz affects the form of Animal, specifically wild or magical animals. Because of its connection to the wilderness, Uruz is also associated with rain and wild weather, occasionally translated as “drizzle,” and so may also be part of Auram.''

===Sample Uruz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), Need===

''strength for my trials. Uruz General, Method I The vitki receives a bonus equal to the magnitude of the effect to all Strengthbased Ability rolls, such as when lifting or pushing heavy objects, or when swimming,''
''climbing, or walking through extremely harsh environments.''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''summon the aurochs. Uruz 45, Method II The rune spell summons an aurochs ­— the wild beast for which the rune is named. It is not under the vitki’s control, and will probably charge like a bull at anyone who appears to threaten it. The vitki must have some part of an aurochs in order to cast the spell, which is worked into the runes. If killed, the animal’s carcass will easily feed a hundred people, who will all feel stronger and healthier after (perhaps represented by a Confidence Point), though this effect is undone if the runes are damaged or if they are destroyed.''
''W, Wunjo, “Joy”''
''(Pronounced “VUN-yoh”) This rune means comfort, bliss, and joy. This may be a sort of intoxication, or simply the absence of suffering, and it also has connotations of glory and success in battle. Those who work together towards a common goal also fall under Wunjo’s influence. Wunjo is associated with Mentem, targeting the emotions of people and intelligent beings only.''

===Sample Wunjo Rune Spells===

''(The runemaster) gives the gift of joy. Wunjo (Gebo) 20, Method II By placing these runes on a gift intended for another, the vitki ensures that it will be received with joy and deepest gratitude, easing the cares of the recipient in an almost intoxicating way.''

===I, (The Runemaster),===

''paint the runes of frenzy. Wunjo 30, Method I The vitki draws the Wunjo rune upon a warrior, who does not feel pain or fatigue for as long as the runes remain undamaged. He may ignore all Fatigue and Wound Penalties, though if he expends all of his Fatigue levels he will fall unconscious, and he may still be killed or incapacitated in this state.''
''Y, Ihwaz, “Yew”''
''(Pronounced “EYE-vahz”) Ihwaz refers to the yew tree, the wood of which is used to make longbows and which also has associations with death and witchcraft because of a traditional practice of planting it in graveyards. When used as a target, it may affect any sort of tree or bow and should be treated as an Herbam effect. The rune may also be used to target the spirits of the dead as a Mentem effect, or a gravesite as Terram.''

===Sample Ihwaz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster), Walk Swiftly===

''through the murky wood. Ihwaz 15, Method I''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Wunjo Guidelines''
''General:	The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of the effect on all natural Ability rolls involving Presence, such as telling a story, charming a companion, or leading a group. General:	 Reduce the target’s Fatigue or Wound Penalties by (the magnitude of this effect x 3). Level 20:	Cause the target to feel a power''
''ful emotion. Level 30:	The target can ignore all Fatigue or Wound Penalties. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Presence by 1 point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score.''
''Ihwaz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target receives a bonus or penalty equal to the magnitude of this effect to natural Ability rolls associated with Intelligence, such as remembering lore or outwitting an opponent. General:	 The target can sense the presence of supernatural beings with Might Score less than or equal to the level of this effect. General:	 Summon a supernatural being with Might Score less than or equal to (the level of this effect – 10). Level 15:	The target gains the ability to sense the properties of plants within about ten paces. Level 20:	The target can sense dead bodies within about ten paces. Level 25:	Animate a corpse or carcass, as''
''long as it is not protected by consecrated ground. Level 30:	Increase or decrease a target’s Intelligence by 1 point, to no more than the average score for a being of that type. Each additional magnitude increases the number of points or the upper limit, but never more than 5 above or below the average score. Level 35:	The target can speak with the dead, so long as he is within ten paces of the corpse or grave, and it is not protected by consecrated ground. Level 35:	Summon a corpse or carcass, as long as it is not protected by consecrated ground. Level 35:	Summon a tree.''

|}

=z=

''The vitki gains an intuitive understanding of the properties of trees within about ten paces, allowing him to travel quickly through an unfamiliar forest or sense the most likely direction of a particular plant.''

===I, (The Runemaster), May Speak===

''with the shades of the past. Ihwaz 35, Method I By standing within ten paces of a grave, the vitki may mentally communicate with the ghostly spirit of its inhabitants.''
''Z, Algiz, “Elk”''
''(Pronounced “AHL-ghiz,” with the “z” sounding like a rolled “r”) This rune has many meanings, all of which mean some sort of protection. It is sometimes associated with the elk — which is said to sleep leaning against a tree so that it may more easily elude hunters — and with its antlers. The rune itself is often seen as a hand warding off a blow, and the word alu is often used in spells to mean “protect me,” perhaps referring to this rune. Another interpretation is as a kind of sedge-grass that grows in marshlands, which is so prickly that it cannot be grasped. In any case, this rune is most often used for the purposes of protecting a target. Algiz almost never refers to a target directly, though because of its symbolism it can be used to affect elk, a hand, or grass, and is thus associated with Animal, Corpus, or Herbam as appropriate.''

===Sample Algiz Rune Spells===


===I, (The Runemaster) Protect===

''against beings of fire and pain. Algiz (Kauno) General, Method II The vitki carves the runes into an object, such as an amulet or a stone. For the duration of the effect, fire creatures and disease spirits with Might less than or equal to the level of this effect cannot come within ten paces of the runes, and cannot use their powers to affect anything within that area.''

===(the Runemaster) Protects===

''against the beasts of the wild. Algiz (Uruz) 10, Method II For the duration of the effect of the spell, wild animals cannot come within ten paces of the rune.''
''Modified Runes''
''After the vitkir learned to use the first runes, many of them traveled to different parts of the world and settled there. Left to develop on its own for hundreds of years on''
''many opposite shores of the North Sea, their alphabet underwent noticeable changes. The Elder Futhark, the runes described earlier, were used in the earliest spells and engravings left by the vitkir, but over time the names and meanings of the runes changed, the language became more compact, and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Algiz Guidelines''
''General:	 The target’s Soak is increased or decreased by the effect’s magnitude. General:	 All supernatural targets with Might less than or equal to the level of this effect that are associated with the''
''spell’s secondary rune are warded away from the target. Level 10:	All things that are appropriate to the secondary rune used in this spell are warded away from the target.''

|}
''The Anglo-Saxon Futhorc''
''In England, the rune wizards extended their alphabet. Scholars agree that it included the first 28 runes, and the last five may also have been included depending on era and area. Magi are certain that none of these vitkir remain in the British Isles in the 1200s, all of them having been eliminated in the war against Damhan-Alladh centuries ago, though evidence of their magic may still remain.''
''Letter Rune Name Pronounced Meaning Elder  F f Feoh FAY-oh “Wealth” Fehu U u Ur OOR “Auroch” Uruz Th T Thorn THORN “Thorn” Thurisaz O o Os OH-ss “Mouth” Ansuz R r Rad RAWD “Riding” Raido C c Cen CHEN “Torch” Kauno Gy g Gyfu GUY-voo “Gift” Gebo W w Wynn WIN “Joy” Wunjo H h Haegl HA-wull “Hail” Hagalaz N n Nyd NID “Need” Naudiz  I i Is EES “Ice” Isa  J j Ger YER “Year” Jera Y I Eoh EE-oh “Yew” Ihwaz  P p Peordh POHR-th “Cup” Perth X x Eolhx OHLHK “Elk” Algiz  S s Sigel SEE-wel “Sun” Sowilo T t Tir TEER “Star” Tiwaz  B b Beorc BORK “Birch” Berkanan  E e Eh EH “Horse” Ehwaz M m Mann MAHN “Man” Mannaz  L l Lagu LAH-wuh “Water” Laguz Ng N Ing ING “Hero” Ingwaz D d Daeg DAY “Day” Dagaz Oe E Ethel EE-thell “Homeland” Othila A a Ac AWK “Oak” Ae A Aesc ASH “Ash” Yr  Yr YAHR “Bow” Ea q Ear EAR “Grave” G G Gar GAR “Spear” K k Calc KAHLK “Chalk” Q O Cweorth QUORTH “Fire twirl” St p Stan STAYN “Stone” Or  Ior OHR “Water monster”''
''the runemasters began using fewer characters. This variation came to be known as the Younger Futhark. In England, the vitkir and Norse settlers expanded the alphabet instead, eventually adding four more runes and altering the meaning of many of the others, producing a very different set of runes called the Futhorc. Their rune poems were then edited by the well-intentioned monks who translated them from the foreign tongue into Latin, removing references to giants, demons, and other frightening ideas, and integrating the Christian God into many of the lines. The same magic system given in this chapter can be used to work magic with these other rune alphabets, though both are weaker than the original Elder Futhark. The magic of the Younger Futhark uses only 16 of the 24 runes (as shown in the insert), and so requires less experience to develop but is also less versatile — these characters open fewer runes when they are first introduced to the tradition. The Anglo-Saxon Futhorc has as many as 33 characters, and so the power of the Elder runes is similarly weakened as experience is divided among all of these additional runes.''
''Hermetic Integration''
''For magi seeking to expand the capabilities of their magic, the vitkir and their runes can be investigated and converted into Hermetic Virtues as a Major Breakthrough. The suggested mechanics for describing this discovery can be found in Ancient Magic, pages 138-140. In essence, the magus receives a new Rune Duration and a new Inscription Target, which work similarly to Ring and Circle but do not require penetration. Also, at the storyguide’s discretion, magi who undergo Odin’s Sacrifice (described above) may receive an automatic Discovery towards the development of Hermetic Rune Magic. Note that the Order of Hermes is generally considered to be at war with the Order of Odin — as many magi think of the vitkir — and has been since the ninth century. This may make things difficult for magi who wish to learn from a living vitki. Perhaps they could convince him to join the Order of Hermes and swear the Oath, giving him some degree of safety as a member of House Ex Miscellanea, but there may still be those in the Order of Hermes who will hunt down the vitki simply because of his ancestry, and he may be obliged to keep his magic secret.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The Younger Futhark''
''In Denmark and Germany, the Futhark began to develop over time, both as it was used to communicate and to work magic. Many of the names of the runes and their meanings changed as the language became condensed, and the runemasters eventually settled on a set of 16 runes instead of the original 24. Instead of three aetts made up of eight runes, in this system the first aett had only six runes and the other two had five. Missing are Gebo, Wunjo, Perth, Algiz, Ehwaz, Ingwaz, Dagz, and Othila. This variation came to be known as the Younger Futhark.''
''Letter Rune Name Pronounced Meaning Elder  F f Fe FAY “Wealth” Fehu U u Ur OOR “Drizzle” Uruz Th  Thurs THURZ “Ogre” Thurisaz A  Ass AHSS “God” Ansuz R r Reidh RAYTH “Ride” Raido K k Kaun COWN “Sore” Kauno H h Hagall HAH-gall “Hail” Hagalaz N n Naudhr NOW-thur “Need” Naudiz  I i Iss EES “Ice” Isa  J a Ar AHR “Year” Jera  S s Sol SOHL “Sun” Sowilo T t Tyr TEER “Tyr” Tiwaz  B b Bjarkan BYAR-kahn “Birch” Berkanan M m Madhr mah-THUR “Man” Mannaz  L l Logr lah-GHUR “Water” Laguz Y y Yr EAR “Yew” Ihwaz''

|}
''Eirik Svennson, Warrior Vitki''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre –1, Com –1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 29 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Vitki; Major Rune Focus (Sigrunar); Fast Caster, Puissant Othila (free); Natt-thel Prone; Susceptibility to Divine Power Personality Traits: Brave +3, Stubborn +2, Loyal (to other vitkir) +1 Combat: Long Sword: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +7, Damage +8 Long Sword (when enchanted): Init +7, Attack +15, Defense +12, Damage +8 Soak: +6 (+11 when enchanted) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 2 (dodging), Carouse 1 (with soldiers), Craft: Runes 2 (in metal), Leadership 2 (in battle), Norse 5 (soldiers’ slang), Old Norse 3 (writing runes), Rune Magic 5 (Tiwaz), Single Weapon 5 (long sword) Arts: A 0, B 6, D 5, E 0, F 0, G 0, H 0, I 0, J 0, K 0, L 0, M 8, N 0, Ng 0, O 9+2, P 0, R 0, S 0, T 10, Th 0, U 5, W 4, Y 0, Z 10 Equipment: Partial leather scale, long sword Encumbrance: 0 (4) Scripts Known: I, Eirik Svennson, bound this wound. (B 15/+8)''
''Berkanan 15, Method I The target receives a +9 bonus to recovery rolls from combat injuries, as long as the rune remains intact for the entire recovery period. I, Eirik Svennson, will work well this day. (D 15/+6) Dagaz 15, Method I The target receives a +3 bonus to any activity performed all day. Eirik Svennson leads men to greatness. (M 20/+18) I, Eirik Svennson, strengthen the sword of my ancestors. (O 25/+24) Othila 25, Method I The target receives a +5 bonus to Initiative, Attack, and Defense rolls made with a particular sword. Eirik typically inscribes the runes on the sword he inherited from his father, so that the effect endures only as long as he wields it (since he is the target of the spell, the sword must be “part of him” for the duration). I, Eirik Svennson, invoke Tyr’s power. (T 25/+22) Tiwaz 25, Method I The target receives a +5 bonus to Attack rolls. Eirik typically inscribes the runes on another warrior’s sword, so that the effect endures only as long as he wields it. I, Eirik Svennson, invoke Tyr’s cunning. (T 25/+22) Tiwaz 25, Method I The target receives a +5 bonus to Defense rolls. Eirik typically inscribes the runes on another warrior’s sword, so that the effect endures only as long as he wields it. I, Eirik Svennson, call my helmet alu. (Z 25/+22) Algiz 25, Method I The target receives a +5 bonus to Soak. Eirik typically inscribes the runes on his helmet, so that''
''the effect endures only as long as he wears it. Eirik Svennson protects against the beasts of the wild. (Z 10/+7) Appearance: Eirik is a tall, lanky, and cleanshaven Norwegian man with dark hair, wearing a suit of leather mail and helmet. He holds a long sword carved with runes all along the blade.''
''Eirik is a vitki in the service of the king of Norway, specifically answering to his uncle Sven Svennson, a powerful duke. Like many of the vitkir in this part of Scandinavia, Eirik is a member of the political group known as birchfeet (the birkebeiners), who have supported the northern kings in the last forty years of civil war, which have just recently ended. At his command is a unit of soldiers and builders that his uncle has placed under his authority, the leaders of which he has trained himself and has worked long enough with for them to grow used to his Gift. This does not stop constant low-level murmuring among the lower ranks, but so far this has been kept under control and the veterans are gradually becoming used to him. His group is stationed on the outskirts of the city that will become Trondheim, the capital, to rebuild its defenses and guard against trouble. His uncle expects him to be a great leader and soldier, though he is still a little too naive to appreciate the privileged position in Norse society he currently occupies.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
