''The Intangible Assassin project is a series of spells based around effects like Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ArM5, page 162). The main purpose of the effects is for the magus to be effective at waging Wizard’s War, although of course, this is not the only strategy for excelling at Wizard’s War. Many of the components in this project are also useful for gathering information about and attacking opponents other than magi. A lot of the effects in this project are low level, as one of the challenges encountered in Wizard’s War is Penetrating the Magic Resistance of your opponent. Note that this means that although many of the effects might be easily cast spontaneously, it is still worthwhile for a magus to invent the formulaic spells — Penetration is the key to using these spells. The components of this project can be easily invented by a single magus acting alone, or by a group of magi working together. Of course, magi who work together on this project must trust each other a lot. Naturally, it is not compulsory for a magus to invent all of the effects in this project.''

==Why Invent These Effects?==

''The obvious reason for a magus to invent these effects is that he intends to declare Wizard’s War on other characters. This reason might especially appeal to magi of House Tytalus and House Flam''
''beau, and also to other magi who are heavily involved in political conflicts. Magi who wish to hunt down the enemies of the Order (such as infernalists and those sentenced by a Tribunal for high crimes) might also be interested in developing these effects to attack other magi. The Intangible Tunnel based effects are also useful for dealing with supernatural creatures from the safety of the magus’ laboratory. Mundane characters, such as princes, bandits, or even lowly peasants can also be attacked, helped, or manipulated via the use of Intangible Tunnel-style effects. Intangible Tunnel effects are particularly useful for attacking mundane rulers because (unless the court employs a magus as a court wizard) there is little evidence that can be pinned on the Order of Hermes, and the death of the mundane ruler may appear to be due to “natural” causes such as an accident or disease. Intangible Tunnel effects are good for attacking characters who are located within urban Divine auras (such as mundane rulers, or magi who have sought sanctuary on church grounds). This is because an attacking magus can cast spells such as the Intangible Tunnel from the safely of his Laboratory, within a Magic aura. Thus, he does not suffer from the casting penalties (or risk the botch die) associated with the Divine aura surrounding the target. The target still receives a bonus (or penalty) to his Magic Resistance based upon the local aura, but this only matters if the character has a Magic Resistance score at all. A magus might also invent these effects because he fears that others will declare Wizard’s War on him. This could''
''be because he has resources he suspects others desire, or because he is embroiled in political conflict within the tribunal. Alternatively, the magus could merely be paranoid. If the magus is worried about others declaring Wizard’s War on him, then he might choose to publicize some of these effects (by submitting the Lab Texts to the Great Library at Durenmar, for example). The reason for publication is that, by demonstrating his possible competence at Wizard’s War, the magus might dissuade others from declaring Wizard’s War on him. Another strategy he might adopt is to invent some of these effects, and then demonstrate his efficacy (without revealing too much of his methods) by declaring and prosecuting Wizard’s War on another (politically unconnected) magus. Of course, this is quite a sociopathic strategy which may cause other magi in the tribunal to view the magus with suspicion and fear — although that is partly the intent.''

==What is Wizard’s War?==

''Wizard’s War is the ultimate conflict between two magi. Hermetic Law allows Wizard’s War to be declared for any reason, and there can be no Tribunal sanction against a magus for killing or otherwise harming his foe during a justly declared and executed Wizard’s War. A formal Wizard’s War is initiated by the delivery of a declaration (usually via a''
''Redcap messenger) on the night of the full moon. The Wizard’s War itself begins one month later, on the night of the next full moon, and lasts for one month (until the rise of the next full moon after that). Wizard’s War is usually fought for political gain, to settle personal disputes, or to capture resources. Sometimes a magus declares Wizard’s War merely to force his opponent to cower within the sanctuary of his covenant, rather than as a serious attempt to cause direct harm. This might occur when one magus is wanting to prevent another weaker magus from attending some event, such as a Tribunal or a Mystery Cult activity like the Gathering of Twelve Years. Declaring Wizard’s War for these reasons can be risky, as the supposedly weak target of a Wizard’s War may have unexpected allies who could counter-declare against the aggressor magus. As declarations of Wizard’s War must be delivered on the night of a full moon, the earliest that counter-declarations can''
''be made in response to a Wizard’s War is one month later, on the eve of the original War, and these declarations will not have legal effect until the close of the first Wizard’s War. Magi often use the month of grace after receiving a declaration of Wizard’s War to organize their defenses. There is not usually enough time for a magus to research or learn any new spells, so often his preparation consists of traveling to a place of safety (perhaps one of the major covenants of Mythic Europe which are protected by high magnitude Aegis of the Hearth rituals), gathering vis, and casting defensive spells that he already knows. A particularly devious magus might try to prevent his foe from preparing, by surreptitiously attacking and killing his foe prior to the declaration of Wizard’s War. Necromantic magic can then be used to keep the death from being discovered until the legitimate Wizard’s War period. Clearly, such a plan would be a Hermetic crime, but it is one that a well-prepared magus might feel he''
''can get away with, particularly if his foe has a reputation for reclusively working long hours in his laboratory. Sometimes an individual declares Wizard’s War on many individuals, such as everyone living at a particular covenant. This strategy prevents a magus from being prosecuting for causing damage to the persons or property of the sodales of the true Wizard’s War target. Groups of magi might also declare Wizard’s War on an individual or another group, such as another covenant. This allows the legal use of spells such as Wizard’s Communion when casting Intangible Tunnel-style effects. If an entire covenant of magi declares Wizard’s War on an individual or another covenant, it is a good idea for one of the magi to refrain from declaring Wizard’s War on their enemies, and remain uninvolved. This tactic offers the aggressors’ own covenant some legal protection from counter attacks during the Wizard’s War, as the uninvolved magus’ life or property cannot legally be damaged. More general information about Wizard’s War can be found in Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 22–25, and Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 47–48.''

==Tunnel Spells==

''The essential ingredient for waging Wizard’s War in this manner is the spell Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ArM5, page 162). A few variations on this spell, and ways to manipulate the tunnels, are described here.''

==What is an Intangible Tunnel Effect?==

''Intangible Tunnel effects are all Rego Vim effects. These effects all create a mystical conduit, a tunnel, between the caster and the target. The following general rules apply to these tunnels.''
''• Both the caster and target can cast''
''spells through the tunnel. • The caster and target are considered to''
''be within Touch range of each other. • The tunnel only allows spells of a''
''particular level (and lower) to be cast through it (see individual tunnel descriptions). • Any number of spells (that are each individually of the permitted size) may be cast through the tunnel, as long as it is open. For example, in a single round, three multi-cast Searing Touch (each level 5) and a Fast Cast Claw of the Gladiator (level 10) could all be cast through a tunnel that accepts spells up to level 10. • Spells cast through the tunnel must''
''target the original target of the tunnel (or the original caster, if cast in the other direction). It is not possible to cast, say, a Demon’s Eternal Oblivion effect through the tunnel to target a demon standing near the original target. It is, however, possible to target other characters in addition to the original target. For example, it is possible to cast a spell with a Group target through the tunnel to affect the original target and his companions. Touching a member of a Group is sufficient to affect the whole Group. It is also possible to cast a sense spell to see the location of the target, which might also reveal information about other characters. It is possible to cast spells through the tunnel that affect the Room, Structure, or Boundary that the target is in, as touching a thing in a Room, Structure, or Boundary is sufficient to affect the entire Room, Structure, or Boundary. Of course, if the target is not actually within a Room, Structure, or Boundary, such spells will be ineffective. • Other magi can also cast spells through''
''the tunnel (from either end) on either the target or the caster. The effective range is the range to the local end of the tunnel. • Any spontaneous, formulaic, or ritual''
''Hermetic spell that is at least Touch''
''range and does not exceed the permitted level may be cast through the tunnel. Spells do not have to be specially designed to work with the tunnel. Touch range spells may be used through the tunnel by both the caster and the target. Voice range spells may be used through the tunnel by anybody within Voice range of their local tunnel end. Sight range spells are usable by anybody within Sight range of their local tunnel end. Remember that such spells must target either the original target of the tunnel, or the original caster, as described earlier. • Anybody using the tunnel must first''
''sense it. Only the caster automatically senses the presence of the tunnel. Other characters (including the target) must use Intellego Vim effects (or similar) to detect the tunnel. Note that a Hermetic magus with sufficient Magic Theory may well be able to infer the presence of a tunnel, but this does not by itself allow him to cast spells through the tunnel. • The tunnel does not provide the caster''
''or target with any sense impressions of their opposite, although obviously spells that provide sensory information may be cast through the tunnel.''
''• The tunnel spell must Penetrate the''
''Magic Resistance of the target. All other spells cast through the tunnel must also Penetrate the Magic Resistance of whomever they target, as normal. • The caster and target (and other magi''
''using the tunnel) receive bonuses or penalties to their Magic Resistance and Casting Total, depending on their local aura. The caster and target could obviously each be in auras of different level and type. • Tunnel spells, and spells cast through''
''tunnels, interact normally with the Aegis of the Hearth ritual. If either the target (or the caster) are standing within an Aegis, then any incoming spells must Penetrate the level of the Aegis, unless the caster of the spell either participated in the Aegis casting or has a token to the Aegis. Outgoing spells do not need to Penetrate an Aegis that protects the caster. However, note that if the target or caster is standing within a hostile Aegis, then his Casting Total will be reduced by half the level of the Aegis (as is normal). • The tunnel remains in place for the''
''duration of the spell that created it, unless it is dispelled or similar.  Spells cast through the tunnel with a dura''

[|

==Story Seed: The Demon that Stared Back==

''It is not possible for non-Hermetic powers to be used through an Intangible Tunnel-style effect. This means that a “safe” way to hunt infernalists (and hedge wizards) is to employ grogs to hunt down Arcane Connections to the quarry, which can then be safely eliminated via an Intangible Tunnel from the sanctuary of the magi’s laboratory. Within the tribunal, there is a secret group of demon hunters who slay infernalists using this strategy. The group is secret because collecting Arcane Connections to infernalists is considered highly suspicious and likely evidence of infernalism itself. Unfortunately, the demon hunters stumble upon a infernalist who is accompanied by a demon''
''who recognizes the tunnel and can, in fact, use his powers back through the tunnel. Another possibility is that the demon manages to open a similar tunnel straight back to the magi, and then disguises his parallel tunnel with impenetrable diabolic illusions. Either way, the demon has managed to control the minds of some of the demon hunters, and sets about using these pawns to corrupt the Order. The player characters might be caught up in the machinations of the demon-controlled demon hunters. Alternatively, they could be uncorrupt members of the secret group of demon hunters who gradually come to realize that their allies have been corrupted.''

|]
''tion that exceeds that of the tunnel continue to have their effect after the tunnel closes and expire normally. The exception is spells that require Touch range to be maintained. The troupe will need to decide on a case-by-case basis whether a spell requires Touch range to be maintained; many Touch range spells do not. • It is possible to use Hermetic effects in''
''items or talismans through a tunnel. • It is not usually possible to use non-Hermetic magic, creature powers, or Supernatural Abilities through a tunnel, although your troupe may, of course, rule that a particular non-Hermetic power is an exception. Most magi would be very surprised if non-Hermetic magic were used through an Intangible Tunnel. However, Hermetic effects that incorporate exotic ranges, durations, targets, or guidelines — Merinita Faerie Magic, or the result of integration of a hedge tradition, for example — can be used through a tunnel. • Although the target and caster are''
''mystically considered within Touch range of each other, they are not literally within Touch range. The tunnel is intangible. It is not possible, for example, to attack with melee weapons through the tunnel.''

==Tunnel Variants==

''These spells are all variants on the Opening the Intangible Tunnel spell (ArM5, page 162).''
''The Minute of Reckoning''
''ReVi Gen R: Arcane, D: Diameter, T: Individual This spells opens a magical tunnel between the caster and the target. Spells cast through this tunnel can be up to the level of this spell. Unlike the Opening the Intangible Tunnel spell, the caster does not need to maintain concentration on this spell; this spell has''
''duration of Diameter. This has advantages (the caster doesn’t need to maintain concentration) and disadvantages (the tunnel cannot be swiftly closed by ceasing to concentrate). Note that, despite the name of this spell, a Diameter duration spell actually lasts for two minutes. (Base effect, +4 Arc, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level (see insert).''
''The Cursèd Day''
''ReVi Gen R: Arcane, D: Sun, T: Individual This spells opens a magical tunnel between the caster and the target. Spells cast through this tunnel must be at least one magnitude less than the level of this spell. This spell has duration of Sun. (Base effect, +4 Arc, +2 Sun) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level (see insert).''
''Wizard’s Siege''
''ReVi Gen R: Arcane, D: Moon, T: Individual This spells opens a magical tunnel between the caster and the target. Spells cast through this tunnel must be at least two magnitudes less than the level of this spell. This spell has a duration of Moon. A confident magus might cast this spell immediately after the Wizard’s War begins. (Base effect, +4 Arc, +3 Moon) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level.''
''The Evil Eye''
''ReVi Gen R: Sight, D: Diameter, T: Individual Sometimes a magus cannot acquire an Arcane Connection to his quarry. This spell opens a tunnel between the magus''

[|

==Required Laboratory Totals==

''A number of spells in this chapter, including the Intangible Tunnel variant spells, are general spells. Depending upon the level of the spell desired the following Lab Totals are required to invent each spell.''
''Level 5 Lab Totals''
''One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7), Four Seasons (7).''
''Level 10 Lab Totals''
''One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Level 15 Lab Totals''
''One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''
''Level 20 Lab Totals''
''One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Level 25 Lab Totals''
''One Season (50), Two Seasons (38), Three Seasons (34), Four Seasons (32).''
''Level 30 Lab Totals''
''One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''
''Level 35 Lab Totals''
''One Season (70), Two Seasons (53), Three Seasons (47), Four Seasons (44).''
''Level 40 Lab Totals''
''One Season (80), Two Seasons (60), Three Seasons (54), Four Seasons (50).''

|]
''and any target within Sight Range. The advantage of this is that it lowers the effective range between the magus and the target — which means that lower magnitude effects can be used on the target, which should increase the effective Penetration Total. Effects cast through The Evil Eye tunnel can be up to one magnitude greater than the magnitude of The Evil Eye spell. (Base effect, +3 Sight, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level.''
''The Master’s Message''
''ReVi Gen R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual This spell opens a tunnel between the magus and a character that he touches. Once it is cast, the tunnel remains in place, even if the characters break contact. The purpose of this spell is to enable the magus to open a tunnel between himself and a grog. The grog can then depart on a mission, and the magus is able to monitor his progress and cast spells through the tunnel as required. Even if the grog character has no Magic Resistance, it is a good idea to record the Penetration of this spell, as the grog may try to pass through a hostile Aegis. Effects cast through The Master’s Message tunnel can be up to one magnitude greater than the magnitude of The Master’s Message spell. (Base effect, +1 Touch, +3 Moon) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level.''

==Manipulating the Tunnel==

''The Intangible Tunnel and similar spells present the caster with a problematic vulnerability: the target can use the magical tunnel to cast spells back at the caster. A conventional Intangible Tunnel is a Concentration duration effect, so it is relatively easy for the caster to close the magical tunnel if events go awry by merely ceasing''
''to concentrate on the tunnel. However, the more flexible variants presented here have long durations and thus cannot be simply stopped. The following spells can be used by the caster to control when the Intangible Tunnel-style effects are open. In addition, the spell Unravelling the Fabric of Vim (ArM5, page 161) may be used to collapse a tunnel from either end. However, note that only the original caster of the tunnel spell can easily destroy the tunnel in this way. Other characters (including the target of the tunnel) must first use some sort of magical sense (usually Intellego Vim magic) to detect the tunnel spell. Alternatively, a Room or Structure variant of Unravelling the Fabric of Vim would not require the actual tunnel to be detected, as long as one of the ends of the tunnel were within the Room or Structure. Of course, unless he is excessively paranoid, a character still needs to somehow infer that a tunnel is (or might be) present.''
''Arcane Seal''
''ReVi Gen R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual This spell can be cast on a magical tunnel created by an Intangible Tunnel-style of effect, but it may only be cast by the magus who originally cast the Intangible Tunnel''
''effect, because this spell uses the “suppress own spell” guideline (see ArM5, page 161). The tunnel is sealed for the duration of this spell, and spells can no longer be cast through the tunnel in either direction. When this spell expires, or it is ended some other way, the tunnel may be used again (if it has not expired in the meantime). This spell may be used to seal Intangible Tunnel type effects of a level up to one magnitude less than this spell. The seal itself appears as a Hermetic sigil emblazoned in the air. Note that the seal itself is a spell, and so can be dispelled. However, the seal is only present at the caster’s end of the Intangible Tunnel. There is nothing to dispel at the other end. (Base effect, +1 Touch, + 2 Sun) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level.''
''Break the Siege''
''ReVi Gen R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Individual This spell suppresses a magical tunnel created by Hermetic Vim magic, if the level of the magical tunnel creating spell is less than or equal to half the level of this spell + 1 magnitude. For the duration of this spell, spells can no longer be cast''

[|

==Story Seed: Bridge to the Magic Realm==

''The player characters discover a covenant (or maybe the laboratory of a sodales) seemingly overrun with magical creatures, and the magus missing. The remains of the magus’ laboratory notes indicate that he was experimenting with variants on The Intangible Tunnel. Can the player characters find the missing magus, and deal with the magical creatures? One possible explanation for the magus’ disappearance is that, when an Intangible Tunnel-style of effect is botched, one possible result is the brief creation of a tunnel to the Magic Realm. This tunnel opens for only''
''a fraction of a round, but if it does happen, then characters within Voice Range of the botch may be drawn into the Magic Realm. Avoiding this is similar to avoiding Twilight (see ArM5, page 88). If the characters do not avoid being drawn into the Magic Realm, then they must find another way back to the mundane world. It is possible that creatures from the Magic realm may also find their way back along the bridge. The magnitude of the Might of such creatures cannot exceed the magnitude of the botched spell. The Magic Realm is described in Realms of Power: Magic, pages 17-28.''

|]
''through the tunnel, in either direction. When this spell expires, or it is ended some other way, the tunnel may be used again (if it has not expired in the meantime). It is a good idea to master this spell taking the Fast Casting mastery (ArM5, page 87). This spell can be cast at either end of the magical tunnel. However, note that, without the aid of magical senses, only the original caster of the magical tunnel can target it. Of course, the Break the Siege effect is a spell, and can be dispelled itself. However, the Break the Siege spell is only present at the end which it was cast at. There is nothing to dispel at the other end. (Base effect, +2 Voice, +2 Sun) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level.''

==Defending Against Intangible Tunnels==

''The obvious way to defend against Intangible Tunnel-style effects is to dispel the tunnel, using an effect like Unraveling the Fabric of Vim (see ArM5, page 161). Of course, to do this, the character needs to know that an Intangible Tunnel is present. For this purpose a device like the Assassin’s Bell can be invented. An effect like Eyes for the''
''Lurking Assassin is still required in order to actually target the tunnel. Some magi also learn an Intangible Tunnel-style of spell and then master it taking the Magic Resistance mastery (ArM5, page 87). This works because all of the Intangible Tunnel-style effects are similar spells, and it considerably reduces the magus’ vulnerability to all such spells. However, as this usually occupies at least two seasons (one to learn the spell, another to master it), many magi do not take this precaution, being too busy with their own projects. Note that this spell mastery only protects a magus against the casting of an Intangible Tunnel-style spell; it does not give any extra protection against spells cast through an Intangible Tunnel once it exists — regardless of who cast the Intangible Tunnel.''
''Assassin’s Bell''
''This invested item is a copper bell. It is designed to be hung in a magus’ sanctum. A magus might even carry this bell with him at all times during a Wizard’s War. The copper bell is a small base metal object, which requires 10 pawns of vis to open for enchantment. This requires a Magic Theory of 5 and one season. The bell has two effects that require 5 and 2 pawns of vis to invest respectively.''
''Hearing the Tearing InVi 49 Pen: 0, constant effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Hearing This effect enables the bell to hear when an Intangible Tunnel-style of effect is within Hearing distance (about 15 paces), which easily encompasses a normal-sized laboratory. Note that this spell requires no Penetration as an Intangible Tunnel does not have any Magic Resistance. This effect triggers the Clarion Call bell-ringing effect. (Base 5, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing, +3 detailed information; +4 constant effect) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (98), Two Seasons (74), Three Seasons (66), Four Seasons (62).''
''Clarion Call ReTe 17 Pen: 0, unlimited uses R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual This effect rings the bell continuously, if the Hearing the Tearing effect detects an Intangible Tunnel. (Base 2, +2 effect metal; +10 unlimited uses, +3 linked trigger) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (34), Two Seasons (26), Three Seasons (23), Four Seasons (22).''
''Listen to the Bells''
''InTe 30 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual The caster of spell holds a bell and he can sense whatever the bell can sense with its magical senses. Usually a bell has no magical senses, but this spell is useful if the bell has been enchanted with some, as is the Assassin’s Bell. In the case of the Assassin’s Bell, using the bell’s senses provides enough information to use or target tunnels that the bell can hear. (Base 20, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''
''Eyes for the Lurking Assassin''
''InVi 45 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Vision This spell detects the presence of an Intangible Tunnel-style tunnel, and reveals its sigil. This is sufficient information to use the tunnel or target the tunnel itself with spells. Note that a general Intellego Vim spell to detect magic might be used to provide similar information. This spell, however, specifically detects only Intangible Tunnel effects. This is useful because, as a magus is likely to be often among a lot of magical effects, he does not want to take time to scan his surroundings individually identifying specific effects as he searches for an Intangible Tunnel (see See the Light of Magic). This is important because, if the magus suspects he is under attack by an Intangible Tunnel, he may only have moments to react. (Base 5, +1 Diameter, +4 Vision, +3 detailed information) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (90), Two Seasons (68), Three Seasons (60), Four Seasons (57).''
''Flesh Crawls at the Intangible Touch''
''InVi 30 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Touch''
''The caster feels his skin crawling when he is the target of an Intangible Tunnel-style tunnel. This provides sufficient information to use the tunnel or target the tunnel itself with spells. However, note that this only works if the caster is himself the target of the tunnel. It does not work on tunnels that are cast on other characters. As with Eyes for the Lurking Assassin, a general detection spell might be useful too, but would perhaps make it more difficult to rapidly identify the tunnel in an emergency situation. (Base 5, +1 Diameter, +1 Touch, +3 detailed information) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''
''See the Light of Magic''
''InVi 30 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Vision The caster can detect all active magical effects. Spells appear as glowing lights with a brightness proportional to their magnitude. This spell provides sufficient information to target the sensed magical effects, but the magus does not receive any information about the magical effects, and therefore he does not know which effect is which, if he is looking for a particular one. However, if the caster has used this spell previously, he can identify the presence of a new effect. If there is a large number of effects present, the troupe may rule that a Perception + Awareness roll is required to notice this detail — the Ease Factor should be modified by the total number of effects the caster can perceive and the magnitude of the new effect (relative to the other effects). There may be a large number of magical effects active within the vicinity of the magus — Parma Magica, longevity rituals, Aegis of the Hearth, familiar bonds, enchanted items, and of course, any active spells will all be detected. Active, non-Hermetic, but magical, effects are''
''also detected. (Base 5, +1 Diameter, +4 Vision) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''

==Wizard’s War Tunnel Effects==

''These effects are designed to be cast through Intangible Tunnel-style effects. They are grouped according to magnitude. As these effects are low magnitude, a magus may be tempted to attempt these effects as spontaneous spells. However, if the target has a Magic Resistance (as most magi do, due to the Parma Magica) then the caster will be able to Penetrate much more easily with a formulaic effect. A character truly proficient at Wizard’s War would likely learn several of these effects. This is because many magi are unusually resilient against particular Forms (due to both the Form bonus to Magic Resistance and special Virtues, such as Immunity). Spell masteries, such as Multiple Casting and Penetration (see ArM5, page 87), can make some of these spells delivered via Intangible Tunnels much more effective. If a character has a high Parma Magica (or is sheltering within a high-level Aegis of the Hearth), then it may only be possible to affect him with the lowest-level effects. One possible strategy is to use low-level effects, such as the Chill Touch of Exposure, to render the magus unconscious. He can then be easily dispatched with mundane means, such as a knife to the back.''

==First-Magnitude Effects==

''These effects have the lowest magnitude, and thus the highest Penetration.''
''Sense of the Lodestone''
''InCo 5 R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual The caster senses the distance and direction to the target. The caster must have an Arcane Connection to the target. A Momentary duration version of this spell would actually be sufficient to determine the distance and direction of the target. However, by concentrating for several rounds, the caster can also use this spell to estimate the speed and direction of the target (if the target is in motion). (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Befuddled Speaker''
''ReCo 5 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual The target stutters and slurs. Communication rolls made for the target are at –3, and he has a –6 penalty to spoken spellcasting (and an additional botch die). (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Searing Touch''
''CrIg 5 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The caster’s fingers burn the target, leaving a brand in the shape of the caster’s hand. The target takes +5 damage. Note that if this spell is not cast through an Intangible Tunnel, the caster will receive damage too. (Base 4, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Chill Touch of Exposure''
''PeIg 5 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The target shivers like an unwanted baby left alone in a cold and frosty dell, losing a Fatigue level. Repeated casting of this spell can cause the character to eventually become unconscious; this usually takes 5 castings. Mastering this spell with the Multiple Casting mastery can reduce the time that this takes. Once the target is unconscious, additional castings of the spell increase the length of time that the target naturally remains unconscious (see ArM5, page 179) If the target is unconscious at either sunrise or sunset, then his Parma Magica will go down. (Base 4, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Fingers for Eyes''
''InIm 5 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Room The caster can see the Room that the person he touches is in. The spell can be used by a blind magus to “see,” by moving around with his hand on the shoulder of a servant. It can also be used to see the location that an Intangible Tunnel-style effect terminates in. This spell only works if the person touched is actually in a Room. This spell must Penetrate in order to sense creatures with Magic Resistance. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +2 Room) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Breath of the Sleeper''
''InMe 5 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual''
''This spell detects whether the target is asleep or not. (Base 4, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''
''Nails of Iron''
''PeVi 5 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The touch of the caster tears at the fabric of stories. The target faerie is weakened and loses 10 Might Score. This must Penetrate the faerie’s Magic Resistance. If the faerie is reduced to 0 Might it is destroyed. Note that this spell is of little use in a Wizard’s War. However, it is a good way to attack a faerie if the magus has discovered an Arcane Connection to it (and can therefore open an Intangible Tunnel to the faerie). Similar spells can be used to attack creatures of other realms. (Base 4, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (10), Two Seasons (8), Three Seasons (7).''

==Second-Magnitude Effects==

''While these effects have a slightly lower Penetration, they are substantially more effective.''
''Sulfurous Membrane''
''MuAu(Co) 10 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part This effect transforms the air entering the character’s lungs into a noxious sulfur vapor that causes +1 damage each round. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun , +1 Part, +1 Corpus requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Claw of the Gladiator''
''PeCo 10 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell opens a bloody wound on the target, which serves as a Light Wound. (Base 5, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Close the Black Gate''
''PeCo 10 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell destroys a corpse, turning it into a black pool of sticky, viscous liquid. This effect can be used to stop the sodales of a Wizard’s War victim from using a Whispers Through the Black Gate to ask his ghost how he was attacked. Obviously, there are other techniques for communicating with a ghost. However, Whispers Through the Black Gate is the most common such spell in use in the Order. (Base 5, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Snatched Voice''
''PeIm 10 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual The target loses the ability to make sound. If she is a maga and attempts to cast spells, she suffers the penalties for silent casting. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +1 changing image) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Slap of Absent Magic''
''PeMe 10 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual''
''The target forgets how to consciously use one Form for the duration of the spell. This includes casting spontaneous, formulaic, and ritual spells of the Form. It also includes spells that use the Form as a requisite. Unconscious use of the Form (for example, the Form bonus to Magic Resistance) is unaffected. When this spell ends, the target recalls how to use the Form. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Touch of Falling Feathers''
''ReMe 10 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual The target rapidly falls into a deep sleep. As the spell has a non-Momentary duration, the target cannot be naturally wakened until either this spell is dispelled, or the duration expires. If the target is asleep either at sunrise or at sunset, then his Parma Magica will go down. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Break the Shield''
''PeVi 10 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell dispels the Parma Magica of the target. The target’s Parma Magica Score must be less than (25 + stress die) divided by 5. The target can, of course, recast his Parma Magica in subsequent rounds, but the target may not notice that his Parma Magic has been dispelled until it is too late. Obviously, this spell is only really useful for attacking other magi. Thus, some tribunals may view magi who are known to have invented this spell with suspicion. On the other hand, there are''
''legitimate reasons for knowing this spell — prosecuting Wizard’s War and hunting Marched magi are entirely legal and uncontroversial pursuits. Like all spells, this spell must Penetrate to be effective. Higher-level versions of this are possible for attacking targets with greater Parma Magica scores. Note that this spell uses the Perdo Vim guideline, which dispels magic effects of a specific type (ArM5, page 160). Parma Magica is an example of a magical effect of a specific type, which all Hermetic magi are familiar with. This is why Wind of Mundane Silence (ArM5, page 161), which dispels all magical effects is effective against Parma Magica. This spell does not dispel Magic Resistance generated via other sources, nor is this spell effective against any other sorts of magic. (Base 5, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''

==Third-Magnitude Effects==

''Although the level of these spells may make their Penetration a bit too low, the use of sympathetic connections to boost Penetration totals can make them very effective.''
''Trap of Amber''
''ReCo 15 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual The caster freezes the target in place for the duration of the spell. As well as being unable to move, the target can neither speak nor use gestures in spell casting, and he takes the appropriate penalties if he does try to cast spells regardless. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''
''Curse of the Blasted Heath''
''PeHe 15 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part This spell destroys all wooden items that the target is carrying. Note that many magical items and talismans are made of wood or have wooden components. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Part) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''
''Fading Star of Evening''
''CrVi 15 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell causes wild, uncontrolled magic to course through the target. He gains two Warping Points, and if he is a magus, he must check to see whether he enters Twilight. (Base 10, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''

==Fourth-Magnitude Effects==

''These are the highest-level effects that really make sense for Wizard’s War. Any higher, and if the magus can muster the necessary Penetration, he is most likely overwhelmingly more powerful than his opponent.''
''Lungs of Drowning''
''CrAq(Co) 20 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Part This spell fills the target’s lungs with water, causing him to experience the sensation of drowning. The character begins to suffer deprivation due to lack of air (see ArM5, page 180), but as the spell only lasts for Diameter duration (two minutes), the character is unlikely''
''to die unless the spell is repeatedly cast on him. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +1 Part, +1 Corpus requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Face of Molded Clay''
''Mu(Pe)Co 20 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part The caster molds the target’s face into a horrific and ugly visage. The destruction of the character’s features cripples his senses and makes others unable to understand his speech. It is obvious to all who see the character that he has been cursed by some magical effect. The target has a –3 penalty to all speech (including spellcasting) due to his malformed mouth, and a –3 penalty to sight, smell, and hearing based rolls. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 Perdo requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Fist of Crippling''
''PeCo 20 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell inflicts a Heavy Wound on the target. (Base 15, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Kiss of Aging''
''PeCo 20 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The target instantly ages five years. If the target is age 35 or older for any of these accelerated years, immediately make an aging roll for each such year as normal.''
''(Base 15, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Paralysis of The Gift''
''PeVi 20 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual The target feels The Gift becoming dull and moribund. Reduce all the Casting Totals of the target by 10. (Base effect, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''

==Gathering Connections==

''In order to wage an effective Wizard’s War, the caster must have an Arcane Connection to his quarry. This is true even if the caster is not using an Intangible Tunnel-style effect to target his quarry, as most effects that are worth using in Wizard’s War must either Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the target, or pass through a hostile Aegis of the Hearth. The effects listed here are various strategies that can be used to gather an Arcane Connection. Some Tribunals may consider the use of these techniques to be scrying or deprivation of magical power. This may make a magus hesitant to use some of the more dramatic and obvious of these effects until after Wizard’s War has been declared.''

==Blood==

''This suite of spells — Breath of the Glassworker, Crystal Rain, Division According to Blood, Eyes of the Hawk, and Licking the Blood — are intended to make the''
''target bleed by catching them within a hail of glass and then collecting the spilt blood in a glass phial for use as an Arcane Connection. An alternative strategy is to create, with the ritual The Thirsty Dagger, a dagger with a special reservoir in its hilt to store the blood. The dagger is then thrown at the victim (or he is stabbed with the dagger), which is then returned to the hand of the magus with the spell The Prodigal Returns. The blood stored in the hilt can then be used as an Arcane Connection. Of course, an ordinary sword or thrown weapon can be used injure the victim, and either the bloodied weapon or the spilt blood can be gathered by the caster. Recovering blood from weapons is a good way to gather Arcane Connections (which can then be fixed) a long time prior to any declaration of Wizard’s War. A patient magus may find many opportunities to gather Arcane Connections without revealing himself to his targets. Many magi surreptitiously collect blood from their apprentices, just in case their apprentices turn against them in the future. Likewise, many Mystery Cults collect blood from members — indeed, many Mystery initiations involve blood — in case a member betrays the cult at a later date.''
''Eyes of the Hawk''
''MuCo(An) 4 R: Personal, D:Sun, T:Individual The caster gains the eyes of a hawk, which allows him to clearly see for vast distances. (Base 2, +2 Sun, free requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (8), Two Seasons (6), Three Seasons (6), Four Seasons (5).''
''Licking the Blade''
''ReCo 40 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Individual''
''When casting this spell, the caster holds a glass phial in one hand. When cast, the spell instantly transports a quantity of spilled blood that the caster can see and is within one league (3 miles) into the phial. The blood can be used as a +3 Arcane Connection to the character(s) from which it came. The Arcane Connection lasts for years (see ArM5, page 84). If the blood comes from a mixture of individuals, it must be sorted using a spell such as Division According to Blood before it can be used as an Arcane Connection. The exception is that the unsorted blood can be used as an Arcane Connection for effects that use a Group target to affect the entire group from which the blood came.''
''This spell works because once the blood of a character has been spilled, it does not inherit the character’s Magic Resistance. Versions of this spell that instantly transport the blood a shorter (or longer) distance can obviously be invented. The blood might be spilled by a spell effect such as Crystal Rain, or it might be spilled via mundane means such as a sword blow or a punch in the face. The caster may require some sort of enhancement to his senses (such as Eyes of the Hawk) to target the spilled blood at the extremes of the range of this spell. (Base 25, +3 Sight) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (80), Two Seasons (60), Three Seasons (54), Four Seasons (50).''

[|

==Story Seed: Foot-Soldiers of the Master==

''If the magi of a saga invent the Intangible Assassin effects, then many good stories can be told about the adventures of the trusted grogs and companions who are sent out to recover Arcane Connections for their masters:''
''“We always get the good jobs”''
''A team of grogs are sent to sneak into the middle of an enemy covenant to recover Arcane Connections to the enemy magi. Can the grogs avoid the mundane and magical protections of the covenant?''
''The Sleeper Awakes''
''A grog character has his memory altered and is then put into a situation whereby an enemy covenant recruits him. Sometime later, the grog regains his memory. Having remembered it, he can now begin to complete his mission: to collect some Arcane Connections and escape back to his original covenant. A good way for this story to begin is with the grog slowly regaining his original memories while he is working inside the enemy covenant.''
''The Wandering Scribe''
''A magus and his grog scribe spend a season in Durenmar copying spell texts. The scribe is nominally making copies of books for his magus, but has instead been secretly tasked with sneaking around Durenmar, collecting Arcane Connections to the other magi visiting the covenant.''
''The Hunters in the Woods''
''A band of grogs is sent to lurk in the forests near an enemy covenant. Their task is to trail magi approaching and leaving the covenant, and attempt to recover Arcane Connections from their campsites and trails.''
''Seduction''
''The grogs are sent to a town near the enemy covenant. Their mission is to befriend or seduce the enemy grogs when they visit the town.  The plan is to then take advantage of this friendship to recover Arcane Connections to the enemy magi.''

|]
''Division According to Blood''
''Re(In)Co 25 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part To cast this spell, the caster holds a glass phial in each hand. One phial contains blood which may come from a mixture of sources. The other phial is empty. Upon casting the spell, all the blood from one individual only (in the first phial) is instantly transported into the second phial. By repeatedly casting this spell (and having a sufficient quantity of empty phials available), the caster may separate out the blood from a number of individuals. If the first phial contains only blood from one individual, then all of it will instantly transport into the second phial. The Intellego requisite is required to distinguish between the different sorts of blood in the phial. The target is Part because only a fraction of the blood (that belonging to one individual) is instantly transported into the second phial. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +1 requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (50), Two Seasons (38), Three Seasons (34), Four Seasons (32).''
''Breath of the Glassworker''
''CrTe 15 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual The caster of this spell makes an “O” shape with his thumb and index finger, into which he then blows. This forms and inflates a small glass phial. The phial only lasts for a day, but this is often long enough to hold a sample of some substance until it is either used or taken to the magi’s laboratory and repackaged. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 elaborate shape) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''
''The Shattered Goblet''
''CrTe 20 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group, Ritual At the conclusion of this ritual, the caster throws a glass goblet onto the ground which splits into thousands of sharp glass shards, with many times the''
''volume of the original goblet (about 1,000 cubic paces). If spread about on the ground, the glass shards cause +5 damage to anyone who walks over the ground, but this damage can be totally avoided by wearing hard-soled boots or shoes. The glass can cover an area about 60 paces across in glass 1 foot deep. The glass shards are intended to be used with the Crystal Rain spell. The glass shards can be reduced in size to be more easily carried, using the Miniaturist of Venice spell. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +2 Size) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''The Thirsty Dagger''
''CrTe 20 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual This ritual creates a metal dagger. The blade contains cleverly designed gutters that feed into a reservoir in the hilt. This means that if anyone is injured by the dagger (takes a Wound), then a sample of their blood is collected in the dagger’s hilt. A version of this ritual could be created with as a spell with a duration (such as Sun) for use in emergency circumstances. However, the dagger created with the ritual is not magical, so it does not need to Penetrate Magic Resistance to harm a target (which a spell with a non-Momentary duration would need to do). The dagger can be used as either a thrown or melee weapon. It is less useful in Defense than a normal dagger, and less aerodynamic than a throwing knife. In both cases, this is because The Thirsty Dagger is oddly weighted due to the blood reservoir. The dagger’s weapon characteristics are:''
''Ability: Brawl, Init: +0, Atk: +2, Dfn: –1, Dam: +3, Str: –1, Load: 0 Ability: Thrown, Init: –1, Atk: 0, Dfn: –1, Dam: +2, Str: –1, Load: 0''

[|

==Story Seed: School of Assassins==

''What if a group of magi cooperate to develop this project?''
''School Master''
''House Flambeau contains a number of schools dedicated to using magic in combat. However, none of the schools concentrate on the use of Intangible Tunnel-style effects. So, the characters are approached by senior magi of House Flambeau who invite them to join House Flambeau as the masters of a new fighting school. Do the characters accept? How do the characters go about teaching these techniques without compromising their own safety from the attacks of ambitious students? What do the characters’ current House(s) and political allies think?''
''An Army of Wizards''
''A cadre of characters (perhaps within House Tytalus or House Tremere) develop the Intangible Assassin effects. This cadre and their powers could be a powerful weapon in the event of a new war within the Order of Hermes.''
''War of the Assassins''
''The magi cooperate together to develop these Intangible Tunnel-style effects, but then, in a fit of paranoia, start hunting each other down. This could be a good idea for a very short player versus player saga that only lasts for the duration of the month of bitter Wizard’s Wars.''

|]
''(Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 elaborate design) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (40), Two Seasons (30), Three Seasons (27), Four Seasons (25).''
''Miniaturist of Venice''
''MuTe 50 Pen: 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group This spell reduces 100 cubic paces of glass into a small volume, about 1 cubic foot. The shrunken glass can be more easily transported. When the spell ends, the glass bursts back into full size. Anybody within 9 paces of the shrunken glass takes +10 damage from flying shards of glass. Bursting back in this manner breaks any complex glass objects. The spell is based on the Muto Terram guideline that increases the volume of an object by 8, but instead is used to decreases its volume by a factor of 8. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +1 Size, +1 affect glass, +3 increased shrinking effect) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (100), Two Seasons (75), Three Seasons (67), Four Seasons (63).''
''Crystal Rain''
''ReTe 30 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Group This spell causes a vast cloud of sharp shards of glass fly to a point in the sky, and then fall to the earth. From a distance, as the light refracts through the plunging glass, it looks like a curious sort of localized rain. The area covered by the falling glass is about 10 paces across, and anyone in (or passing through) the area takes +10 damage. If a wound is caused, blood from the victim falls onto the earth. This is an Aimed spell that consequently bypasses Magic Resistance, and there is a +12 bonus to the Aiming roll to hit due to the number of glass shards''
''(see ArM5, page 86). This Aiming bonus is for a cloud of shards that contains 100 cubic paces of glass. If the cloud of shards contains only 10 cubic paces of glass, the Aiming bonus is reduced to only +6. Remember to count Defense bonuses because of shields. This spell requires that the caster has large collection of sharp glass shards, which need to be mundane in order to bypass Magic Resistance in this way. The shards could be created using a momentary Creo Terram ritual (such as The Shattered Goblet), or they could be acquired from a mundane craftsman, although this is probably more expensive and inconvenient for most magi. As long as the fallen glass shards remain within Sight range of the caster, the same shards can be used to cast the effect again in a subsequent round. (Base 3, +3 Sight, +2 Group, +1 Size, +1 affect glass)''
''Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''
''Glass Broom''
''ReTe 30 R: Sight, D: Concentration, T: Group This spell moves a lot of glass objects around. The spell can be used to move around glass created by The Shattered Goblet. It can also be used to move other glass around. If a Finesse Roll against an Ease Factor of 9 is failed, then the glass is broken during transit (which is not a problem if the glass is just glass shards). (Base 3, +3 Sight, +1 Concentration, +2 Group, +1 affect glass) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (60), Two Seasons (45), Three Seasons (40), Four Seasons (38).''
''The Prodigal Returns''
''ReTe 25 R: Sight, D: Concentration, T: Individual This spell causes a metal weapon (such as a sword or dagger) to fly through the air, safely returning to the outstretched hand of the caster. (Base 3, +3 Sight, +1 Concentration +2 affect metal) Required Lab Total to invent spell:''
''One Season (50), Two Seasons (38), Three Seasons (34), Four Seasons (32).''

==Books and Laboratory Texts==

''A book or Lab Text is an Arcane Connection (worth a Penetration Bonus of +2) to the scribe who wrote it. The Arcane''
''Connection only lasts for weeks after it is written (see ArM5, page 84), so most magi keep their texts for a month or so before lending it or submitting it to a library, such that at Durenmar. Alternatively, they can destroy the Arcane Connection with a Perdo Vim spell. Nonetheless, acquiring a newly written book or Lab Text, or even one that is still being written, is a good strategy to gathering an Arcane Connection to a character. One strategy is to gather a sample of the quarry’s writing (by finding a Lab Text or book at Durenmar or a similar library). The magus can then use a spell, such as Pages of the Unfinished Story, to gather more recently written material from the covenant of the author. This recently-written material can then be used as an Arcane Connection.''
''Pages of the Unfinished Story''
''Re(In)An 45 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Structure This spell requires a piece of parchment written on by a character, such as a page of Lab Text or part of a tractatus. The caster holds the piece of parchment against the wall of a structure (such as a tower), and all pages of parchment written on by the same author, in the last week, within the tower instantly transport into the caster’s hand. Most authors would immediately notice that their work has been stolen when they return to their writing table. If more than two weeks’ writing is stolen through successive castings of this spell, any Laboratory work on which the author is working will be interrupted. This spell uses the Rego Corpus guideline to instantly transport a body, by analogy, to transport animal products. Note that who wrote the text on a piece of parchment is a part of the history and origins of an animal product (the parchment), which can be detected with an Intellego Animal effect. This is why an Intellego requisite is required. This spell only gathers material writ''

[|

==Story Seed: House of the Assassin==

''It becomes well known within the Order that the character has considerable expertise in prosecuting Wizard’s War. Some stories that might arise from this include:''
''Assassin for Hire''
''The character is approached by another magus who will pay him handsomely to fight Wizard’s War on his behalf. Accepting this commission could embroil the character in the political intrigues of the Tribunal.''
''Officer of the Tribunal''
''The character is charged by the Tribunal with eliminating magi who have been Marched, and the character may be invited to join the ranks of the Quaesitors as a recognition of his role. There is considerable potential power in this role, as by choosing how enthusiastically he prosecutes a March, the magus can allow a Marched magus time to flee. The assassin magus could even conspire with a Marched magus to fake the death of the Hermetic outlaw. Of course, the assassin magus will need to be very careful and very confident, as abusing the trust of the Tribunal in this way is itself a Marchable offense. However, the magus’ political alliances, Mystery Cult allegiances, or whatever the Marched magi pay could make the risk worthwhile.''
''King-maker''
''The character has a nephew (or other relative) who is a minor noble. The character uses mundane spies to gather Arcane Connections and Intangible Tunnel-style effects to wage war on the other nobles within the Tribunal, and slowly his relative rises to become a king (or a duke or earl). Although this is clearly interference with the mundane, it could be quite difficult for other magi to detect as the work of a fellow magus — investigating magi would have to actually have an interest in the deaths of nobles, and would need to be present in the noble courts to detect the spell traces of the Intangible Tunnel. The unlucky noble families would have almost no way to connect the deaths in the courts to the Order of Hermes. So, although this is a risky endeavor, a very careful magus may be able to avoid the censure of the Tribunal. A similar story could be told about a magus arranging for a relative to rise in the ranks of churchmen, perhaps even becoming pope.''
''Scapegoat''
''The character becomes so well known for his proficiency at assassination that other magi invent Shroud Magic effects that make their own Intangible Tunnel effects appear as if cast by the magus assassin. He must defend himself in Tribunal against numerous accusations of murder. Note that the presence of Shroud Magic can be detected.''

|]
''ten by the same character who wrote the sample. Thus, if the sample piece was in fact written by a scribe, instead of by the expected magus, then this spell will collect work written by the scribe. An equivalent Herbam spell could be used to gather text written on paper or papyrus, but parchment (which is made from animal hide) is the most common form of writing surface used in the Order of Hermes. (Base 20, +1 Touch, +3 Structure, +1 Intellego Requisite) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (90), Two Seasons (68), Three Seasons (60), Four Seasons (57).''

==Blood Relative==

''Being a blood relative of a person gains the caster a +1 Sympathetic Connection. The spell Blood of My Enemy can be used to temporarily create such a blood connection. Of course, this is risky, as being a blood relative can be used as a Sympathetic Connection for spells cast in either direction.''
''Blood of My Enemy''
''MuCo 10 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Part The caster of this spell eats a small piece of bread dipped in the blood of another character, although any Arcane Connection to the other character will work. The spell changes the blood of the character so that he becomes a blood relative of the character from whom the consumed blood came. This effect only lasts for the duration of this spell. This does not stop the character from also being a blood relative to his natural relations. Being a blood relative is worth a +1 Sympathetic Connection (ArM5, page 84). This spell is possible because, although being a blood relative is a part of a character’s essential nature, Muto spells can violate a character’s essential nature (turn a man into a wolf, for example); the''
''character’s true essential nature merely returns when the Muto spell ends. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 Part) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''

==Certamen==

''Certamen can be used to gain an Arcane Connection in two ways. First, a character can challenge another character for some item that can be used as an Arcane Connection. Examples of this could include:''
''• A claim that the book a character is''
''writing is plagiarized. Certamen is fought for possession of the manuscript. The manuscript is a short-lived Arcane Connection to the writer. • A claim that a character’s favored eating knife is stolen. Certamen is fought for possession of the knife, which is an Arcane Connection to the true owner.''
''Of course, such Certamen challenges are likely to be considered vexatious by the Tribunal. However, Tribunals only occur once every seven years, by which time the Wizard’s War may well have been fought. In this case, paying a small vis fine to the estate of the victim to compensate for injudicious use of Certamen is not too troubling — assuming the case is ever brought to the Tribunal at all. The other, less controversial use of Certamen to gain an Arcane Connection is the “free” spell a victor may cast on the unconscious loser, which bypasses the loser’s Parma Magica. Of course, for this to be successful the character must win the Certamen match, without his opponent withdrawing prior to total defeat. In addition, as the Technique and Form of the “free” spell must match those with which the Certamen match was fought, the Certamen match must be fought using a suitable Technique and Form combination to allow the harvesting of an Arcane Connection. A possible example is the Wizard’s Breath Stolen.''
''Wizard’s Breath Stolen''
''ReAu 4 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell traps the breath of a character and seals it into a glass phial held by the caster. The target’s breath is a shortlived Arcane Connection to him (lasts hours; ArM5 page 84), but if the caster can quickly get to a Laboratory, he can fix the Arcane Connection. This spell must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the target to be effective. (Base 3, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (8), Two Seasons (6), Three Seasons (6), Four Seasons (5).''

==Horoscopes==

''The horoscope for a target (either his horoscope for today or his nativity horoscope) can be used as a Sympathetic Connection to increase the Penetration multiplier bonus of an Arcane Connection. The following spells can be used to help prepare horoscopes. Some of these spells require an Arcane Connection to the target, which is required to make use of a Sympathetic Connection anyway. It may seem that these spells are pointless, but spells such as Convergence of Place and Convergence of Birth can be used to gather Sympathetic Connections that can then be used to boost the Penetration of higher-magnitude spells to finally attack a victim.''
''Convergence of Birth''
''InCo 10 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell, which can use an astrolabe, determines the birth place and time of the target. This is sufficient information to calculate the nativity horoscope of the target, for a +2 Sympathetic Connection; Int + Artes Liberales (astronomy) roll against an Ease Factor of 9 (see ArM5, page 84). Calculating the horoscope itself takes a day.''
''This spell must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the target to be effective. This spell is intended to be cast through an Intangible Tunnel. (Base 5, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Convergence of Place''
''InCo 4 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell, which can use an astrolabe, determines the current celestial location of the target. This is sufficient information to calculate a daily horoscope for the target, for a +1 Sympathetic Connection;''
''Int + Artes Liberales (astronomy) roll against an Ease Factor of 9 (see ArM5, page 84). Calculating the horoscope itself takes an hour. This spell must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the target to be effective. This spell is intended to be cast through an Intangible Tunnel. (Base 3, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (8), Two Seasons (6), Four Seasons (5).''
''Simulacrum of the Spheres''
''This invested item is a rock crystal, set in a complex mesh of metal wheels that''
''are inscribed with astronomical signs. The device senses the motions of the planets and other celestial bodies, and moves the wheels to indicate the state of the heavens. The device can be used as an astrolabe, and it is so accurate it gives a +3 bonus to the calculation of horoscopes (ArM5, page 84) and astrological inceptions (Art and Academe, page 73). In order to use the astrolabe, a character must have an Artes Liberales of at least 1. The invested device (the rock crystal) is a tiny semi-precious gem and so requires 12 pawns of vis to prepare for enchantment. This requires a Magic Theory Score of 6 and one season of work. The two effects, Sense the Heavens and Move the Wheels, require 3 and 4 pawns of vis to invest respectively.''
''Sense the Heavens InIm 24 0 Pen, constant effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Hearing This effect gives the device the sense to listen to the barely-perceptible sounds of the celestial bodies in motion (see Art and Academe, page 16). (Base 3, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing; +4 constant effect) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (48), Two Seasons (36), Three Seasons (32), Four Seasons (30).''
''Move the Wheels ReTe 37 0 Pen, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group This effect is triggered by the Sense the Heavens effect, and constantly moves the wheels in a way that represents the movement of the celestial bodies. This allows a character with an Artes Liberales Score of at least 1 to read the astrolabe. (Base 3, +1 Touch +2 Sun, +2 Group +2 affect metal; +4 constant effect +3 linked trigger) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (74), Two Seasons (56), Three Seasons (50), Four Seasons (47).''

[|

==Story Seed: Vandals in the Library==

''The librarians at Durenmar have spells that can test for the completeness of texts (see Covenants, page 100). A routine audit reveals that several books are''
''apparently missing content. The player characters may either be responsible for this vandalism, or called upon to help find the vandals.''

|]

==Names==

''The birth or nickname of a character can be used as a +1 Sympathetic Connection. The secret ritual name of a character can also be used as a +1 Sympathetic Connection. It is relatively easy to discover the nickname of a character, but a Christian magus is often careful to ensure that his nickname is his baptismal name. This is because a baptismal name cannot be used as a Sympathetic Connection. A spell like Posing the Silent Question (see ArM5, page 149) might be used to lift the birth or secret ritual name of a character from either his own mind or the mind of others who know him well.''

==Signature==

''A character’s signature can be used as a +1 Sympathetic Connection. It is relatively easy to gain the signature of most magi, as many magi sign the Laboratory Texts that they deposit at the various libraries of the Order of Hermes (such as that at Durenmar). This is because most magi deposit Lab Texts at such repositories to enhance their personal reputation as a worthy magus, and an anonymous text does not enhance reputation. A spell such as Dance of the Spidery Ink can be used lift a signature from a text. This could allow a character to steal a signature from Durenmar without damaging the original Lab Text.''
''Dance of the Spidery Ink''
''Re(Mu)He 15 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part This effect causes a small quantity of text (up to a page) to form into a spidery creature and walk from one piece of paper or vellum to another. The two pieces of paper or vellum are held in either hand of the caster. Casting the spell transfers the text to the second piece of paper or vellum. Note that this spell does not attempt to understand the moving text in any way.''
''In order to preserve the sense of the text, the caster must make a Dex + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 9 (if he understands the text) or 12 (if he does not understand the text). For this spell to work, the ink must be made of a plant product (which is common). A similar spell designed with an Animal, Corpus, or Terram Form will be needed if the ink is an animal, human, or mineral product. Similar spells with longer durations and a Group target could be invented to transfer the entire text from a large work. For a Lab Text, for every magnitude of effect (level divided by 5), it takes one hour to move the text. For a summa or tractatus, it takes one hour to move the text per point of Source Quality. Note that this only moves the text from one place to another; it does not create a copy of the text. The Muto requisite is required to make the ink stick to the new piece of parchment. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Part, free requisite) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (30), Two Seasons (23), Three Seasons (20), Four Seasons (19).''

==Symbolic Representation==

''A symbolic representation of a target can be used as a +2 Sympathetic Connection.''
''Mirror of the Frozen Scene''
''CrIm 8 Pen: 0, 24 uses per day R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual''
''This enchanted item is a mirror. When the device is activated, the image reflected on the mirror surface is frozen until the effect duration ends. This frozen image can be used as symbolic representation of anyone or anything depicted for a +2 Sympathetic Connection. As the reflected image of a character is a species, this spell does not need to Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the depicted characters. Note that strictly the mirror actually creates an image that depicts what it “saw,” rather than truly freezing an image. (Base 1, +2 Sun; +5 24 uses) Required Lab Total to invest effect: One Season (16), Two Seasons (12), Three Seasons (11), Four Seasons (10).''

==Increasing the Casting Total==

''Gathering more powerful Arcane Connections and a suite of Sympathetic Connections is one method of increasing the Penetration Total. Another method is to increase the Casting Total directly.''

==Vis==

''Spending vis on spell casting is a good method of increasing the Casting Score for a single spell casting (see ArM5, page 82). A moderately experienced magus with a lot of vis to spend could easily get a Casting Score bonus of 20 to 40, depending on his Art Scores. On the other hand, if the caster wants''
''to cast a group of spells at high Penetration (an Intangible Tunnel-style effect, and then several damaging effects through the tunnel), then using vis is unlikely to be a sensible course of action, as each spell will require vis.''

==A War Party of Magi==

''A group of magi acting together can use Wizard’s Communion (see ArM5, page 160) to cast high magnitude Intangible Tunnel-style effects with high Penetrations. The Wizard’s Communion can also be used to cast effects through the tunnel. For example, 4 magi who each know Wizard’s Communion of at least level 10 work together to cast a level 20 Intangible Tunnel-style effect. Only one of the magi needs to actually know the Intangible Tunnel-style effect. When that magus casts the Intangible Tunnel-style effect the Penetration is calculated as if the effect was only level 5. Using Wizard’s Communion combined with Intangible Tunnel-style effects is a good strategy for members of the Tribunal to take when trying to eliminate a magus who has been Marched. Groups of magi can also work together in this way to prosecute a Wizard’s War, although to be strictly legal, all the magi involved in the Wizard’s Communion must declare Wizard’s War on the victim.''

==The Problem of the Aegis of the Hearth==

''The Aegis of the Hearth ritual that surrounds most covenants can be used by a magus for shelter during Wizard’s War. A young magus (with a low Parma Magica score) gains the most benefit from cowering in this way within an Aegis cast by his more competent sodales. The Aegis of the Hearth is often of less importance in Wizard’s War between experienced magi. This is because their Parma Magica scores may provide much more effective protection''
''than the Aegis. Nonetheless, the following spells could be invented for interacting with an Aegis. One high-risk strategy a character can use is to secretly lower an enemy’s Aegis of the Hearth via the Guttering of the Home-Fires effect, and use the opportunity to cast spells within the enemy’s covenant to recover Arcane Connections to the quarry of the Wizard’s War. Once the Aegis is raised again, the character can use the harvested Arcane Connections to open high penetration, low magnitude, Intangible Tunnel-style effects to his Wizard’s War target. Another strategy is to completely destroy an Aegis of the Hearth via the Removing the Hearth’s Keystone effect. The magus can thus attack his target before the Aegis is recast by the covenant inhabitants. A clever magus could even contrive to secretly participate in the recasting of the Aegis, perhaps by magically disguising himself as another magus. Under most circumstances, destroying an Aegis of the Hearth is likely to be considered deprivation of magical power by a Tribunal. However, by declaring Wizard’s War against an entire covenant, the aggressor magus is protected against such concerns. Of course, fighting Wizard’s War simultaneously against several foes is its own problem. Destroying the Aegis of the Hearth is also quite difficult, and is probably best achieved by several magi acting together (using Wizard’s Communion). Obviously, to be strictly legal, all the participants in the Wizard’s Communion need to have declared Wizard’s War on the magi affected by the dispelling of the Aegis.''
''Absent Mind of the Scholar''
''MuMe 10 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual This spell changes the target’s memory so that he believes that Wizard’s War was declared on him one month prior to when it actually was. The intent is that this spell is cast via''
''an Intangible Tunnel-style effect while the Wizard’s War is legitimately in progress, and the target (believing that the Wizard’s War occurred during the previous month) stops taking protective measures, and leaves the sanctuary of the Aegis of the Hearth. Obviously, this strategy will fail if the target is convinced by another character that their memory is in error. However, it might be very difficult to convince a magus that their memory is incorrect, and to be effective this strategy only requires the magus to make a single absent-minded mistake, such as briefly leaving the Aegis of the Hearth. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun) Required Lab Total to invent spell: One Season (20), Two Seasons (15), Three Seasons (14), Four Seasons (13).''
''Guttering of the Home-Fires''
''ReVi Gen R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual This spell temporarily suppresses an Aegis of the Hearth effect. The Aegis of the Hearth effect must be less than half the level of this spell + 3 magnitudes. The known Lab Texts of this spell incorporate a side effect: while the Aegis of the Hearth is lowered, the temperature within the affected boundary is lowered slightly, which sensitive characters might notice. This spell must penetrate the Aegis of the Hearth effect, of course. Note that if the Aegis of the Hearth is of a high level, then this spell may need to be a ritual. (Base effect, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level (see insert earlier).''
''Removing the Hearth’s Keystone''
''PeVi Gen R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The caster dispels an Aegis of the Hearth effect. There is no other evidence that the Aegis is absent, but alert magi crossing''
''the supposed boundary of the Aegis may notice that they do not feel the characteristic tingle which indicates the presence of an Aegis. The Aegis of the Hearth effect must be less than the level of the Removing the Key''
''stone spell + 3 magnitudes + stress die. This spell must penetrate the Aegis of the Hearth effect, of course. Note that if the Aegis of the Hearth is of a high level, then this spell may need to be a ritual.''
''(Base effect, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total to invent spell: depends upon level (see insert earlier).''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
