''Wizards have long sought to cheat death, to avoid the reaper’s blade through cunning art and powerful invocations. Hermetic magi have only a few options to successfully become immortal, options that are restricted to initiates of a handful of Hermetic Mystery Cults. Frustration awaits the magus who desires immortality but is excluded from these secret and esoteric rites. Human life cannot be created or indefinitely retained by Hermetic magi. But the components of life, the shell of the body and the animation of the spirit, can be manipulated. Several Hermetic spells can already accomplish these ends; spirits can be summoned, bound, and coerced into compliance, and a human body can be created, preserved, and controlled. Successful castings of these necromantic spells are only limited by their duration, but even this obstacle can be overcome. A spell will naturally cease, but an enchant''
''ed item can maintain a similar spell-like effect forever. Combining necromantic spells with enchanted devices, a magus can create a human corpse and unite a ghostly apparition with the corpse to form a semblance of human life. Called a living corpse, such a creature is beyond the limitations of death, and can serve the magus for eternity. With careful preparation and painstakingly enchanted magic items, a necromancer can create a personal living corpse and achieve eternal existence.''

==Creating a Living Corpse==

''To create a living corpse, the magus needs to bind a ghost to an ani''
''mated corpse. The magus must create a spell that animates a corpse, a spell that summons a specific spirit, a spell that anchors the spirit to the corpse, and a spell that allows the spirit to control the corpse. The magus must decide how he will make these spell effects permanent, and a constructed enchanted item is the most obvious. A magus who knows the Minor Hermetic Virtue: Spell Binding could summon other spirits to maintain the spells, creating a small group of inanimate objects to sustain the spells and linked spirits (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 27). While common, and reportedly widespread throughout the Order of Hermes, not every magus knows how to bind spells. But every magus does know how to enchant magic items, which means that a living corpse is attainable to all who seek to be one.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Fleshy Vessel==

''Hermetic magi know that ghosts can be bound to places, things, events, and passions, each somehow providing a supernatural tether connected to the spirit. The common magic of spell binding (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 27), requires that the magus use an “inanimate physical” container as a vessel to imprison the ghost, but this is an anchor for a second spell as well as the spirit, whose bound essence empowers the spell indefinitely. The Rego Mentem spell Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel is more relaxed concerning the actual container housing the bound''
''ghost. The container does not have to be a hollow vessel: a book, rock, or corpse all count as containers. Like spell binding, however, if this container is broken, the spirit is released. A magus creating a living corpse therefore selects a specific part within the corpse to house the ghost. If he chooses the entire corpse, any scratch, wound, or puncture counts as breaking the vessel. A clever magus binds the ghost to the corpse’s liver, stomach, heart, or skull. This ensures that the corpse can sustain considerable''
''damage without releasing the ghost, as long as the specified container remains whole. If the magus chooses a body part as the vessel, that part needs to be available for the spirit-binding, either by sight or by touch, depending on the Range of the spell or spell-like effect. It is impossible to enchant a spleen to bind a ghost, if the spleen remains hidden in the body. This can be difficult if the necromancer decides he wants to self-transform into a living corpse.''

|}

==A Living Corpse Using Spells==

''A living corpse combines the physicality of an animated corpse with the mental aspects of an attached spirit, magically joining that which death has pulled apart. A ghost is bound to a magically animated corpse, then given control of the spell that animates the corpse, letting it control the body. The simplest example is a living corpse created by casting spells; the most complicated example is a personal living corpse, one that a magus designs for himself using enchanted items that activate upon his death. Both creation processes use variations of three spells, in addition to others specific to the creation process. Those three spells are as follows:''
''Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel''
''ReMe 25 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind This spell forces a ghost into a container of some type. The spirit remains bound within the vessel for the duration''
''of the spell. While the spirit cannot affect its prison with magic to force its release, its powers are not otherwise limited.''
''(Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32)''
''Animate the Slumbering Corpse''
''ReCo(Me) 35 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind A variant of Awaken the Slumbering Corpse (ArM5, page 134), this spell allows a caster to control a corpse through mental, rather than verbal, commands. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Day, +1 Mentem requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (70), 2 seasons (53), 3 seasons (47), 4 seasons (44)''
''Passing the Reins of Corpus''
''MuVi Gen R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind Cast at the same time as another spell, this spell lets the caster pass control of the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Exempli Gratia: Bonding a Ghostly Warder to a Corpse==

''A magus wants to bind a weak ghost to a corpse. He has an arcane connection to a ghostly warder (ArM5, page 193) and has a fresh corpse. He first summons the ghost, using a variant of the ritual spell Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ArM5, page 152), with Duration Diameter instead of Duration Concentration. This Rego Mentem level 40 spell must penetrate the 10 Magic Resistance of the ghost. Once summoned, the magus casts the level 25 Rego Mentem spell Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel, which must also penetrate the ghost’s Magic Resistance. The magus forces the ghost into the corpse, which acts as the vessel. The magus then casts Animate the Slumber''
''ing Corpse (ReCo (Me) 30), and finally Passing the Reins of Corpus (MuVi 35). The magus has successfully created a living corpse that will stay active until sunset, when both Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel and Animate the Slumbering Corpse spells end (Duration: Sun). The living corpse has all the abilities and powers of both the ghostly warder and the corpse. It is not under any compulsion to follow the magus’ commands, although it can be compelled to obey through magic (Coerce the Spirits of the Night, for example). When the spells end at sunset, the corpse flops to the ground and the ghost is released.''

|}
''first spell to another person. The level of the affected spell must be less than the level +1 magnitude of Passing the Reins of (Form), and it only works on spells with Duration longer than Momentary. The spell does not change the target of the affected spell. As with other Muto Vim spells, the caster must succeed at an Intelligence + Concentration roll against an Ease Factor of 9 (ArM5, page 159). (Base effect, +1 Touch) Required Lab Total: Dependent upon level of spell''

==A Living Corpse Using Magical Enchantments==

''The longest a living corpse can remain using Hermetic spells is one year, the maximum duration of Hermetic formulaic spells. This serves for some purposes, but if a magus wants to create a longer-lasting living corpse, he must create enchanted items that can maintain their spell-like effects indefinitely. He still needs to personally cast the spell that summons the ghost, because Incantation of Summoning the Dead is a ritual spell, and ritual spells cannot be instilled into enchanted items. Just like any enchanted item, the magus must decide the physical shape and material of the enchanted item and the type''
''of enchanted item to construct: invested device, lesser enchantment, charged item, or talisman. Lesser enchantments and charged items work well on others, and are a good choice if the magus wants to create living corpses as henchmen and staff members. A lesser enchantment necessitates high Lab Totals in the required Technique and Form combinations. Charged items don’t cost vis and allow for lower Lab Totals, but have a limited number of uses before the magic is exhausted. Lesser enchantments and charged items must be created in a single season, and both types of enchanted items can only have a single power. A Muto Vim spell-like effect can be instilled in an enchanted item, but to be useful, the effect must be instilled in the same enchanted item with the other effect it is intended to affect. Invested devices can be created over several seasons and can hold multiple enchantments, including linking trigger enchantments that can activate other powers. This combination of linking triggers activating other spell-like powers is especially important if the magus wants to become a living corpse without the aid of an assistant (see Personal Living Corpse, later). While he could rely on someone else to activate the magic, using an assistant or collaborator to activate an enchanted item means trusting that person''
''to complete the task. If the assistant fails, there is little that the magus can do about it, since he will be dead at the crucial time of activation. A talisman is a good choice for the necromancer who is determined to become a living corpse, since it can hold many more powers than an invested device, and its total allotment of powers is not limited by its shape or form.''
''Lesser Enchantments: The Walking Centurion''
''Of the four necessary spells to create a living corpse, lesser enchantments can be used for two: the ghost-binding spell and the corpse-animating spell. A spell to summon a ghost cannot be instilled in a lesser enchantment — or any enchanted device — because it is a ritual spell. A Muto Vim spell cannot be instilled in a lesser enchantment because it must be instilled with the power it is working with, and only one power can be put into a lesser enchantment. Two examples of lesser enchantments are listed later. After constructing the two lesser enchantments, the magus is ready to make a living corpse. He first provides a fresh corpse for the ghost’s attachment. He places the Denarius to Hold the Recalled Centurion on the floor and the Greave of Reveille''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds==

''An Innocent Introduction''
''During some routine task, a grog finds a young boy hiding on the covenant’s grounds. Frightened and dirty, the boy clutches a large tome. He says that he stole it from his master, who was using it to cast unholy spells and incantations on him. The boy is taken to the magus, who ascertains that the boy is an apprentice and holds a collection of Hermetic Lab Texts. The spells are not infernal, but necromantic. Legally, the magus should return the text and apprentice to the owner. This story seed could serve as a simple in-game introduction''
''to the manufacture of a living corpse, or could set up a rivalry between the finder and the owner. An insidious complication would be if the book states that the owner plans to slay the apprentice to see if the spell for summoning a ghost works. While not an infraction of the Hermetic Code, it could raise moral objections in a compassionate reader.''
''Interview with Balento''
''A recently acquired magic item that casts Ignem spells bears the sigil of Balento, a famous Verditius magus''
''who made many such devices during the Schism War. Magical investigation shows that the item isn’t that old, constructed just five years ago. Is it possible that Balento is still alive, working away somewhere and still making items of fiery destruction? The annals of the war state that Balento was almost 200 years old during the conflagration. If he is still making magic items, he must be more than 400 years old, an unheardof feat in the Order of Hermes. Curious characters might attempt to locate Balento, perhaps by following his selling agent, and discover that the magus is a living corpse.''

|}
''on the corpse. He might encircle the area with a Ring of Warding Against Spirits to make sure the summoned ghost does not immediately flee.''
''After summoning the ghost using the regular Hermetic spell, Incantation of Summoning the Dead, the necromancer speaks the command word for the Denarius,''
''which binds the ghost to the coin. He then speaks the command word for the Greave and at the same time casts the spell Passing the Reins of Corpus. Because he''

==Muto Vim Spells and Enchanted Devices==

''Muto Vim spells affect other spells, as described in the Muto Vim Guidelines (ArM5, page 159). Muto Vim spells can also affect spell-like effects instilled in enchanted devices, as long as certain conditions are met. Some of these conditions are explicitly stated in the Muto Vim Guidelines, and others have to be interpreted. To avoid confusion, they will be made explicit here. A Muto Vim effect can be put into a magical item, as long as it affects another power instilled in the item. If spell-like powers in a magical item can be manipulated by Muto Vim effects, then spell-like powers can also be manipulated by Muto Vim spells. The reverse is not true; a general purpose Muto Vim spell-like effect cannot be instilled in a magical item with the intent to affect spells that the wielder desires to target. Muto Vim spell-like effects can only affect other spell-like effects in the same magical item. If the magus casting the Muto Vim spell is the same person activating a magical item, then the standard rules for casting a Muto Vim spell apply (page 159). The caster must succeed with an Intelligence + Concentration roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If the magus is not the same person activating the magical item, the rules governing a Muto Vim spell cast on another magus’ spell apply. If an ally activates the magical item, and the magus and item-activator have worked out the timing issues before hand, the two are considered to be cooperating. The caster must succeed with an Intelligence + Concentration roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If the caster and the item-activator have not worked out the timing issues beforehand, then they are not cooperating. An enemy using a magical item falls into this category. In this case, the magus must fast cast the Muto Vim spell.''
''He must also beat the magical item’s Penetration with his Muto Vim spell’s Penetration. Because Muto Vim spells are Form specific, he must also correctly identify the Form of the device’s spelllike effect. Use the Determine Form of Magical Effect formula (ArM5, page 83) to determine whether the magus is successful. If the magus correctly identifies the Form, succeeds with a fast cast defense roll against the item-activator’s Initiative roll, and casts his spell with higher Penetration than the device’s Penetration, his Muto Vim spell affects the device’s spell-like effect. All other Muto Vim spell rules apply. The magical item must be Hermetic. The Muto Vim spell can have Range Touch if the magus is holding the magical item, but must have Range Voice if someone else is holding the magical item or he triggers it from a distance.''
''Amulets, Phylacteries, and Tefillin''
''Personally worn items are ideal for creating a living corpse because they can operate at Range Touch. This keeps the level of the effect manageable, and circumvents the problems involved with higher-magnitude ranges. Voice and Sight, for example, are difficult to use when the enchanted item has neither a mouth to speak, nor eyes to see. These difficulties can be overcome, but doing so adds magnitudes to the spell-like final effect of each enchantment. Managing the final level of effect reduces the cost of the vis necessary for each instilled power, maximizes the magus’ Lab Total to allow him to instill additional level of Penetration, and decreases the time required for enchanting each effect. While rings, necklaces, earrings, and other personal items will suffice, there''
''are certain worn items that are more appropriately thematic for necromantic purposes. These have a long history of use in pre-Hermetic magic traditions and have remained popular among magi with necromantic persuasions. An amulet is an engraved gem, coin, figurine, or pendant, popular since the time of Pliny’s Natural History. A hamsa, or “hand of Fatima,” is a popular palm-shaped amulet used in Arabic lands. A phylactery is a small container or box worn strapped to the arm, used in various Greek traditions of magic. A tefillah (plural: tefillin) is a small leather cube tied to the arm or forehead, used by Jewish holy men and magicians.''
''Pertinent Material and Size Tables''
''Derived from the regular Material & Size Tables chart (ArM5, page 97), the following table lists the final number of points for specific items useful for necromancers. This number is both the pawns of vis needed to open the item for enchantment, and the maximum number of pawns of vis that can be instilled in the device to empower spell-like effects. The material is the determining factor rather than the actual item; for example, an amulet made out of bone has the same points as a figurine made from bone.''
''Item Points Amulet, bone 3 Amulet, precious engraved gem 15 Amulet, semi-precious engraved gem 12 Coin pendant, gold 10 Coin pendant, silver 6 Hamsa, clay 3 Phylactery, iron 5 Phylactery, wood 2 Tefillah, leather 2''
''is activating the lesser enchantment at the same time that he is casting the Muto Vim spell, the player must make an Intelligence + Concentration roll (see insert). Because the necromancer is not holding the lesser enchantment, the Range of the Passing the Reins of Corpus spell must be Voice. Against its will, the ghost is bound to the silver coin and given the ability to command the animated corpse. The ghost is not immediately forced to follow the necromancer’s commands. A few hectic seconds may ensue before the necromancer can command the ghost, using Coerce the Spirits of the Night. Note that while the spell-like effects of the Denarius and the Greave can last indefinitely, due to the Constant Effect duration, the spell Passing the Reins of Corpus has a much shorter lifespan, depending on the Duration chosen when the necromancer invented the spell. The Denarius to Hold the Recalled Centurion assumes that the ghost is weaker than Magic Might 20. A more powerful ghost would require that the device have a higher Penetration. The Greave of Reveille does not need Penetration because the corpse it targets does not have Magic Resistance. The coin and leg armor are merely examples of items that could hold these instilled powers, ones that a magus with antiquarian Roman affectations might use.''
''A Denarius to Hold the Recalled Centurion ReMe 44 Pen: 20, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room An antique Roman silver coin, a denarius, is instilled with the spell Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel, which forces a ghost inside the silver coin. The silver coin is place on the floor of the room in which the ghost is present, and once the command word is spoken, the magic targets the room and the enclosed ghost. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger, +10 penetration.) Required Lab Total: 1 season (88), 2 seasons (66), 3 seasons (59), 4 seasons (55) This effect costs 5 pawns of vis.''
''The Greave of Reveille ReCo(Me) 34 Pen: 0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This iron leg armor is instilled with the spell Animate the Slumbering Corpse, which will animate the non-magical corpse wearing it. The command, “Stand at attention,” is issued as soon as the magic activates. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Mentem requisite; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Required Lab Total: 1 season (68), 2 seasons (51), 3 seasons (46), 4 seasons (43) This effect costs 4 pawns of vis.''
''Charged Items: The Necromancer’s Blades''
''A magus who wishes to use charged items to create a living corpse still needs to cast spells to start and complete the creation. Charged items can only perform half of the necessary spells, the ghost-binding spell and the corpse-animating spell. The benefits of using a charged item are two: a magus’ Lab Total only has to be greater than the calculated total spell-like effect level, not twice that amount, and a charged item does not require vis to instill the spell-like effect. Like lesser enchantments, charged items must be created in a single season. The following charged items are a pair of daggers made by a necromancer who desires a large following of weak living corpses. Having first summoned a ghost, the necromancer points the Blade of Lead at the ghost and imprisons it in a small clay pot that he has conveniently brought with him. He then opens the corpse’s torso and encloses the clay pot within the cadaver’s chest cavity. Finally, he animates the corpse with the Blade of Amber and at the same time casts Passing the Reins of Corpus to the''
''ghost. Because these charged items are ultimately disposable, the necromancer purposefully uses ghosts with a Magic Might of 10. For this example, the necromancer’s Passing the Reins of Corpus spell has a Duration Moon. Since the living corpse ends when this spell expires, there is no point in having either charged item’s spell-like effect last longer than a month.''
''The Blade of Lead ReMe 36 Pen: 12 R: Voice, D: Moon, T: Ind This lead dagger is instilled with the spell Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel, which forces a ghost inside a container selected by the wielder at the time of activation. Lead grants a +3 Lab Total bonus for binding ghosts. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +3 Moon; +6 penetration.) Required Lab Total: 1 season (36, plus 1 charge for every 5 points above 36)''
''The Blade of Amber ReCo(Me) 40 Pen: 0 R: Voice, D: Moon, T: Ind This dagger made of amber is instilled with the spell Animate the Slumbering Corpse. Because the corpse does not have Magic Resistance, the spell-like effect does not need Penetration. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +3 Moon, +1 Mentem requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (40, plus 1 charge for every 5 points above 40)''
''Invested Device: An Orb and a Crown''
''Because the magus may not always be on hand to speak the command word, he may want to instill linked triggers in the devices to activate their powers. Even though a linked trigger is attached to another power instilled in an item, it is still a second effect, requiring the construction of an in''
''vested item. An invested item is not limited by the number of powers it has, but by its shape and material. Several of the necessary effects for creating a living corpse can be instilled in the same invested item. These two sample devices contain all the spell-like effects necessary to create a living corpse, except for the ritual spell that is required to summon the ghost. The gold orb binds the summoned ghost within it. The crown animates the corpse and passes control of the animated corpse to the bound ghost. Both invested devices have a magically linked trigger, so that the primary effect can be activated through conditional factors rather than by a spoken command word. As they are designed to capture and bind a more powerful ghost, the Penetration has been increased accordingly. The two devices detailed here might be enchanted by a magus with an egotistical personality, fashioning the living corpse as the king of the dead.''
''An Orb for the Spectral Sovereign ReMe 52 Pen: 30, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room A hand-sized gold globe is instilled with the spell Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel (see earlier), which captures a ghost inside it. The power activates when triggered by the linked spell, Detect the Presence of the Spectral Sovereign. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger, +3 linked trigger, +15 penetration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (104), 2 seasons (78), 3 seasons (70), 4 seasons (65) This effect costs 6 pawns of vis.''
''Detect the Presence of the Spectral Sovereign InVi 49 Pen: 30, 2 uses per day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This effect detects the presence of a specific ghost, which is determined during''
''the creation of the invested device. Every sunrise and sunset this power activates, constantly scanning the room the invested device is touching for a specific ghost. If the spell-like effect detects the ghost and penetrates its Magic Resistance, this effect activates the device’s primary power and binds the ghost within the gold globe. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger, +15 penetration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (98), 2 seasons (74), 3 seasons (66), 4 seasons (62) This effect costs 5 pawns of vis. Combined with its primary power, these effects costs 11 pawns of vis. A hand-sized gold orb can hold a maximum allotment of 20 pawns of vis (gold material 10 x 2 Size small).''
''A Crown for the Sovereign’s Host This gold crown rests atop the corpse’s head. It has three powers, The Rising of the King, The Anointing of the King, and Perceive the Presence of Magic.''
''The Rising of the King ReCo(Me) 37 Pen: 0, Constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind When activated, this spell-like effect causes the corpse to stand, using the spell Animate the Slumbering Corpse. The effect’s default command is, “Stand up.” (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Day, +1 Mentem requisite; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger, +3 linking trigger) Required Lab Total: 1 season (74), 2 seasons (56), 3 seasons (50), 4 seasons (47) This effect costs 4 pawns of vis.''
''The Anointing of the King MuVi 48 Pen: +30, 1/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind This effect casts Passing the Reigns of Corpus, which allows the ghost to control the animated corpse.''
''(Base effect 25 (to affect a level 30 Corpus effect), +1 Touch; +3 linked trigger, +15 Penetration 30) Required Lab Total: 1 season (96), 2 seasons (72), 3 seasons (64), 4 seasons (60) This effect costs 5 pawns of vis.''
''Perceive the Presence of Magic InVi 24 Pen: 0, Constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This spell detects if magic of the sixth magnitude or higher (level 30) has recently been cast in the targeted room. Its intent is to notice when the spell-like effect, An Orb for the Spectral Sovereign, is activated, at which point it will activate its two linked powers in the crown. There is a chance that it notices other spells. If so, it activates its linked powers and the corpse is again animated. Since the corpse is already animated, there is no visible effect. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger) Required Lab Total: 1 season (48), 2 seasons (36), 3 seasons (32), 4 seasons (30) This effect costs 3 pawns to instill. Combined with the previous two powers, it costs 12 pawns to animate the corpse. A gold crown has 20 available slots for vis (gold material [10] times small size [2]).''
''All five spell-like effects could be instilled within a single item, which would need to be able to contain 23 pawns of vis. Remember that the previous examples will work against a ghost whose Magic Might is lower than 30. A more powerful ghost will require a binding spell with higher Penetration, which will increase the number of pawns needed to enchant the device.''
''Invested Device: The Necromancer’s Grimoire''
''Another example of an invested device combines all the necessary enchantments into a single item. At first glance, a Nec''
''romancer’s Grimoire looks like any other large tome in a Hermetic library, big and heavy and filled with pages of parchment. Closer inspection reveals a more gruesome construction. The front cover is fashioned from a human skull and decorated with an amber gem and a turquoise stone, two reputedly sinister gemstones popular with necromancers. Human skulls are not hard to find for Hermetic magi, even those who live in the center of society, surrounded by opulence and grandeur. The two main sources for skulls are cemeteries and battlefields. Finding a fresh battleground could be a challenge or trivial, depending on where the magus lives and how close he is to marcher lands or other violently disputed areas. Most human settlements have cemeteries, on the other hand, and a magus might not even have to leave his covenant to mine the soil for skulls. However, it might be a better idea to raid a cemetery a few villages away, since the deceased’s relatives will certainly mind if their loved one’s skull is exhumed from its eternal rest. The cover’s gems can be acquired from a reputable jeweler, although the turquoise stone is rarer than the amber gem. Turquoise stones are more common in the East than in the West. The Necromancer’s Grimoire is first prepared as a compound item, as explained in ArM5, page 97. Each of the three components must be enchanted to grant the associated shape and material bonuses to the magus’ Lab Total. The front cover requires 9 pawns of vis to be prepared for enchantment (human bone [3] x medium size [3]). A magus must expend 12 pawns of vis to open the amber gem for enchantment (semi-precious stone [12] x tiny size [1]), and the same number of pawns for the turquoise stone (semi-precious stone [12] x tiny size [1]). Like any compound invested device, the magus must then decide to prepare the invested device using either the sum of the component parts (33 pawns of vis) or the highest required single component (12 pawns). In this case, merely preparing the device with 12 pawns of vis doesn’t allow enough room for the''
''necessary enchantments, which require 27 pawns of vis to instill. Preparing this compound invested device for enchantment is truly a feat, especially considering that, in a single season, a magus can only use a number of pawns of vis equal to his Magic Theory times two. Once the physical book is constructed and its component items are prepared for enchantments, the magus instills the following spell-like powers.''
''The Turquoise Stone-Soul ReMe 63 Pen: 52, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room The book is instilled with Imprison a Ghost in a Vessel, which captures the ghost inside the turquoise gem that adorns its cover. The book must be placed face down, so that the turquoise gem can touch the floor. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger, +3 linked trigger, +26 penetration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (126), 2 seasons (95), 3 seasons (84), 4 seasons (79) This effect costs 7 pawns of vis.''
''Detect the Presence of the Specter InVi 60 Pen: 52, 2 uses per day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This is the same linked trigger used previously. A specific ghost must be selected as the target of this effect. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +3 environmental trigger, +26 penetration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (120), 2 seasons (90), 3 seasons (80), 4 seasons (75) This effect costs 6 pawns of vis.''
''Rousing the Receiving Fleshy Host ReCo(Me) 42 Pen: 10, Constant effect''
''R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This instilled effect casts Animate the Slumbering Corpse. The book must be touching the corpse. The effect needs Penetration because the target is not a regular corpse, but a revenant with a Magic Might of 9 (see “A Necromantic Miscellany,” later). Although the revenant is already animated, moving under the control of its own animating spirit, this effect will override the revenant’s animating spirit and place the bound ghost in charge. The effect’s default command is, “Stand up.” (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Mentem requisite; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger, +3 linking trigger, +5 penetration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (84), 2 seasons (63), 3 seasons (56), 4 seasons (53) This effect costs 5 pawns of vis.''
''Grant Control to the Ghost MuVi 59 Pen: +30, 1/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The spell-like effect, Passing the Reigns of Corpus, is instilled to allow the ghost to''
''control the Rousing the Receiving Fleshy Host spell-like effect. (Base effect 25 (to affect a level 30 Corpus effect), +1 Touch, +3 linked trigger, +26 Penetration 52) Required Lab Total: 1 season (118), 2 seasons (89), 3 seasons (79), 4 seasons (74) This effect costs 6 pawns of vis.''
''Perceive the Presence of Magic InVi 24 Pen: 0, Constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This is the same linked trigger described previously. The power The Turquoise Stone-Soul will activate this effect, which will in turn activate both Rousing the Receiving Fleshy Host and Grant Control to the Ghost. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger) Required Lab Total: 1 season (48), 2 seasons (36), 3 seasons (32), 4 seasons (30) This effect costs 3 pawns to instill. The total cost of all five spell-like effects is 27 pawns of vis.''
''After the book is enchanted, the necromancer creates a revenant using a ritual''
''spell. He ties the book to the revenant and commands it to lie on the floor facedown, so that the book touches both it and the floor. He then summons a specific ghost. As soon as the ghost enters the chamber, the linking trigger Detect the Presence of the Specter detects the ghost and activates The Turquoise Soul-Stone, which imprisons the ghost in the turquoise gem. Perceive the Presence of Magic detects the activation of the effect  The Turquoise Soul-Stone, and activates Rousing the Receiving Fleshy Host and Grant Control to the Ghost. Once completed, the living corpse is a combination of the summoned ghost and the revenant. The living corpse’s Magic Resistance is the ghost’s. Both ghost and revenant have Magic Resistance prior to combining the two into a living corpse, but after the living corpse is created, the ghost’s Magic Resistance supersedes the revenant’s Magic Resistance. The ghost is bound in the Grimoire, so its Magic Resistance protects the book, just like a magus’ Parma Magica protects his clothes and worn personal items. Because the revenant is wearing the book, it too is covered by the ghost’s Magic Resistance. If the living corpse detaches the book, the revenant is''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Spells to Make and Shape a Bone Book Cover==

''Bequeathing Salome’s Request''
''CrCo 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part, Ritual This spell creates a human head, complete with skin, eyes, teeth, and hair. The particulars of the head’s appearance are up to the spell’s inventor. Castor of Sicily’s version of the spell makes created heads look like his own. The spell is named after Salome, the stepdaughter of King Herod, who asked for and received the head of John the Baptist, according to Biblical history. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Part: however the lowest level a ritual can be is 20) Base Level Interpretation: According to Magi of Hermes, page 84, the base level to create part of a corpse is the''
''same as the base level to create the whole corpse, adjusted by the increased Target: Part. Required Lab Total: 1 season (40), 2 seasons (30), 3 seasons (27), 4 seasons (25)''
''Forging the Bone Cover''
''MuCo 5 R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind This spell changes the inelastic nature of bone, making it elastic and able to be reshaped under pressure. The skull becomes as pliable as clay for the duration of the spell. Once this spell is cast, a human skull can be pressed into a book-shaped wooden frame. When the spell ends, the skull reverts to its inelas''
''tic property, but retains its new shape. If later used in an enchanted item, the reshaped skull still gives the magus the same Shape & Material bonus (ArM5, page 110). (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Conc) Base Level Interpretation: A base level 1 Muto Terram spell will change one property of dirt. The base level to create dirt is Creo Terram 1, and the base level to create stone is base level 3. A base level 3 Muto Terram would change one property of stone. Bone is harder than dirt but softer than stone, so a base level 1 would not be enough, but base level 3 would. Thus: Muto Corpus base level 3, change one property of bone. Required Lab Total: 1 season (10), 2 seasons (8), 3 seasons (7), 4 seasons (7)''

|}
''no longer protected by the ghost’s Magic Resistance. Note that once the living corpse is created, the book does not have to touch the revenant to allow the ghost to control it.''
''Invested Device: The Lesser Necromantic Manuals''
''These books are similar to the Necromancer’s Grimoire in appearance and function. Each is also a compound item, but with only two elements: a lead cover and a turquoise stone for adornment. The stone costs 12 pawns to prepare for enchantment (semi-precious stone [12] x tiny size [1]) and the lead cover costs 15 pawns (base metal [5] x medium size [3]). Most magi''
''will prepare the item for enchantment by only paying the most expensive cost (15), which requires a Magic Theory of 8. Two books are necessary. The first is instilled with The Turquoise Stone-Soul and Detect the Presence of the Specter. Together these powers cost 13 pawns of vis. The second volume is instilled with Rousing the Receiving Fleshy Host, Grant Control to the Ghost, and Perceive the Presence of Magic. These three powers cost 14 pawns of vis to instill. A pair of Necromantic Manuals will achieve the same effects as the Necromancer’s Grimoire.''
''Talismans''
''If a necromancer wants to become a living corpse, he can instill the necessary''
''spell-like effects into his talisman. Unlike other types of enchanted devices, a talisman is not restricted in the number of powers, it can hold by its shape and material form. Rather, the sum of the magus’ highest Technique and Form determines the talisman’s maximum capacity of pawns of vis, which in turn determines the number of instilled powers the talisman can hold, and the limit increases as the magus improves his Arts. A second benefit of using a talisman is the Range of the instilled powers. Because a talisman is considered part of a magus, the spell-like effects can be instilled with Personal Range. This decreases the final spell-like effect total by a magnitude and bypasses any residual Parma Magica the magus may have (see “A Personal Living Corpse,” later). Two example talismans''

==Story Seeds: In the Graveyard==

''At some point in a necromancer’s life, he will probably go rooting around in the local graveyard, looking for material components or a supply of corpses. While it’s easy enough with Hermetic magic to create corpses, it costs vis to make them permanent. Most magi find it easier to send a group of grogs out on a rainy night to retrieve various charnel bric-a-brac from a nearby graveyard. In medieval parlance, a “graveyard” or “boneyard” is an enclosed space lying adjacent to a church. It is not interchangeable with “cemetery,” which refers to a subterranean burial crypt like the catacombs found beneath Rome. In many parts of Mythic Europe, the graveyard is surrounded by a stone wall to discourage vagrants and body snatchers, who retrieved corpses for natural philosophers and other more nefarious clients. A graveyard has an obvious opening, primarily to allow easy access to religious processions for feasts and ceremonies.  Several graveyards in England have a “lych-gate,” a roofed entrance where the priest and mourners gather before a body’s internment. A notable feature of French graveyards is a lanterne des morts, a''
''20to 30-foot-high stone monument resembling a lighthouse with a lantern at its top, which is lit for important vigils and feasts. Like most of medieval society, a graveyard is segregated according to status. Ranked nobility and clergymen are buried near or even in the church, with elaborately carved stone headstones and funerary arrangements. Cheaper headstones exist for those who can afford them, and blacksmiths will fashion iron crosses for those who can’t afford stone. Even the destitute are buried with a wooden cross to mark their grave. Built on consecrated ground, most graveyards have a Divine aura. While not as strong as the aura in the church itself, the graveyard’s aura likely stays positive day and night. Because of this holy atmosphere, many Infernal, Magic, and Faerie denizens avoid a graveyard. If the Divine aura is low, however, powerful creatures will not shy from the graveyard. In society, graveyards are often a place for the local population to gather, and though it is frowned upon by the upper echelons of the church, weekly markets and holiday festivals are sometimes held in graveyards.''
''The best supernatural protection a graveyard offers is to the soul of the departed, for if he was buried with the proper Christian rites, his soul and spirit are immune to magical tampering. However, his body is not, and his parts and remains may prove useful to necromancers. A skull taken from consecrated soil provides the same Shape and Material bonuses as one found on a battlefield or conjured in the laboratory.''
''An Extraordinary Coincidence''
''On the night that a band of grogs is dispatched to retrieve something from the graveyard, another group of shadowy figures is exhuming a body when the grogs arrive. None of the figures are recognizable, especially the leader, who stands apart, hidden under the folds of a black cloak. Is he an infernalist, stealing corpses for his foul masters? Is he another magus, directing his turb of grogs in the same mission as the watching grogs? Maybe he is a priest and has decided that the body does not deserve religious burial, and is thus directing its removal''
''are the Hand Mirror of Circe and the Staff of the Witch of Endor. The Hand Mirror of Circe is a small, silver mirror with a shaped skull handle and decorative amber and turquoise stones set around the mirror’s face. This collection of materials provides several Shape and Material bonus for the talisman’s enchantments. A mirror provides a Shape and Material bonus of +3 for both summoning and controlling ghosts. Instead of shaping a human skull into a book cover, it is shaped into a handle, which provides a +3 bonus for corpses. A turquoise gem grants a +4 bonus for necromancy, and an amber stone provides a +3 bonus for corpses. A magus might also want to invent effects that make the item more durable. Circe was the most powerful necromancer in the Classical Greek myths, having taught''

==Story Seeds: In the Graveyard (cont’d)==

''from consecrated ground. As the grogs ponder their predicament, one of the diggers spies them and raises the alarm. What will they do?''
''An Unfortunate Witness''
''While prowling the graveyard for a corpse, the assigned grogs hear a commotion coming from the nearby mortuary chapel. The door opens and a woman departs, after giving the resident priest a lingering goodbye kiss. The woman is recognized as the wife of a prosperous local merchant. An hour later, when the grogs are truly engaged in grave robbing, a second woman arrives in the dead of the night and knocks at the priest’s door. She is also a wealthy merchant’s wife. What’s going on? Necromancers are notorious for casting love spells. Is the priest really a necromancer who has put the village’s affluent women under his control?''
''An Unearthly Surprise''
''The magus wants a human skull, and the grogs have selected a fresh grave.''
''Bodies are not buried that deeply in the Middle Ages, and the grogs get suspicious when they keep digging and don’t unearth the corpse. The soil is easily removed, as if it has been recently disturbed beneath the sod covering. Suddenly, the pit collapses and the grogs tumble into an underground tunnel. Has some horrible beast been tunneling under the graveyard, snatching corpses from below the earth’s surface? The dark tunnel yawns in both directions, and recent rumors of a burrowing dragon frighteningly rise up in the grogs’ heads. Their master has sent them to the graveyard because he does not want to be interrupted. Does this bear mentioning, or should the grogs investigate without his prior approval?''
''A Divine Interruption''
''Midway through their nocturnal excavations, a silver-gray wolf leaps the graveyard’s wall and intrudes on the grogs’ grave robbing. The grogs have inadvertently selected the grave of a hermit, whom the wolf, Lupersus, was charged to protect. Despite the hermit’s''
''demise, Lupersus still views itself as a protector, and spontaneously decides to protect all those buried in this consecrated ground. Will the grogs slay a Divine creature to continue their mission?''
''Mysterious Grave Goods''
''The practice of burying a corpse with personal goods is diminishing in the 13th century. The Church frowns on this because it is reminiscent of pagan practices, and secular rulers have found that burying people without possessions cuts down on grave robbing. Unearthing a corpse and finding personal artifacts is the exception, rather than the rule, and it should surprise even the most dull-witted grog when he finds a gold rod clasped in the hands of the corpse he has just exhumed. Later, laboratory investigation triggers a curse, and the magus realizes that he holds one of the rare enchanted items crafted by Himinis the Mad (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 122). Who was this man buried with such a device, and will clues to his identity lead to the hidden sepulcher of Himinis himself?''
''Ulysses enough necromantic lore to journey to Hades. The Staff of the Witch of Endor is carved from a cypress tree. Cypress provides a Shape and Material bonus of +3 for necromancy, which would cover all the necessary instilled effects. It is not uncommon for a wizard to have a staff, and few would suspect that a living corpse’s staff is actually keeping him whole. Whereas Circe is the most famous pagan necromancer, the witch of Endor is the most famous necromancer in the Christian tradition.''

==A Personal Living Corpse==

''A necromancer who wants to become a living corpse has two options. The easiest is to ask a trusted associate to perform the living corpse operation after the necromancer’s death. The necromancer constructs the required enchanted items, instilling as much Penetration as possible. Once complete, he entrusts the enchanted items to a second magus, who promises to summon the necromancer’s ghost after death. The magus needs to provide a fresh corpse for the ghost, and affix the enchanted items to it. If the necromancer is particularly fond of his own body, he could''
''insist that his compatriot use it, instead of another. The necromancer might wear the enchanted items in anticipation of becoming a living corpse. Needless to say, the necromancer must trust this assistant implicitly, literally placing his un-life in the second magus’ hands. If the magus refuses to summon the necromancer’s ghost, then all is for naught. Not every necromancer has such a trusted friend. Because summoning a ghost is a ritual spell, and ritual spells cannot be put into enchanted devices, it would seem that an assistant is mandatory. There is a way around this, however, for the few daring enough to undertake it: ritual suicide. The idea is simple. When a person dies, his soul and spirit depart his body, rushing off to whatever destination awaits them. While manipulations of the soul are beyond Hermetic magic, containing the spirit is not. The plan is for the necromancer to kill himself and trap his departing spirit so that it cannot escape. The ghost’s presence triggers a cascade of spell-like effects emanating from a previously prepared enchanted device, whose effects bind the ghost, animate the corpse, and pass control of the corpse to the ghost. Once decided, the necromancer casts as powerful a Ring of Warding Against Spirits as he can, keeping in mind that the spell must Penetrate the Magic Might of the forthcoming spirit. Primarily designed to''
''keep spirits out, the ward can also keep spirits in, barring a spirit’s passing from one side to the other. The necromancer places the various enchanted devices about himself, on the floor, on his body, depending on how he has designed them. Without further, ado he kills himself. Drinking hemlock has a certain philosophical flair, and cutting one’s throat is dramatic, but any method that culminates in death works. When his heart beats its last, the spirit departs, to be barred by the Ward Against Spirits. The necromancer’s enchanted devices activate, grabbing the spirit and forcing it into a container, animating the necromancer’s corpse, and binding the two together. Becoming a living corpse unassisted is not a guaranteed process, and there are many complications. Most importantly, it is probable that a magus’ spirit will become a ghost, but not automatic. Hermetic magic can affect ghosts in many ways, but it cannot create a ghost, and no existing Hermetic process gives even the slightest chance of doing so. If a ghost does result, it could be aligned to any of the four supernatural realms, depending on the nature and prior experiences of the magus. Because Hermetic magic must be realm-specific, the ward and devices will have to target the realm that the ghost is actually aligned with. An overly cautious magus could cast four Wards Against Spirits, to anticipate all four possibilities, and create four binding devices. If a ghost results from the suicide, and if the necromancer has correctly anticipated to which realm the ghost is aligned, he should become a living corpse. If any of these falls short — the ghost flees, the spell-like effect is targeting a ghost from a different realm that it was designed for, or the effect fails to Penetrate — the process fails. Timing can be important. If the process works, the ghost is still stopped by the Ward Against Spirits. The necromancer must calculate how long he wants the ward to last, compared with when his device to bind the ghost will trigger. Using the Orb for the Spectral Sovereign example (see earlier), the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Third Method==

''Not every magus is prohibited from instilling Ritual spell-like effects into enchanted devices. The Minor Mystery Virtue: Hermetic Empowerment (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 64) allows this very activity, and a magus privy to this secret lore can create an enchanted device that can summon a ghost. The frequency — or even existence — of this Virtue depends on your troupe and the saga you are playing. It might not exist. If it does it should be rare, like the other Mystery Virtues, and difficult to acquire. Because it is''
''so rare and not generally available for the typical magus, this chapter will not deal with it other than to mention its existence. After reading this chapter, it should be relatively easy to create your own spell-like effects to incorporate Hermetic Empowerment, if it exists in your game. A necromancer could construct a single enchanted device that summons a ghost, binds it to a vessel, animates a corpse, and passes control of the animated spell to the ghost through a series of linked triggers and cascading effects.''

|}
''necromancer must ensure that the ward lasts past sundown, when the orb’s linking trigger activates the primary power, but ends afterwards. Using standard Hermetic Durations, this means that the ward must have a Duration: Moon, giving the living ghost plenty of time to acclimate to his new condition. Another solution would be to create a Perdo Vim device that the living corpse could use to remove the ward.''

==The Living Corpse==

''If everything works as planned, the character — presumably a magus — becomes a living corpse, and the player needs to redo his character sheet. He must remake his character and, while he has some latitude, other choices will already be fixed by choices made in the character’s life. Realms of Power: Magic is an essential tool for creating the living corpse character.''

==On Ghosts and Spirits==

''Spirits are the overall rubric used to describe immaterial supernatural entities. They are “a mind, memory, image, or idea somehow brought to life” (Realms of Power: Magic, page 45). Genius spirits are those that are created as such, and animus spirits are those that were once material but ceased to be. Ghosts fall under this second type of spirit. Hermetic theory catalogues three types of ghosts: apparitions, shades, and specters. Apparitions have the most memories of their life and specters the least, with shades falling somewhere in the middle. An additional subclass of ghosts is the animating spirit that controls a revenant, one of the walking dead. Much weaker than even a specter, this animated spirit is intricately entwined with the corpse that it controls. Ideally,''
''the necromancer wanting to become a living corpse hopes his ghost becomes an apparition, to retain the highest degree of memory. Coming back from death as a shade will severely limit his capabilities, and returning as a specter is little better than the animating spirit that controls a shambling corpse. Theologians are unanimous in stating that a living person has both a soul and a spirit, and that both reside in the whole body. There is less agreement on what differentiates the spirit from the soul, but all agree that both exist within man. While alive, a man’s spirit and soul reside within him, and after death his soul travels to whatever destination has been ordained for it. Academics debate what happens to the soul, some claiming it goes straight to Heaven, Purgatory, Hell, or another destination. Ideas are more mixed regarding the spirit’s fate. Does it follow the soul or take a separate route to another supernatural location? Hermetic scholars agree that a spirit separated from its material form often exists in one of the supernatural realms, or an aura aligned with that realm, and while attached to its material form it resides in the material form. It makes sense that at death, when the material form ceases to function, the spirit quickly changes locations. It is during this change, this transition from material-attachment to solo supernatural existence, that a spirit can be trapped.''
''The Type of Ghost a Spirit Becomes''
''When creating a non-personal living corpse, a necromancer has a good chance of summoning the type of spirit he wants to inhabit the corpse. Researching ghosts, he’ll find one from the realm he desires and with a Might score he can handle. If he is summoning the ghost of a lost friend or companion, he might not know the Might of the ghost or which realm it is aligned to, and will have to make a calculated guess. If he is performing a personal living corpse transforma''
''tion, he hopes his spirit becomes a ghost affiliated with the Magic realm, which is far from automatic. Hermetic magic has no control over what type of ghost a spirit becomes, or even if a spirit forms into a ghost. The spell The Shadow of Life Renewed shows the difficulties Hermetic magic has in delving into the area of spirits and reattaching them to a material form. To determine how successful that spell is, the player must roll a simple die, and a higher roll produces a more cognizant revived person. The random result of this spell is problematic because few other Hermetic spells have a random effect; the vast majority of spells do what they are designed to do. Is the random result due to the nature of the spell, or because the spell is affecting a difficult and perhaps undecided medium? Perhaps the player must roll to see what type of spirit comes back because spirits are undecided things and, during its transition from material attachment to immaterial separation, a spirit undergoes many changes. Instead of stating de facto the metaphysical rules of spirits and ghosts in Mythic Europe, this chapter instead offers two options for troupes to choose from. These options are only relevant in this specific application: the magus is trying to capture his fleeting spirit in a ward spell and the troupe needs to determine what type of ghost the spirit becomes.''
''Option One: Random Chance Being affiliated to the Magic realm — possessing the Gift — has absolutely no bearing on what type of ghost a magus’ spirit becomes. The instant a magus dies, roll on the following chart to see if an immaterial ghost manifests from the spirit.''
''Roll	 Result 1 No spirit remains — there is simply no spirit to summon, now or in the future. 2 The spirit becomes an Infernal, Divine, or Faerie ghost, whichever best suits the magus. 3 The spirit is mindless and passion''
''less, with a Magic Might of 0 and no magical powers. 4-5 The spirit is a simple animating spirit, similar to one that exists in a revenant. 6-7 The spirit becomes a magic ghost specter. 8 The spirit becomes a magic ghost shade. 9-10 The spirit becomes a magic ghost apparition.''
''The results mirror those possible when casting The Shadow of Life Renewed. The statistical ramifications of the different types of magic ghosts will be explained later.''
''Option Two: Magic Has Impact Being affiliated with the Magic realm indicates a distinct possibility that the magus’ departing spirit will become a magic ghost. When the character dies the players rolls a stress die + Magic Lore + Vim Form bonus + aura. The storyguide rolls a stress die (no botch) + the absolute value of all the character’s Personality Traits + Divine, Infernal, or Faerie Lore (whichev''
''er is highest). The character’s Personality traits indicate how firmly attached he is to the world and other human affairs, something that creatures from the Magic realm have no interest in. If the storyguide’s roll is higher, the spirit becomes a ghost affiliated with another realm (whichever Lore score the storyguide used). If the player botches the roll, the spirit does not become a ghost. If the player rolls equal to or higher than the storyguide, the spirit becomes a magic ghost. If the player’s roll is three higher than the storyguide’s, the ghost is a specter; if it is six higher, the ghost is a shade; and if it is nine points higher, the ghost is an apparition.''
''Player’s Death Roll: Aura + Magic Lore + Vim Form bonus + stress die vs. Storyguide’s death roll''
''Storyguide’s Death Roll: Absolute Value of all Personality Traits + Divine/Infernal/Faerie Lore + stress die (no botch)''
''These options should only be available for Gifted characters, those already associated with the Magic realm. If a non-Gifted''
''character becomes a living corpse, and the players must decide what type of ghost his spirit becomes, use the listed options but ignore any mention of shades and apparitions. Unless he has supernatural Abilities affiliated with the Magic realm, an unGifted character always becomes a specter, if he becomes a magic ghost at all.''

==Magic Realm Living Corpse==

''The most common type of spirit attached to an animated corpse is a magic spirit. Not that the Magic realm has more ghosts than the other realms — it may or may not — but magi, being already associated with the Magic realm, usually use spirits from that realm. Because a Hermetic necromancer is more inclined to use magic ghosts — he has sworn an oath not to meddle with Infernal spirits — magic ghosts get more coverage than their other realm counterparts.''
''Magic Might''
''The living corpse’s Magic Might starts at 0, as described by the Major Supernatural Virtue: Transformed (Being) (Realms of Power: Magic, page 47). A player may change this by buying Magic Qualities that increase Might and paying for them with Magic Inferiorities. Because a magus is already affiliated with the Magic realm, a Gifted living corpse character may start with a Magic Might higher than 0, depending on the option the troupe used to determine if the magus’ spirit became a ghost. Such a character’s starting Magic Might depends on the power-level of the saga and the type of magical ghost it became: specter, shade, or apparition. Use the following guidelines when determining starting Magic Might.''
''Power Specter Shade	 Apparition Low 0 5 10 Medium 3 10 20''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Rate of Decomposition==

''Bodily decomposition is easy to prevent with Hermetic magic; a mere second magnitude Creo Corpus spell averts human putrefaction. Without such effects, however, a body decomposes fairly rapidly. It may be the case that a necromancer is animating a corpse not recently deceased. Perhaps he is animating a companion who has lain dead for a week, or tearing one from a month-old grave mound.  Using the original stats of the animated character, adjust them accordingly to the time between death and reanimation. Mental faculties fade immediately, and an animated corpse automatically has “n/a” in all four Mental Characteristics. Physical Characteristics decompose slowly. Reduce each Physical Characteristic by –1 for each day after the''
''character’s death. Characteristics linger at –5 for a year, at which point they too change to “n/a.” If animated after a year dead, use the animating wizard’s Finesse score in place of any formula that would require a physical Characteristic on the animated corpse’s part. This rate of decomposition assumes that the corpse is buried in a coffin in the ground, and different environments affect the rate at which the corpse putrefies. Tropical temperatures and remaining above ground quicken decomposition, and storyguides should increase the time it takes for the body to rot, for example, reducing physical Characteristics by one each hour. Cold or dry environments lengthen the time taken for decomposition, and periods of putrefaction should be extended.''

|}
''High 5 15 30 Legendary 10 25 50 To increase the character’s Might, the player must purchase the Minor Magic Quality: Improved Might, which increases the character’s Magic Might by one point each time it is purchased. A character can have the same number of Qualities and Inferiorities as he had starting Virtues and Flaws (not counting the Free Virtue every magus starts with due to his House). You must also select the Form that the spirit character is associated with. For a magus, this could be his highest Form. For an unGifted character, the Form will likely be Mentem, the Form most magic ghosts are connected to. A side effect of possessing Might is that the character now has raw vis circulating inside of him, like other magical creatures. If slain, this vis can be harvested. The spirit has one pawn for every five points of Might, rounded up, of the Form that it is associated with. The ghost has Magic Resistance that is equal to its Might. If the ghost is bound within a vessel inside the corpse, the corpse has the same Magic Resistance as the ghost.''
''Virtues and Flaws''
''As soon as a magus becomes a living corpse, the character replaces the Special Virtue: The Gift with the Special Virtue: Magic Spirit. If the character did not have The Gift, he still gains the Magic Spirit Virtue. He also gains the Major Supernatural Virtue: Transformed (Being) and the General Major Flaw: Magical Air. Transformed (Being) counts against the total number of Virtues and Flaws the character can have, but Magical Air does not. If the magus had the Gentle Gift, the living corpse does not receive the Magical Air Flaw. If the magus had the Blatant Gift, the Magical Air Flaw is intensified to the Major Supernatural Flaw: Blatant Magical Air. It this case, Blatant Magical Air replaces Blatant Gift and counts''
''in the total balance of Virtues and Flaws. Essentially, being a living corpse is just as socially problematic as being a magus, and to the same degree. The player must next repurchase any Virtues and Flaws the character had in life, adhering to the maximum number of Virtues and Flaws allowable by the character type. It is not necessary to purchase a Social Status Virtue or Flaw because a living corpse does not fit into any imaginable social framework. Virtues and Flaws must balance at the end of the process. There is a possibility that some Virtues and Flaws may be lost; the player must select those that are most important to keep. No new Virtues or Flaws may be selected; only those that the character had in life are ac''
''ceptable choices.''
''Characteristics''
''The living corpse has the same Characteristics that the character had while living. Physical Characteristics will only be necessary if the spirit can take material form, but since it is bound to a corpse, becoming material isn’t necessary. Players should use the corpse’s Physical Characteristics in place of the character’s when the corpse is doing physical things, which will be most of the time. Both sets of Characteristics, the ghost’s and the corpse’s, should be retained on the character sheet. Aging Points can be ignored,''
''but the possibility of putrefaction still exists (see insert).''
''Abilities''
''A spirit is a shadowy fragment of the former magus, and does not have all of the Abilities and memories that the magus had in life. To determine what Abilities are retained, the player must buy them again. To determine how many experience points the character has for repurchasing Abilities, the troupe will have to decide what Season the spirit is. Season is a new Characteristic described in Realms of Power: Magic, pages 33–34, and is used to describe the age of a magic creature. If the ghost was summoned by another necromancer and bound to a living corpse, it could be any Season. If the necromancer has succeeded in killing himself and trapping and binding his spirit, it could be a Spring ghost. On the other hand, if it is an archmagus doing the ritual suicide, the ghost could be a Summer or an Autumn spirit. There is a loose correlation between the type of the spirit and its associated Season, but this is not definitive. Ultimately the troupe makes this decision.''
''Type of Spirit Season Experience Animating Spirit Spring 120 Specter Summer 360 Shade Autumn 720 Apparition Winter 1200''
''Like Virtues and Flaws, the player can only buy Abilities for the living corpse that the character had in life. Supernatural Abilities are allowed only if the living corpse retained the associated Supernatural Virtue. If the living corpse does not have enough experience points to buy all the Abilities that the character had while living — and most won’t — the player has to choose which are most important. The player can always select the Minor Magic Quality Improved Experience Points and gain 50 experience points for each time he''

==Darius as a Living Corpse==

''This example takes Darius of House Flambeau (ArM5, page 34) and recasts him as a living corpse. It assumes that he constructed a Necromancer’s Grimoire as a talisman, the ritual suicide worked in creating a ghost, and his ghost was bound to a fresh corpse. Speculating that Darius’ saga is Medium Powered and that he became a shade at death, he begins with a Magic Might of 10 and 720 experience points to repurchase Abilities. He has 10 additional Qualities that are balanced with a like number of Inferiorities. He has magically created a fresh corpse (see stats listed later) for his ghost to control.''
''Magic Might: 21 (Corpus) Spirit Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre –3, Com –1, Str +2, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +2 Corpse Characteristics: Int –2, Per –2, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Hermetic Magus, Magic Spirit; Transformed Spirit; Enduring Constitution, Hermetic Prestige, Second Sight, StrongWilled; Blatant Magical Air, Driven (Hunt Enemies of the Order), Disfigured (horrific appearance). Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Master of Corpus), Greater Power (x2); Improved Might (x11); Major Flaw (Hunger for Corpus Magic), Temporary Might; Limited Speech, Minor Flaw (Weak Sight), Minor Flaw (Sensitive to Heat), Reduced Fatigue Personality Trait: Dedicated to Cause +6 Reputations: Dedicated Hoplite +3 (Hermetic magi) Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +3 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Destroyed (21+)''
''Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (grammar), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 3 (alertness), Bavaria Lore 2 (geography), Brawl 3 (fist), Civil and Canon Law 1 (local customs), Code of Hermes 3 (Wizards’ Marches), Concentration 3 (spells), Dominion Lore 2 (divine creatures), Faerie Lore 2 (faerie forests), Finesse 4 (precision), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), German 4 (merchant slang), Guile 3 (fast talk), Hunt 2 (tracking), Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Latin 4 (Hermetic), Leadership 3 (intimidation), Magic Lore 2 (creatures), Order of Hermes Lore 4 (criminals), Penetration 6 (Perdo), Philosophiae 2 (moral philosophy), Second Sight 3 (invisibility), Stealth 2 (shadowing), Survival 1 (forests) Powers: Clenching Grip of the Crushed Heart, 2 points, Init –2, Corpus: This power mimics the spell of the same name, one of Darius’ favorites in life. Because it is a magical power, the spirit’s Quickness was used to calculate the power’s Initiative. Grip of the Choking Hand, 0 points, Init +4, Corpus: Mimics the spell of the same name. Mastery points reduce the cost to 0 and increase the Init. Master of Corpus, variable points, Init (Qik – Might cost), Corpus: Duplicates any Perdo or Muto Corpus effect. The effect level must be lower than Darius’ Might. This power costs one Might point per magnitude of the effect. Equipment: Former robes and his Necromancer’s Grimoire talisman Vis: 4 pawns of Corpus vis Appearance: A dull-eyed corpse clad in Darius’ ominous robes, with his talisman tied to his chest.''
''As a newly created living corpse, Darius has lost several Abilities and a handful of Virtues. His new powers and Magic Might barely compensate for his lost Arts, spells, and Parma Magica. He will surely want to increase his Might and gain new powers.''
''buys that Magic Quality. There is a possibility that the attached ghost will have some of the same Abilities as the corpse. In this case, use the ghost’s Ability instead of the corpse’s Ability. If an activity calls for an Ability that the ghost doesn’t have but the corpse does, use the corpse’s Ability, since it is being controlled by the ghost.''
''Magical Qualities and Inferiorities''
''Spirits have magical powers, which are represented by Qualities. A living corpse character, like other magical creatures, may have as many Qualities as he has points of Might. He does not have to buy off these starting Qualities with Inferiorities. As a player character, a living corpse may buy additional Qualities as long as they are paid for by Inferiorities. He may have as many additional Qualities as he was allowed Virtues. Just as Flaws must balance with Virtues, Inferiorities must balance with additional Qualities. A player may select Qualities from the list on pages 36–41 in Realms of Power: Magic. Perhaps the best use of Qualities is selecting Powers. A newly transformed living corpse has no Powers, and the player can only gain magical powers by purchasing them with Qualities. A second good use of Qualities is to increase Magic Might, especially if the character started with Might 0. Most powers cost Might Points to invoke, and a ghost with powers and no Might is rather flaccid in play. Ghosts of magi do not have Arts nor do they know any spells. Instead they mimic their former Hermetic spell casting by using innate magical powers that mirror spells they once knew. The most useful Qualities in this regard are Crafter of (Form), which allows the living corpse to mimic any non-Ritual Creo or Rego effect for the chosen Form up to a level equal to the spirit’s Might or 25 (whichever is lower), and Master of''
''(Form), which allows the spirit to duplicate any non-Ritual Muto or Perdo effect (again with the same limits). Both are Major Qualities.''
''Personality Traits''
''A magus has a variety of Personality Traits, indicative of the complexity of the human psyche. A ghost does not; it has one overriding Personality Trait that consumes its thinking. The character’s highest Personality Trait becomes its sole Personality Trait, and its value is doubled to reflect the passion and directness of purpose of a returning spirit. In the case of a tie, the player may choose the ghost’s Personality Trait.''

==Other Realm Ghosts==

''Spirits from other realms besides the Magic realm can be summoned and bound to a living corpse. If a magus is making a living corpse instead of becoming one, he can decide which type of ghost to summon, bearing in mind that spells and devices must be realm-specific. For example, if he wants to summon and bind a Divine ghost, spells and enchanted devices must be invented to target Divine spirits. All such spells will still be Rego Mentem spells, but a Rego Mentem spell designed to summon a ghost affiliated with the Magic realm (Magic Might) will not work on a ghost affiliated with any other realm. A necromancer attempting to become a living corpse without assistance also faces the possibility that his spirit will not become a ghost connected to the Magic realm. If his spirit becomes a Divine or Infernal ghost, the enchanted devices he constructed to trap and bind the spirit will not work, unless he has had the foresight to instill powers aimed at a creature of those realms. Because suicide is a sin, it is highly unlikely that a necromancer’s spirit will become a Divine ghost, but anything''
''is possible in the ineffable machinations of the Divine. Specific mention must be made of Faerie ghosts, which are not exactly ghosts but faeries occupying the role of a ghost. Made of glamour, like other faeries, such an entity is not made of the same immaterial substance, whatever that substance is, as other ghosts. It is more theoretically likely that a necromancer’s spirit would change into a true ghost — Magic, Divine, or Infernal — than into glamour that then assumes the role of a ghost. But Mythic Europe is by nature mystical, and it could be possible within its ambiguous cosmology for a spirit to change into glamour. Such decisions must be determined by individual troupes, taking into account the nature of the necromancer character.''
''Divine Ghosts''
''Classifying Divine ghosts is difficult. They are neither angels nor saints, nor can any theologian state definitively how they fit into the celestial hierarchy. In medieval stories, Divine ghosts often take the form of holy men, which further blurs the distinction between them and saints. While a Divine ghost is not a saint and is not venerated, it usually has similar powers. A Divine ghost typically can recall all of its former memories. Rather than revolving around an ideal, specific memory, or tragic reenactment, a Divine ghost is usually created to advance God’s plan. The most common example is a Divine ghost warning its former loved ones against some evil or impending doom. A player character Divine ghost won’t have this heavenly foresight, and may instead act as wise companion or spiritual guide to his former friends and sodales. Due to his Divine nature, he is unable to commit an evil or selfish act. Use the method described previously to determine the Divine Might of the ghost, cross-referencing the character-lev''
''el-role that the ghost will play against the power-level of your saga. Unlike a Magic ghost, a Divine ghost is not able to augment its Might through additional Virtues or Qualities. A Divine Ghost’s powers are similar to a saint’s and created the same way (Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, page 89). Select powers whose total point cost equals the ghost’s Divine Might divided by five.''
''Infernal Ghosts''
''An Infernal ghost is a damned soul whose spirit is allowed to wander the material world. Its essence is the same immaterial substance that other realm ghosts are made from, not the “invisible smoke” that makes up a demon’s spiritual form. While not originally demons, Infernal ghosts fit within the same Infernal hierarchy and must occupy one of the nine Infernal orders described in Realms''
''of Power: Infernal. An Infernal ghost has all of the memories and passions that it had in life, allowing the player to utilize every Personality Trait of the character. Unless otherwise commanded, however, an Infernal ghost can only act on the evil Personality Traits, or use his passion to commit evil deeds. This could be a difficult role for a player, who cannot aid and assist his former allies directly, although a clever player could calculate methods to indirectly aid his companions. Being evil doesn’t necessarily dictate that the ghost isn’t civil, and he could maintain a degree of social interactivity with other magi. If you need to create an Infernal ghost, determine its Might the same way you would for a Divine ghost. You must then assign the ghost to one of the nine orders; the troupe will need to determine which order best suits the necromancer’s ghost, based on the character’s past and personality. A wicked magus might fall under the order of the Vessels of Iniquity, a necromancer trying to mimic God’s miracles — like creating a type of life — might become a Deluder, and an exceptionally violent necromancer might become a Fury. An Infernal ghost automatically receives the Obsession power (Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 31–33). Additional powers depend on the ghost’s order, including any additional Virtues and Flaws that order may include.''
''Faerie Ghosts''
''As mentioned, there is no such thing as a “faerie ghost,” only a faerie occupying the role of a ghost. Because faeries are near-perfect actors, this distinction is as immaterial as the faerie itself. A faerie ghost anchors itself around a particular story of the necromancer’s past, continually replaying the story for new audiences and hoping to pull participants into the yarn. More cognizant faeries, those who know that changing the story allows them to change, eventually aug''
''ment the favorite tale to allow for personal growth. Even though this is a faerie and not a ghost, it is still bound by the Hermetic enchantments that bind it to an animated corpse, provided that those enchantments are designed to target Faerie realm spirits. A faerie ghost’s Form should be Mentem, so the enchantments described previously will still work. Creating a faerie ghost player character is exactly the same as creating a faerie player character, and the player will need to use the rules provided in Realms of Power: Faerie. A player character faerie’s Might always starts at 5; ignore any rules given in this chapter for determining the Might of a ghost. The faerie must take the Flaw Intangible Flesh, but other Virtues and Flaws can be selected as desired. Pretenses and powers should be designed that aid the faerie in the particular tale it wants to re-enact, and the player may fo''
''cus on certain Abilities and spells that the necromancer had in life, which are now mirrored and amplified with faerie Pretenses and powers.''

==Life as a Living Corpse==

''The living corpse transformation completely changes the necromancer, with physical, mental, and spiritual consequences. Physically, he retains a semblance of life and may pass for one of the truly living. Not every living corpse looks like a rotting, shuffling dead man. Hermetic spells and magical powers can easily alter the appearance of the host, disguising putrefaction, coloring pallid flesh, and growing lost hair. A living corpse is mentally impaired; at best, he retains many of his memories but not all, a condition that leaves him emotionally temperamental, probably unhinged, and''
''potentially volatile. A living corpse has a single, intensified Personality Trait that overrides his thinking, coloring every decision he makes. Spiritually, a living corpse is lost. The connection that bound soul to spirit is severed, and however a soul and spirit are connected in a living man, they are forever separated in an undead man. Although it can no longer cast spells, a living corpse has magical powers, many of which copy favorite spells the character could cast during life. A former magus who becomes a living corpse might try participating in Hermetic society. Many wizards are secretive, sanctums are private places, and Temporary Twilights leave scars from Warping. A living corpse may not seem that weird when compared to other, older magi. If he is only seen occasionally, the living corpse might continue to fool his sodales into thinking he is alive. If he is careful, other magi will not''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Hermetic Interactions==

''A living corpse is rare; canonically, there isn’t a single example of one. Hence, there are no Hermetic legal provisions that pertain to an undead magus. The assumption that a magus is no longer covered by the Code of Hermes after he dies may be false. Those looking for a precedent will find one in the Rhine Tribunal, which does not recognize magi entering Final Twilight as dead, merely retired, and their sigils are still available (Guardians of the Forests, page 16). The Code of Hermes probably won’t change. Instead, each tribunal will have to make rules in its own Peripheral Code to govern a living corpse. House Tytalus excels in debating new additions to the Peripheral Code, and rules governing such debates can be found in Houses of Hermes: Societates (pages 90–92). Nothing stops a living corpse from arguing the case himself, adding another interesting story to the saga of a living corpse character. As a creature with Magic Might, an Aegis of the Hearth that the living corpse''
''did not participate in may prevent it from entering, depending on how powerful both the Aegis and the ghost are. While wards present a greater obstacle, a living corpse can be invited into an Aegis, after which its magic is uninhibited. If a magus becomes a living corpse after participating in an Aegis ritual, he is still considered a participating member and so can enter and exit the Aegis at will.''
''Changing Corpses''
''A player may decide that he wants his living corpse character to be contained in another corpse, rather than the one that currently houses him. Regardless of whether the ghost’s vessel is an interior organ or the entire corpse, this is not easy to do. A more powerful Rego Mentem binding spell needs to be cast, one that can overpower the spell currently imprisoning the ghost to the corpse, and bind the ghost to another vessel. Bound to a new vessel, the ghost''
''has to animate the new corpse, not a difficult task, but one that the ghost will need Powers to perform rather than spells. If successful, the ghost retains all the advantage of being a living corpse, but with a new body. Doing this does not cancel the effects maintained by the enchanted device that made the living corpse in the first place. Once the new binding spell ends, the ghost falls back under the magic that bound it to the original corpse. A living corpse can use this to his advantage. For example, he could hide his vessel, corpse, and enchanted devices in a distant location, and when he wants to travel, bind his ghost to another corpse. He is then bound to the new corpse for the duration of the new binding effect. Once this ends, the ghost is pulled back to the original vessel by the first binding spell. If this second corpse is damaged, breaking the vessel containing the ghost, the magic of the original enchanted device takes over and pulls the ghost back to the first vessel.''

|}
''know he is undead and may treat him as they always have. A living corpse gains a host of new advantages — primarily that he no longer has to fear the ravages of time. But new concerns become paramount, and just as many disadvantages come along with the benefits.''
''Advantages''
''The primary advantage of becoming a living corpse is eternal life. The living corpse does not eat, sleep, or even breathe, and is immune to aging. The player no longer has to make annual Aging rolls for the character. Affiliated with the Magic realm — or one of the other supernatural realms — a living corpse is immune to Warping and Final Twilight. As long as the magic that holds the living corpse together persists, the entity exists. Physical afflictions are a thing of the past. A living corpse is not as hindered by damage and disease as living things. Physical wounds still provide a penalty for physical activities, but the living corpse cannot be Incapacitated. He literally needs to be hacked to bits to be destroyed, but even dismemberment can be remedied. A disease still inflicts a Disease Penalty (see Art & Academe, page 45), but this only reduces physical rolls that the damaged corpse must make. Die rolls that the ghost half of the living corpse charac''
''ter makes are not affected, examples being Lore, Folk Ken, and other mental or social Ability rolls.  A living corpse can ignore the rules for Activities While Wounded (ArM5, page 178). If your troupe is using the Wealth and Poverty rules from Covenants (pages 56–70), a living corpse costs 0 points of inhabitants. Although still living in his sanctum and laboratory, a living corpse cannot undertake Hermetic lab work. His lab needs to be financially maintained if he is keeping up the façade of a living magus, though, using materials and supplies and making the covenant pay for them. This cost isn’t mandatory, but if the magus stops buying candles and parchment, the covenant’s staff and magi may become suspicious.''
''Disadvantages''
''The two biggest concerns of a living corpse are its vessel, which must be preserved and protected, and the enchanted device that holds the living corpse together. It is debatable which is more important, for the destruction of either causes the living corpse to disassemble. Constant protection of the two are the order of the day, and a living corpse who ignores sound precautions will not be a living corpse for long. For the combined spirit-corpse to properly function, the vessel must be kept whole. If the living corpse is unlucky''
''enough to have the entire corpse as the ghost’s vessel, he should shy from any activity that could damage the body. The ghost cannot voluntarily leave its vessel unless it has Powers that it can use to temporarily bind to a different vessel. If the vessel is substandard, attaching to a second is not easy. If the fleshy vessel is permanently destroyed, the character is merely the ghost of a magus. What happens next is up to the storyguide and the troupe, although in most cases the ghost will depart. A storyguide may allow a player to have a ghost character, but in most cases the ghost is whisked to the supernatural realm it is affiliated with, and removed from play. Protecting the enchanted item or items is equally as vital as protecting the vessel. If the item is destroyed, the body collapses, the ghost cannot control it, and the ghost is no longer bound to it. Perdo Vim magic that cancels the magic without destroying the device can also bring ruin upon the living corpse. As soon as the ghost is unbound from the vessel, either because the vessel is broken or the magic that connects the two ends, the ghost departs. If the Perdo Vim magic that canceled the enchanted item’s effects is not permanent, the enchanted item might activate its spell-like effects if the linking triggers’ conditions are met. However, the ghost is most likely not in proximity, and the enchanted item will not be able to target the ghost. Ghosts themselves are susceptible to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Destroying the Enchanted Device==

''Keeping the enchanted device that empowers the living corpse intact is of prime importance. According to the Damaged Goods rules in City & Guild, pages 77–79, an item that is physically damaged must make a Stress Check to avoid losing Damage Levels, which operate much like Fatigue Levels. Hermetically enchanted items have a bonus to this check, equal to the total number of magnitudes invested in them.''
''When the enchanted device is threatened with physical harm, the player rolls a Stress Check to avoid losing a Damage Level. Whatever actual shape the enchanted device takes, it has 5 Damage Levels, based on the Item Quality (Supernatural) and its Size (–5 to +1).''
''Stress Check: stress die + modifier vs. 15''
''A damaged enchanted device can be repaired only by a Verditius magus who knows the Minor House Mystery Virtue: Reforging Enchanted Items (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 125). It seems logical that a destroyed enchanted device, whose destruction signals the end of the living corpse character, could be put back together and, once so reforged, would again create the living corpse.''

|}
''Perdo Vim magic that destroys Might, and the living corpse is no exception. Might destroyed by Perdo Vim spells is permanently lost, and the living corpse also loses Qualities equal to the number of lost points, further decreasing its power. If the living corpse’s Magic Might is reduced to 0 through Perdo Vim spells, the ghost is permanently destroyed, erased from the supernatural fabric of Mythic Europe. Rego Vim and Rego Mentem spells are also problematic, although not as dangerous as Perdo Vim spells. Rego Vim and Rego Mentem wards prevent a living corpse from entering (or exiting), provided the spells are strong enough and carry enough Penetration to affect the living corpse. Because a living corpse is a combination of ghost and corpse, Mentem spells that summon and bind a ghost are also a threat. It is possible that a Rego Mentem spell more powerful than the one initially used to bind the spirit could control a living corpse. Death severs the magus-familiar''
''bond, and if the living corpse had a familiar prior to his transformation, he loses his connection to the beast. If the familiar survives the sundering of the bond at the magus’ death, which it may not, its powers may diminish. Furthermore, it will inherently loathe the magus’ ghost.''
''A story could revolve around a vengeful familiar seeking a player character living corpse’s destruction. Advancing Abilities, increasing Magic Might, and learning new powers are difficult. Like other magical creatures, it must undergo a transformation to learn new things (Realms of Power: Magic, page 52), and even then, the only new things it can learn must be represented as Magical Qualities.''

==A Necromantic Miscellany==

''A Hermetic wizard’s necromantic interests will likely spill over into other areas tangental to summoning ghosts and animating corpses, and it is reasonable to assume that he will have a collection of spells and magic items pertaining to this predilection.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Created Corpse==

''Characteristics: Int n/a, Per n/a, Pre n/a, Com n/a, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +3 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (fist)''
''Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: The appearance of a newly created corpse is up to the magus. It could appear as a leathery, bloated corpse, or as fresh as a sleeping man.''
''A magically created corpse has the same stats as a revenant (Realms of Power: Magic, page 98), minus Magic Might, Mental Characteristics, Virtues & Flaws, Magical Qualities & Inferiorities, Powers, and Vis.''

==Animated Custos==

''Characteristics: Int n/a, Per n/a, Pre n/a, Com n/a, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Covenfolk; Affinity with Single Weapon, Puissant Single Weapon, Warrior; Afflicted Tongue (stammer), Obsessed, Poor Communication Combat: Axe & Heater Shield: Init –1, Attack +16, Defense +14, Damage +7 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore 3 (warriors), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 4 (in combat), Bargain 2 (weapons), Bows 1 (short bow), Brawl 5 (dodging), Carouse 1 (drinking), Living''
''Language 5 (talking about fighting), Singe Weapon 7+2 (Heater Shield) Equipment: axe, heater shield, full scale armor Encumbrance: 3 (4) Appearance: A day spent dead makes a telling difference. The corpse is pallid and slightly bloated, although this might not be instantly apparent when he is wearing his armor. His movements are stiff and jerky.''
''The animated custos is an example of a slain grog character, animated to continue serving the magus. Based on the Specialist grog template, a common sample shield grog (ArM5, page 21), the example character has lain dead for an entire day before being animated. Without preservation magic, putrefaction will continue to reduce the corpse’s physical Characteristics.''

|}

==Hermetic Projects Creating and Animating Corpses==

''Creating a human corpse and animating it is easy and hardly needs a specialist magus. Those who do specialize in necromantic magic may desire more complex spells, and there are a variety of useful spells available. The standard spell to create a corpse is a level 20 Creo Corpus ritual. The standard''
''spell to control a corpse is a level 25 Rego Corpus spell. Variations of these might include some of the following examples:''
''Create a Human Corpse''
''CrCo 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This ritual creates a human corpse. The lowest level a ritual spell can be is 20. (Base 5, +1 Touch)''
''Required Lab Total: 1 season (40), 2 seasons (30), 3 seasons (27), 4 seasons (25)''
''Create a Dead Turb''
''CrCo 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual This ritual creates ten human corpses. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (40), 2 seasons (30), 3 seasons (27), 4 seasons (25)''
''Control the Dead Turb''
''ReCo 40 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group A group of ten corpses animate and follow the caster’s verbal commands. Individual commands cannot be issued to a particular member of the group; every corpse follows the caster’s command. While they each perform the same task, they are not considered a trained group for combat purposes. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (80), 2 seasons (60), 3 seasons (54), 4 seasons (50)''
''Conjure a Dead Army''
''CrCo 25 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual This ritual creates 100 corpses. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 for larger group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32)''
''Control the Dead Army''
''ReCo 45 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group This spell causes 100 corpses to animate and follow the caster’s verbal commands. Individual commands cannot be issued to a particular member of the group; every corpse follows the caster’s command. While''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Created Revenant==

''A created revenant has the same stats as a revenant found in the field. Add the following information to the stats for the Created Corpse.''
''Magic Might: 9 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int –2, Per –2, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +3, Sta +31, Dex +1, Qik 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human Magic Qualities & Inferiorities: Greater Power; No Fatigue; Improved Soak (x4); Baneful Circumstances (in daylight) Personality Traits: Vengeful +6 Combat:''
''Fist: Init 0, Attack +7, Defense +4, Damage +5 Soak: +11 Fatigue Levels: None Powers: Breath of Corruption, 1 point, Init +2, Auram. The revenant’s foul breathe can infect a person within 2 paces with a disease (Ease Factor 9 effect as Medium Wound). Rise from the Grave, 1 point, Init –, Terram. The revenant can cause the earth over its grave to open for one Diameter so it may enter or leave. The ground then seals, leaving no trace of the revenant’s passing. Vis: 2 Corpus in eyes.''

==A Walking Colossus==

''A colossus is simply a giant corpse, which uses the same stats as a regular animated corpse, adjusted for its increased size.''
''Characteristics: Int n/a, Per n/a, Pre n/a, Com n/a, Str +11, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –4 Size: +4 Combat: Fist: Init –10, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +11 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (fist)''
''The colossus is not a subtle creation. Standing over 15 feet tall and weighing around two tons, it will be difficult not to notice it. A magus who wishes to keep his necromantic proclivities secret should opt for another type of corpse minion. An egotistical necromancer need not worry about such things.''

|}
''they each perform the same task, they are not considered a trained group for combat purposes. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +1 for larger group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (90), 2 seasons (68), 3 seasons (60), 4 seasons (57)''
''Conjure the Horde of the Dead''
''CrCo 30 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This ritual creates 1,000 corpses. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +2 for larger group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38)''
''Control the Dead Army''
''ReCo 50 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group This spell causes 1,000 corpses to animate and follow the caster’s verbal commands. Individual commands cannot be issued to a particular member of the group; every corpse follows the caster’s command. While they each perform the same task, they are not considered a trained group for combat purposes. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +2 for larger group) Required Lab Total: 1 season (100), 2 seasons (75), 3 seasons (67), 4 seasons (63)''
''Conjure the Walking Dead''
''CrCo 50 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual Req: Auram, Terram, Vim This ritual creates a revenant — one of the magical walking dead. Different from an animated corpse, a revenant is a malefic creature with a Magic Might of 9. While it is lacking intelligence, a revenant possesses a violent personality and, if not immediately magically controlled, it attacks''
''the nearest living creature. The Auram and Terram requisites are necessary for instilling the revenant’s magic powers. (Base 45, +1 Touch) Base Level Interpretation: A level 10 Creo Animal spell creates the corpse of a mundane animal, while a base level 5 Creo Corpus spell creates a mundane human corpse. A level 50 Creo Animal spell will create a magical beast, meaning that a level 45 Creo Corpus spell will create a magical human. Required Lab Total: 1 season (100), 2 seasons (75), 3 seasons (67), 4 seasons (63)''
''Conjure the Colossus''
''CrCo 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This ritual creates a huge human corpse of Size +4. It is similar to a regular conjured corpse in every way except size. Spells designed to control a colossus must also take into account its larger Size.''
''(Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Size increase, min level 20 for a Ritual) Required Lab Total: 1 season (40), 2 seasons (30), 3 seasons (27), 4 seasons (25)''
''Awaken the Colossus''
''ReCo 35 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind This spells causes the Size +4 colossus corpse to animate and follow the caster’s verbal commands. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +1 Size increase) Required Lab Total: 1 season (70), 2 seasons (53), 3 seasons (47), 4 seasons (44)''

==Hermetic Projects Grave Hounds==

''Dogs are popular companions and guardians. But living dogs must be fed and maintained, and shy from a Gifted magus. Dead dogs provide similar services without daily upkeep, or balking at a magus’ Gift.''
''The Collar of Charon''
''ReAn 29 Pen: 0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This effect animates a dead animal. The animal can be Size +1 or smaller.''
''(Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 frequency, +3 environmental trigger) Base Level Interpretation: Rego Corpus base level 10 animates a corpse. Required Lab Total: 1 season (58), 2 seasons (44), 3 seasons (39), 4 seasons (37)''
''The Wand of Commanding Charon’s Pack''
''ReAn 39 Pen: 0, 12 uses per day R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind When pointed at an animal and the command word spoken, the animal will follow the orders of the wielder. Once so enchanted, the animal will follow the commands of the wielder until the effect expires. Multiple animals may be commanded individually or as a group, at the discretion of the wielder. While designed to allow the wielder to command dead dogs, animated by Collars of Charon, the wand affects living beasts just as easily. (Base 15, +2 Voice, +2 Sun; +4 frequency) Required Lab Total: 1 season (78), 2 seasons (59), 3 seasons (52), 4 seasons (49)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Grave Hound==

''Despite its name, a grave hound is simply a dead dog animated by Hermetic magic. A grave hound is not a magical beast and does not have a Might score or powers. Because the grave hound is not a Magical Animal but merely an animated corpse, it does not have mental Characteristics.  Its physical Characteristics and Abilities assume that it is either recently dead or has been magically preserved from putrefaction. As a dead thing, a dead dog does not have Fatigue Levels. Similar to revenants, a dead dog cannot be Incapacitated.''
''Characteristics:  Cun n/a, Per n/a, Pre n/a, Com n/a, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0''
''Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Sharp Ears, Reckless Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Reckless +3, Savage +3 Reputations: Loyal 2 (local) Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), – 5 (11–15), –5 (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (distance running), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Brawl 3 (bite), Hunt 4 (track by scent) Appearance: Depending on how long the dog has been dead, it looks very much like a live dog. Closer inspection will reveal its glassy, opaque eyes and fetid breath.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
