''One of the most important and profitable industries across Mythic Europe is shipbuilding. Whether for trade, transport, or war, merchants and princes alike need ships. Ships are vital to the flow of goods and wealth across Mythic Europe, to say nothing of armies and pilgrims. Given the importance of ships, and the profit to be made in their construction, it is not unusual for Hermetic magi to become involved in the trade. Working shipyards can be used as sources of income (Covenants, page 61), and this makes owning and running shipyards attractive to covenants located on appropriate sites. The covenant of Oculus Septentrionalis in the Rhine Tribunal is home to Marcus Navicularius of House Verditius. He is the most accomplished shipwright in Lübeck and has earned his fortune by selling enchanted ships to other covenants. Their bitter rivals at the covenant of Waddenzee also operate a number of magical vessels and have their own shipwright, though his power is far from Hermetic. Additionally, Memnos of Verditius maintains a working shipyard in the Tribunal of Thebes. He has already produced the four enchanted vessels upon which the covenant of Favonius has been founded, and is currently planning the fifth. This chapter presents the founding of an Hermetic shipyard and the building of its first vessel, The Hermes. It takes the project through from start to finish: finding the best location, constructing the basic laboratory, expanding it out to encompass the shipyard, laying The Hermes’ keel, and enchanting the completed vessel. The construction of the shipyard and all the effects enchanted into the ship use only standard Hermetic magic; no Mysteries or restricted Virtues''
''are required. The laboratory rules from the Covenants supplement are used extensively, but the relevant sections are referenced and, where appropriate, the laboratory totals for all activities are provided. As this is a project inspired by an existing mundane craft, City & Guild provides good background information and additional rules that you may find useful. But importantly, while there is an obvious attraction for Verditius magi, magi of all Houses can achieve these enchantments.''

==Medieval Ships and Shipbuilding==

''The City & Guild supplement provides more information on using ships in your''
''saga, but the following briefly describes some of the numerous vessels found across Mythic Europe. River barges are flat-bottomed, lowdraft vessels designed to navigate streams and rivers. Barges generally have a single deck on which cargo is stacked. The hulk is a blocky vessel, usually as wide as it is tall, again designed for inland waterways, with limited capacity for coastal or seagoing travel. The cog is a high-sided vessel, mounted on a straight keel and often with a flat bottom designed to settle when the tide recedes. Cogs have a flat stern and it is becoming more common for them to be steered through a central rudder. These vessels are the primary merchant ship of the northern seas. Smaller than the cog, the buss is a round-bodied seagoing vessel, usually put to carrying cargo, though they''

[|

==Ship Damage==

''City & Guild provides rules for damage that objects, ships included, can take before breaking (page 77).  In brief, the item has a number of Base Damage Levels determined by its quality. This number is multiplied by a modifier determined by its size. For ships, this is listed in the Ship Sizes and Capacity table.''
''Quality Base Dam Lvl Shoddy 1 Standard 2 Superior 3 Excellent 4 Supernatural * 5''
''* 	 Wondrous Items as in City & Guild.''
''Ships normally only take damage from storms, fire, naval combat, and magical attacks. In addition, enchanted items, ships included, gain a bonus to any Stress Checks equal to the magnitude of all invested effects. These things combined make enchanted ships particularly hardy. If you are not using the City & Guild sourcebook, it is enough to remember that enchanted devices are tougher than their mundane counterparts, and the magic invested in them continues to function until the device is completely broken.''

|]
''make good fishing boats. Variations on the cog can be found in every sea across Mythic Europe. The nef fills the same role''
''as the cog and is commonly used in the Mediterranean. This ship has lateen sails and is carvel-built, with the hull planks''
''laying flush against each other. Though outdated by the 13th century, the dromon is a long-keeled warship powered by both oar and lateen sail. Designed for speed, the dromon houses a hundred oarsmen arranged in two banks of 25 oars on each side. In addition, the dromon carries armed marines as well as engines to launch stones, arrows, and Greek fire into enemy vessels. The galley is also still in use, especially in Byzantine waters, and like the dromon carries both oarsmen and sails. Unlike the dromon, the galley is a cargo ship with little adaptation to fighting at sea. The knarr is an open Scandinavian vessel used for long Atlantic voyages, typically taking passengers and livestock to Iceland and Greenland. The knarr travels under sail and is steered through a steering oar at the rear of the ship. With little or no cover, travel in a knarr, especially to cold northern destinations, is a harsh experience.''

[|

==Ship Sizes and Capacity==

''Though there are some variations, given the range of sizes in which some of these ships can be built, the table that follows presents a guide to the size, capacity, crew, cost, and Damage Level Modifier of some typical ships.''
''Size Capacity Crew Cost Dam Example +3 1 ton 2 1/5 pound 2 Small river ferry +3 8 tons 2 2 pounds 2 Lighter +4 20 tons 3 4 pounds 2 River barge +5 20 tons 8 8 pounds 2 Coastal buss, knarr, small cog +6 100 tons 12 40 pounds 3 Medium cog, large nef +7 240 tons 18 100 pounds 3 Large merchant cog +8 800 tons 150 320 pounds 3 Mediterranean grain barge +9 1200 tons 200 600 pounds 4 Large Mediterranean grain barge''
''Lateen-rigged ships typically require larger crews than square-rigged ships, adding half as many crew again to the numbers listed earlier. The grain barges described earlier are only found in the Mediterranean and already have the larger crews factored into their descriptions.''

|]
''Lighters are small vessels designed to take goods from larger ships unable to dock at the quayside. They are typically around 25 feet long and carry around eight tons of cargo.''

==The Medieval Shipwright==

''Mundane shipwrights are educated men, able to read and write at least their vernacular language and, more than likely, Latin. They are highly skilled in designing boats and ships and understanding the qualities and properties of materials, and they possess the leadership qualities needed to lead a team of craftsmen and laborers for seasons at a time. The shipwright rarely builds the ship himself, but rather designs the vessel and leads the team of craftsmen who undertake the construction on his behalf. A shipyard is a large area of land with direct access to a significant waterway, providing space for a range of craftsmen to ply their trade in the building, repair, and decommissioning of ships and boats. Larger yards have dedicated docks and enclosed buildings within which vessels can be worked on. But for the most part, shipyards tend to be a collection of workshops arranged around a series of slipways, allowing vessels to be launched into and/or pulled from the water. Shipyards are busy with carpenters shaping keels, planks, and strakes; blacksmiths sharpening tools and making nails and fittings; and laborers putting the parts together. There are also likely to be specialist facilities for the making of rope and sails. Ropes are generally made in long buildings called ropewalks, though long stretches of open road are also used, where the hemp fibers are spun and wound together to form ropes of different lengths and weights. Sailmaking is another highly specialized trade and is usually carried out in sail lofts.''

==Ship Construction==

''There are two types of ship construction: clinker-built and carvel-built. Clinker-built ships have hulls constructed with overlapping strakes, or planks. Clinker-built hulls are able to flex along the length of the vessel, the better to cope with the rough northern waters where they are more common. Carvel-built''
''ships are more common in the calmer southern waters, and are constructed with the strakes butting against each other, forming a smooth-sided hull. They are generally stronger than clinker-built vessels, allowing for larger ships, but tend to be slower in the water. Ship builders generally treat the hull as one entity and any upper works, such as fore and aft towers or castles, as sepa''

[|

==Suggested Shipwright Virtues and Abilities==

''A mundane shipwright character will need certain academic and professional abilities. The Vernacular Eduction Minor General Virtue (City & Guild, page 109) can be taken, as this grants access to Academic Abilities. It also gives the character 50 additional experience points to be spent on academic and professional abilities. The description of the virtue suggests Profession Merchant, but this can be changed to Profession Shipwright. The points can also be spent on an Organization Lore ability, likely for any guild to which the shipwright belongs. The Guild Master Minor Social Virtue (City & Guild, page 53) also grants access to Academic Abilities and represents the character’s freedom to practice his profession under his own name and employ journeymen in his team. Without at least the rank of master, the shipwright will fall afoul of the guild if he openly conducts his trade. While the business of the shipwright involves large sums of money passing through his hands, the shipwright is as likely to be rich or poor as any other profession, and the Wealthy virtue and Poor flaw can be taken to represent his financial situation. The core abilities the shipwright needs are: Latin, Artes Liberales, Profession: Shipwright, Leadership, Organization Lore: Shipwright Guild, and Bargain. This gives him the learning that he needs, his proficiency in designing and building ships, and the ability to manage his team, suppliers, and customers.''
''Hermetic Shipwright''
''Of the standard Virtues open to Hermetic magi, affinities and puissance with both Magic Theory and Finesse give extra weight to the shipwright’s ability to prepare ships for enchantment and to work Creo rituals and Rego craft magic. And a Major Magical Focus with ships benefits the magus with any effects enchanted into his magical vessels. The Mysteries, either Cult or House, provide useful additional Virtues. Spell Binding (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 27), allows the magus to bind both a spell and a spirit into a container or vessel, the spirit extending and maintaining the spell indefinitely. Philosophic Alchemy (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 41) allows the magus to extract vis directly into items and reduce the number of pawns needed to fully prepare the device for enchantment. And of course, magi of House Verditius use their Craft Abilities to reduce the pawns they must use to prepare devices for enchantment, which allows them to enchant potentially very large devices. Note that magi of House Verditius gain a bonus from their Craft Abilities, not Profession. A Verditius shipwright will need both Craft: Carpenter and Profession: Shipwright. The first represents his hands-on crafting of the enchanted vessels, allowing him to work his magic into the timbers, and the second represents the managing of the workforce necessary to build ships under his guidance.''

|]
''rate constructions. Magi can do the same within their laboratory work, treating a ship with a rear castle as a compound device.''

==Centers of Shipbuilding==

''Every nation with a coastline has a shipbuilding industry, and even landlocked kingdoms need boats for use on navigable waterways. Portsmouth, Small Hythe on the river Rother, and London are key shipbuilding centers in the Stonehenge Tribunal, with the Thames home to many shipyards, large and small. Lübeck, Bremen, and Antwerp are prominent in the Rhine, while the wider Bruges area and Barfleur support shipbuilding in the Normandy Tribunal. The major communes of Genoa, Pisa, and Venice in the Roman Tribunal own shipyards dedicated to building and maintaining commune ships, as well as private enterprise. Those in Genoa and Pisa are kept busy by the cities’ mutual antipathy and near-constant state of war. It was the Venetian shipyards that supplied the Fourth Crusade with the ships it needed to transport thousands of men to the Holy Land. Further afield, shipyards can be found in any coastal city engaged in trade, mostly undertaking repair and maintenance work on visiting merchant vessels, such as the important shipbuilding port of Koločep on the Dalmatian coast. Byzantium in particular, commanding a large coastal domain, is home to many shipbuilding ports.''

==Founding the Shipyard==

''In Mythic Europe, it is unlikely that a magus, or even a covenant, can establish a shipyard without the involvement or even permission of certain mundanes, not least the local guild of shipwrights. Swearing an oath to a guild leaves a magus open to accusations of putting himself at the service of mundane powers. A magus swearing such an oath to a guild would be relying on Tribunal support to avoid punishment if discovered, so it is more likely that a magus would work through a proxy. This proxy would perhaps be the official face of the shipyard and act as the mundane conduit through which the Hermetic shipwright would sell his services. This is particularly apt for magi of House Verditius where the mundane shipwright can act as either a forge-companion, contributing to the construction of ships, or a venditor procuring contracts for his magus (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 135–136).''

==Finding the Location==

''Shipyards need to be located on major waterways: not necessarily on the coast, but on rivers deep and wide enough to support ships. They are often located alongside ports and harbors, as they tend to share a common infrastructure and have similar needs. The ideal location provides land for a dry dock that is protected from the vagaries of storm and tide, but with easy and''
''direct access to the water. Shipbuilding is a craft that is both resource and labor intensive, and so relies upon strong supply lines. Huge quantities of wood, iron, canvas, rope, and other materials are needed. In addition, the workforce needs to be housed, fed, entertained, and have their spiritual well-being tended to. This ensures that shipbuilding is located at, or is the catalyst for, large population centers. As this is a Hermetic shipyard, a Magical aura is advantageous. Magical auras are usually found away from the encroaching influence of man. They are usually sites of secluded natural beauty and primal forces, and often home to supernatural entities. Perhaps more importantly, another member of the Order is likely to have a claim over them. And even if the land can be secured, can the magus claim the whole area as his sanctum? After all, his laboratory will cover the whole shipyard in time, and Tribunals often take a dim view of magi stepping outside what might be considered normal. Regardless, the following spells may assist in preparing or improving a location.''
''A Season’s Inning''
''ReTe(Aq) 25 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Boundary, Ritual Some waterways, especially those near estuaries, are surrounded by marshland. However, there are techniques for building up and draining the land. This can take many seasons of work, with a large team of laborers working in very difficult conditions. The draining of marshland through the digging of drainage channels and the building of dykes is known as inning. This ritual allows the magus to drain an area 300 by 300 paces to the point that it is dry and stable, as though a season had been spent inning the land. The Aquam requisite is used to move the standing water outside the spell boundary, which makes the inning work easier than normal. This spell uses the rules for Rego Craft Magic (Covenants, page 49) and as such the''

[|

==Story Seed: Vendetta==

''A rival Verditius declares vendetta against the Hermetic shipwright, and makes it known that the shipwright’s venditor will die before the setting of the next full moon. Is this an idle threat, or has the Verditius already set his plans in''
''motion? The magus must keep his friend alive against an unknown threat that is perhaps closer than he dares think. See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 115, for more information on the the culture of vendetta within House Verditius.''

|]
''magus must make a Perception + Finesse roll to determine the success and quality of his work. In this case, the Ease Factor is 15 (base 9 + 6 for a season’s work). Failure means that, while the drainage ditches may have been dug, they are either too shallow or too few to drain the land. If left, the land is likely to remain waterlogged and building on it is impossible. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +4 Boundary, +1 Size, +1 Aquam requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32)''
''Follow the Route I Command''
''ReTe 25 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part This spell carves a new channel in the ground with both ends connected to an existing waterway. As the spell completes, the water flushes into this new section and the spoil from the work starts to fill the old channel. The magus must be touching the ground that he wants the new channel to pass through. The movement of a large amount of earth, while time-consuming, requires little skill. A Perception + Finesse roll against Ease Factor 12 is needed. Failure means that the channel is incomplete, or the old route is still flooded. If the Finesse roll botches, the work appears complete but the land is now liable to flooding, causing damage to crops and homes alike. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +3 size, +1 to affect stone) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32)''
''A Mightier Channel''
''PeTe 25 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part On casting this spell while touching the river bank, the river is dredged, deepening and widening it as required by the casting magus. A single casting is enough to prepare a small waterway to take a large''
''river barge, or a larger waterway to take a buss or cog. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Part; +3 size, +1 to affect stone) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32)''

==Remote Shipyards==

''Some magi or covenants may choose to build or enchant a ship, either without a shipyard or with a shipyard built some''
''way distant from a waterway. While this makes things more complicated, Hermetic magic can overcome most difficulties. There are many reasons for building ships away from rivers and the sea. For one, it allows the construction work to be carried out unseen by curious eyes, and for another, the magus is less restricted with regards to Magical auras. A secluded lake allows the Hermetic shipwright to test the boats he makes, and there are almost certainly streams and rivers that drain the lake that can be''

[|

==Story Seeds for Finding a Shipyard Location==

''The following story seeds may be useful when looking to secure a  location for a shipyard.''
''Mundane Title''
''Having found the ideal location, the Hermetic shipwright and his agents must secure title to the land. But the monastery that owns the land has discovered the magical truth behind the approach and are now reluctant to sell. The shipwright must find a way to convince the monks of his good character.''
''Hermetic Negotiation''
''The shipyard’s future site comes with only one small problem: a vis source contested by two rival covenants. How can the shipwright secure the land without making powerful enemies? Does he petition to join one or other of the covenants, challenge for rights over the site, or look for political leverage to use at Tribunal?''
''A Supernatural Presence''
''The Magic aura is home to a small water dragon, no larger than a hound, that lives and hunts in this stretch of water. It poses little threat to the magus or his shipyard. It could perhaps make''
''an interesting subject for a magical menagerie, or a familiar for an ambitious Flambeau. It could be bound to some device by a skilled Verditius, or even put to death with little effort and its vis taken. But then its mother awakens from her centuries-long sleep. What is her reaction to how the magus has treated her child?''
''The Lovers Parted''
''The magus re-routes the river in a mastery of magic over nature. But in the following weeks, the covenfolk report hearing the sounds of a ghostly weeping coming from beyond the river’s new course. What is it that weeps so mournfully, and why? As the sadness spreads across the land, can the magus be persuaded to mend a broken heart at the cost of changing his own plans?''
''The Heir, Apparently''
''As the spell to dredge the river completes its work, a body bubbles to the surface. It is the remains of a nobleman, unlawfully slain so that his inheritance passes to a treacherous usurper. Do the magi lay the now-awakened spirit to rest, help it find and confront its murderer, or simply send it on its way to do its own vengeful bidding?''

|]
''used to move the vessels. But while such facilities are less obvious than those by the sea, they still draw at least mundane attention. It is possible to build a shipyard deep within a forest, which allows easy access to raw materials, while being easy to protect by redirecting unwanted visitors. Other magi may choose to site their shipyard high in the mountains, making construction difficult but almost guaranteeing secrecy. Shipyards that have no easy access to rivers or the sea, or even capable portage routes, need enchantments to launch their ships. A slipway, like the example device that follows, can be enchanted to transport the fully-formed ship and its crew from the site of its construction to any waterway to which the device has an arcane connection. Note that alternatives, such as using the common Hermes Portal ritual, cost 30 pawns of vis to establish a connection for just a year.''
''The Distant Slipway''
''This slipway, formed of two long wooden runners secured into the ground and spanned by sleepers angled to take and support a hull, is first prepared by soaking the wooden structure in water from a target distant waterway and processing it with a pawn of vis in order to fix the arcane connection. This takes a dedicated season, after which the device can be opened for enchantment. The large wooden structure provides a capacity of (2x5) 10 pawns. This is sufficient for the version represented here but other parts of the device, such iron fastenings or runners, provide additional capacity. The arcane connection is fixed into this device for simplicity, as it is designed to send ships to a single remote location, though this detail of the device can, of course, be changed.''
''Sight of the Distant Slipway In(Cr)Im 35 Pen: +0, 1/day R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Special This effect collects sight and sound from the target arcane connection and projects these senses around the lower end of the slipway, making it appear that the slipway extends out into the remote location. Once activated, the illusion is maintained by the device until canceled. This effect is similar to the commonly known spell Summoning the Distant Image, with an additional Creo requisite to create the appropriate species around the device. This device effect is required to survey the site before launching the ship to the remote location. This helps to avoid the catastrophic accidents that could occur when blindly pushing several tons of ship into the remote sea. (Base 2, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration, +2 Special based on Room, +1 Creo requisite; +5 device maintains concentration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (70), 2 seasons (53), 3 seasons (47), 4 seasons (44)''
''Launch the Distant Vessel ReHe (AnAqCoTe) 55 Pen: +0, 1/day R:Touch, D:Momentary, T:Structure This effect transports the target vessel, launched down the slipway, to the distant waterway associated with the arcane connection bound into this device. Although the intent of the effect is to transport the ship, the effect design is based on the Rego Corpus guideline to transport an individual to a location identified through an Arcane Connection. This base effect is used by analogy to affect the target ship, represented by the Structure target. Any crew present on board are simply taken with the ship when it is transported thanks to the free requisites. This particular device effect does not have Penetration built in, though others might to allow''

[|

==The Resting Place of Noah’s Ark==

''The resting place of the biblical Ark, built by Noah to God’s design, is almost certainly the site of an Empyreal aura (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 12). While this would normally hamper the use of magic, it may be within God’s choosing that the site''
''itself provides a bonus to ship-based magic, and far from suppressing magic, may support it instead. If the Ark itself can be found, then its cedar timbers may provide shape and material bonuses for shipbuilding far in excess of natural wood.''

|]
''ships containing bound spirits or other resident supernatural entities to be transported. Vessels larger than a medium-sized cog will also need a different launch with an additional +1 magnitude to account for the ship’s size. (Base 35, +1 Touch, +3 Structure) Required Lab Total: 1 season (110), 2 seasons (83), 3 seasons (74), 4 seasons (69)''
''The Distant Drydock''
''A similar device can be enchanted and installed at the waterway to allow ships to be sent back to the remote shipyard. The effects are the same, providing a view of the distant slipway and transporting the vessel and its crew, though the arcane connections and triggering actions are different and the ship is deposited on the slipway rather than in the water.''

==Recruiting and Training a Team==

''As has been discussed, a magus needs to recruit or attract skilled craftsmen and laborers to his venture. Stories can be told that chart the assembling of his team, perhaps having to battle the fear and distrust that come with The Gift, or offering a skilled journeyman a wondrous alternative to a harsh master.''

==Building Out the Laboratory==

''Devices need to be enchanted within a Hermetic laboratory; there are specialist tools to be used, environments to be controlled, and magical forces to be channeled. But the average Hermetic laboratory is not designed to contain large-scale projects such as the building of ships. This project assumes that the ship’s keel and/or hull is the focus for the enchantment activity, and if the magus''
''is going to enchant the ship itself, the laboratory needs to contain the entire ship and is therefore best constructed as a boat yard. The Hermetic shipwright will need a laboratory modeled after a mundane shipyard. This means one or more central work sheds in which vessels can be constructed or repaired; several outer workshops for carpenters, blacksmiths, and other tradesmen; and storehouses. The site also needs to be on a significant waterway, either the coast or a major river to allow ships to be hauled to and from the main work sheds. At any one time, a dozen or more tradesmen will be within the laboratory itself,''
''given that it is in effect a large workshop, and provision needs to be made for this activity. A gallery allows the magus both to take an overview of the construction work and show clients his work. All of this makes the laboratory far larger than is normal for a Hermetic magus, susceptible to the elements, and inherently unsafe. A host of enchanted tools and features are needed to ensure the safety of the workforce and the laboratory itself. Further enchantments make the work of the shipwright and his crew easier and quicker. A magus who builds a Hermetic shipyard is likely to either maintain a separate sanctum or simply be realistic about the status''

[|

==Team Training Story Seed: Suspicious Minds==

''One of the shipwright’s workforce becomes unsettled by the frequent displays of magic in his new workplace, and approaches the Church to tell of what he’s seen. An inquisitive priest and his entourage soon visit the shipyard,''
''suspicion on their minds, and condemnation not far behind. Can the magus hide the traces of magic he’s worked hard to put in place, pass the priest’s inspection, and root out the snitch in the end?''

==Laboratory Story Seeds: Far and Wide==

''The construction of the shipyard itself presents opportunities to run stories. The buildings that will contain the magical power to be invested in the boats may require special components, such as wood from a magical tree. The shipyard itself may be plagued by faeries or demons during and after its founding who can perhaps see some ill or good that might come from the shipyard in the future.''
''Hermetic interest will also be piqued and a magus with the facilities to enchant large devices will draw customers from across his Tribunal and beyond. Covenants and mundanes alike who desire their own magical ships will come calling, or rival Hermetic shipwrights (such as those mentioned in Guardians of the Forests) may attempt to sabotage the shipyard and the magus’ business.''

|]
''of his sprawling laboratory. This laboratory has the Missing Sanctum Marker flaw, as even if the magus was careful to display the sign somewhere in the yard, it can easily be missed. Note: Covenants, page 109, states that a Hermetic laboratory must occupy a single chamber. But in this case, the shipyard encompasses one or more central work sheds and a number of outbuildings. This is represented by the Exposed free structure flaw.''
''Establish the Basic Laboratory''
''A magus can establish a basic Hermetic laboratory by spending two dedicated seasons setting up the workspace. A standard laboratory has no intrinsic virtues or flaws, and characteristics of 0. The default size for a laboratory is a space of 500 square feet housed in a single chamber protected from the elements. But the physical size of the laboratory can be chosen freely when the laboratory is first constructed. The laboratory size chart (Covenants, page 110) shows that a laboratory of size +6 provides 2000 square feet of space, a good size for a shipyard. Building a laboratory in the form of a shipyard naturally grants a number of Virtues and Flaws, due to the exposed nature of the space, the proximity to water, and the large area it occupies.''
''After two seasons of preparing the site and providing laboratory equipment, costing 15 pounds of silver, the new laboratory has the following statistics and requires 3 pounds per year to maintain in good order. The base cost will be used throughout, though heavy usage may increase this. The upkeep sections in Covenants, pages 64 and 111, explain these costs.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Spacious; Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker, Empty x3, Damp Characteristics: Size +6 (+1), Refinement 0, General Quality 0, Upkeep +2, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health –6, Aesthetics –5 Specializations: +1 Auram, +1 Aquam''
''Equipping the Shipyard''
''With the infrastructure now complete, the magus must equip the many areas of the shipyard. This is represented through acquiring the Greater Expansion Major Outfitting Virtue. Major Virtues take two seasons to gain and the magus spends this time overseeing the construction of outbuildings and providing equipment. All this activity costs 18 pounds of silver to complete. At the end of this period, the laboratory has the following statistics and requires 21 pounds per year to maintain in''
''good order. The activity has also removed the Empty flaws that the laboratory had upon its founding. The Greater Expansion also provides two points of specializations, which are used to give a +2 bonus to Ships, used for the enchantment of ships and sailing paraphernalia and the designing of spells concerned with ships and sailing.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Expansion, Spacious; Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker, Damp, Empty Characteristics: Size +6 (+4), Refinement 0, General Quality +2, Upkeep +6, Safety –3, Warping 0, Health –4, Aesthetics –2 Specializations: +2 Ships, +1 Aquam, +1 Auram''
''At this point, if not before, the purpose behind the construction will become clear. There is little that can be done to disguise a shipyard, and the local shipwrights’ guild will become very interested in anyone trying to operate as a shipwright outside of their authority. The Hermetic shipwright now finds that he needs to make an accommodation with the guild in order to operate. The guild presses for the magus to join, under oath, and submit to all rules and conditions set by the guild. Refusal sees the guild use all its power to prevent the magus doing business. The magus may''

[|

==More on Laboratories==

''Further Laboratory Options''
''Rather than enchanting the ship’s hull, variations might see the ship’s mast, sails, or even the ropes used to rig the ship being used to carry the enchantments. These options might influence the type of laboratory that gets created. If the magic is to be contained in the rigging, then the laboratory may be constructed as a rope walk (the long shed housing the ropemakers and their tools), or as a sail loft if the sails themselves are enchanted. But this is down to''
''the style of the individual magus and this project assumes him to be a fully-fledged shipwright.''
''Laboratory Rules''
''The Covenants supplement provides full rules on designing and modifying laboratories. In short, laboratories have a series of Characteristics, Virtues, and Flaws. The characteristics determine how large the laboratory is, how aesthetically pleasing it is, how much it costs''
''to maintain, and what impact it has on the health of the magus. The laboratory also provides a number of specialties: bonuses to certain Arts or activities. These are usually gained through taking Virtues. Virtues are paid for through spending time (one season for a Minor Virtue, two for a Major Virtue), money, and the acquisition of Flaws to balance the new virtue. The steps described as follows provide enough information for the magus to follow the project and build an Hermetic shipyard.''

|]
''see a parallel with the Order’s own rarelyused “join or die” mantra, and there is an opportunity to run such events alongside each other during your saga.''
''Improving the Working Conditions''
''Being so close to water the laboratory is continually damp and decidedly unhealthy. The following item can help, and as the effect has more than 20 levels, it can be used to improve the laboratory’s Health characteristic by +1.''
''The Soak ReAq 24 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Structure This wooden sewer grate about the size of a large shield is installed in the deepest point of the boat shed. It draws all uncontained water currently within the structure to it, where it falls through the grate and into the sewer to be flushed away. The effect is subtle, so as not to unnerve the craftsmen and laborers who work in the boathouse. The effect is also restricted to the inside of the boat shed so that rainfall is not unnaturally affected. The device needs three pawns of Rego or Aquam vis and a laboratory total of 48 to complete in a single season as a lesser enchanted device, otherwise the device needs to be opened for enchantment with eight pawns of vis. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Structure, +1 subtle effect; +1 for two uses, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (48), 2 seasons (36), 3 seasons (32), 4 seasons (30)''
''The laboratory at this point provides a +1 bonus to Aquam effects, which benefits this device. Experimentation may provide a bonus given that the side effects are likely to be inconvenient rather than dangerous. At the end of this period, the cost of upkeep has been reduced to 15 pounds''
''per year and the laboratory has the following statistics.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Expansion, Spacious; Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker Enchantments: The Soak (+1 Health) Characteristics: Size +7 (+4), Refinement 0, General Quality +2, Upkeep +5, Safety –3, Warping 0, Health –3, Aesthetics –2 Specializations: +2 Ships, +1 Aquam, +1 Auram''
''Setting the Focus''
''As a shipyard, all the activities are geared towards building, repairing, and refurbishing ships. The central boat shed needs to be equipped to handle large vessels, and this forms the central feature of the laboratory. It takes two seasons to install the necessary winches, cranes, and scaffolding inside the boat shed, and to align them with the magical energies that will ultimately flow through them. This grants the Greater Feature Virtue, which is balanced by taking the Major Focus Flaw. The Upkeep has risen again, meaning the work undertaken costs six pounds of silver and the yearly upkeep now costs 21 pounds of silver. This gives the shipyard the following statistics:''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Expansion, Greater Feature: boat shed, Spacious; Greater Focus: ships, Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker Enchantments: The Soak (+1 Health) Characteristics: Size +6 (+4), Refinement 0, General Quality 0, Upkeep +6, Safety –3, Warping 0, Health –3, Aesthetics 0 Specializations: +9 Ships, +1 Aquam, +1 Auram''
''At this point the shipyard provides a significant bonus to all ship and sailing-related magical effects.''
''Tools of the Trade''
''There are two Free Virtues that the Hermetic shipwright would do well to gain for his laboratory. Given that his shipyard already has provision for external workshops, talented mundane craftsmen should be engaged and retained on-site in order to provide Superior Equipment and Superior Tools (Covenants, page 116). As these are Free Virtues, no seasons are spent in acquiring them but they should be the result of a story event:''
''• Interacting with a guild to find the best''
''craftsman in town • Appealing to a patron saint of craftsmen for inspiration (Saint Dunstan, for instance) • Stealing away a famous craftsman from''
''a nearby noble, town, or covenant''
''If the craftsmen can be brought into the shipwright’s covenant, they impose no additional upkeep burden on the laboratory. For the purposes of this laboratory’s statistics, it is assumed that this is the case. The bonuses for these Virtues are included in the statistics later. The craftsmen may become troupe characters and, given their level of ability, the rules in City & Guild, from page 63 onwards, are particularly useful. And of course, once the craftsmen have been recruited, they may become targets for other magi also keen to use them. Much of the work undertaken in the shipyard involves heaving large planks and beams of wood from one place to another, occasionally with some delicacy. The following effect further improves the laboratory by making these tasks easier.''
''The Wheel ReHe 30 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual This is a horse-driven wheel connected to a number of chains, ropes, and pulleys that feed into the main boat shed. These ropes can be connected to the vari''
''ous cranes and winches that are used to lift and move the great wooden beams from which the ship is formed. The wheel provides motive power, which allows fewer craftsmen than normal to construct the ship, which in turn adds +1 to the ships specialization, and adds +1 to a Rego specialization. The horse is entirely incidental; it is there simply because mundane visitors would expect it. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration, +2 size; +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38) Three pawns of Rego or Herbam vis and a laboratory total of 60 is required in order to create this as a lesser enchanted device. The alternative is to open the device for enchantment with eight pawns of vis. Acquiring the equipment, tools, and installing the wheel device increases the laboratory’s Upkeep and costs 24 pounds of silver initially and 45 pounds of silver each year. The Wheel is installed as a Minor Feature, which gives the laboratory the following statistics:''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Expansion, Greater Feature: boat shed, Lesser Feature: Wheel, Spacious, Superior Equipment, Superior Tools; Greater Focus: ships, Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker''
''Enchantments: The Soak (+1 Health), The Wheel (+1 ships, +1 Rego) Characteristics: Size +6 (+5), Refinement 0, General Quality +1, Upkeep +9, Safety –2, Warping 0, Health –3, Aesthetics 0 Specializations: +10 Ships, +1 Enchanting Items, +1 Rego, +1 Aquam, +1 Auram''
''Adding the Gallery''
''The increase in Refinement releases another Virtue slot, which is used to provide a gallery as per the Minor Virtue. The gallery consists of a raised walkway around the inside of the boat shed, high enough that it provides a view over the entire construction. It is separate from the scaffolding that supports the ship while under construction. After the season spent constructing the gallery and improving the drainage (to remove the Damp Flaw), the laboratory Upkeep has reduced and now costs 36 pounds of silver each year. The laboratory has the following statistics:''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Expansion, Greater Feature: boat shed, Gallery, Lesser Feature: Wheel, Spacious; Greater Focus: ships, Exposed, Missing Sanctum Marker Enchantments: The Soak (+1 Health), The Wheel (+1 ships, +1 Rego) Characteristics: Size +6 (+6), Refinement 0, General Quality +1, Upkeep +8,''
''Safety –2, Warping 0, Health –1, Aesthetics –1 Specializations: +10 Ships, +1 Enchanting Items, +1 Rego, +1 Auram''
''This is the last stage in the construction of the Hermetic Shipyard, a task that has taken 11 seasons, assuming one each for the Soak and the Wheel, from breaking the ground on the new shipyard to completing the gallery. The laboratory suffers for its specialization, with penalties to Safety, Health, and Aesthetics, but these could be further improved with additional work. The final build cost for this laboratory is 214 points.''

==The Hermetic Shipwright==

''There are three options for constructing the ship prior to enchantment. The first and most straight-forward way of constructing a ship is to rely on mundane skill and labor. A skilled shipwright, leading a team of around 10 craftsmen and laborers, can finish a ship in two seasons. This is based on a shipwright with a score of 5 in the Profession: Shipwright ability. This decreases to a single season when the shipwright gains a score of 10 in the ability. See City & Guild, page 68, for further detail. The second option is to use Rego craft magic (Covenants, page 49) to process and assemble the parts of the ship. This approach requires a high Finesse ability, but can reduce the time taken to build a ship. Liberal use of craft magic, to process smaller components, can double the efficiency of the shipwright, effectively halving the time it takes to build a ship. The third option is to use Creo rituals to conjure the ship. This is clearly the fastest way of “building” a vessel, but again relies upon Finesse and the expenditure of vis.''

[|

==The Shipyard as Mundane Workshop==

''While the magus improves his laboratory to enhance its magical qualities, the craftsman improves the mundane aspects of his workshop to improve the quality of his craftsmanship. But a Hermetic shipwright is concerned not only about enchantment, but also about the quality of the vessels his shipyard produces. Ideally, the magus will want to improve both aspects of his shipyard. As the magus accounts for his time''
''differently to a mundane craftsman, in seasons of activity rather than Labor Points, it is most convenient to have a mundane shipwright work with the magus. This mundane shipwright can be treated as a specialist supported by the magus or his covenant. The mundane shipwright earns Labor Points as described in City & Guild, and the excess, beyond those required to sustain him, can be put to improving the workshop or shipyard in this case.''

|]

==Hermetic Projects Mundane Craftsmen==

''As per the insert in City & Guild, page 70, we can expect most enchanted ships to be of Superior or Excellent quality, though this depends on the shipwright’s skill. Superior vessels add a bonus of +1 to specific activities, such as navigation or ship-handling rolls. Excellent quality ships may have a higher bonus, which may be applied to the same areas as well as providing the same bonus to laboratory totals for enchanting that device. If the Hermetic Shipwright is leading the construction of the ship, its quality is based upon his Profession: Shipwright score plus any bonus from the workshop as enhanced by the mundane shipwright (see the nearby insert). The four ships belonging to the covenant of Favonius, designed by Memnos of Verditius, are of Excellent Quality, giving pilots a +2 bonus to any navigation rolls, and captains a +2 bonus to any ship-handling rolls. The same +2 bonus also applies to laboratory totals for any future effects enchanted into the ships.''

==Craft Magic==

''Rego craft magic has one advantage over Creo rituals: it does not require vis. But as with Creo rituals used to create artificial items, the results of Rego craft magic are dependent on Perception + Finesse rolls against Ease Factors that increase with the complexity of the task. The creation of complex items that would normally take a season or more to create has a very high Ease Factor. Magi do have ways to help themselves though. Page 68 of Art & Academe details the creation and use of Ligatures, small single-use charms based on mundane Artes Liberales, Philosophiae, or Medicine. These provide a small bonus (up to +3) for a single roll, which effectively reduces the target Ease Factor. The Precise Casting spell mastery ability (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 34) adds +1 to the caster’s Finesse total, which provides a means to reach the high Ease Factors as''
''sociated with Craft Magic. It should be noted by eager followers of Verditius that a ship assembled through Rego Craft Magic does not benefit from a Verditius’ craft ability for the purposes of reducing the pawns required to open it for enchantment. The mysteries of the Verditius art cannot be replicated with simple craft magic.''
''The Hands of Phereclus''
''ReHe(Te) 40 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group Given enough lumber and prepared iron nails and other fixtures, this craft magic spell constructs an entire ship from the assembled raw materials. The design of the ship can be decided as the magus works the spell, and enough lumber can be controlled by the spell to create a ship of''
''up to size +8. The free Terram requisite allows control and manipulation of the nails, bricks, and other mineral elements, but it cannot prepare them from raw materials; they must be in the required state. As with all craft magic, a Perception + Finesse roll is required and, given the difficulty of creating a full vessel in little more than an instant, the Ease Factor is relatively high. Small ships, up to size +5, can ordinarily be built in a single season, while larger ships take multiple seasons. The following table takes this into account and provides a guide to Craft Magic Ease Factors for creating vessels of different sizes:''
''Ship Ease Factor River Barge 15 Coastal Buss 21 Large Cog 27 Grain Barge 30''
''In the table earlier, building a river barge is a relatively easy task for a shipwright, which is a base Ease Factor of 9, but the construction is likely to take up to a season, which adds +6 to the Ease Factor for a total of 15. Building a Mediterranean grain barge is an impressive feat (Ease Factor 21) and would normally take a shipwright a year (+9), which means a magus faces an Ease Factor of 30 to create such a vessel with craft magic. Given the relatively high Ease Factors involved, this spell is most likely to be used in constructing small vessels very quickly as a means of income for the shipyard. The spell is named for Phereclus, a master shipbuilder of Greek antiquity. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +3 Size, +1 intricacy) Required Lab Total: 1 season (80), 2 seasons (60), 3 seasons (54), 4 seasons (50) Rego effects designed in the shipyard gain a +1 bonus from the Rego specialization and a further +10 as this is directly related to ships. Experimental side effects may include the design of the ships never quite matching what the magus intended, perhaps taking on a Greek aspect as per the spell’s inspiration. Modified effects may provide bonuses or penalties to the Finesse Ease Factors.''
''The Unseen Shipwright''
''ReHe(Te) 30 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group The magus selects a pile of wood and formed iron fixtures, and the spell cuts, carves, and joins the wood into the hull of a target ship, repairing splits and holes under the magus’ direction. The worst damage is repaired first so that the vessel is always left seaworthy and the repairs are practically seamless. A Perception + Finesse roll is required against an Ease Factor set by the storyguide. The table on Covenants, page 49, is a useful guide, but a rule of thumb is that repairing a small leak or a splintered rudder is a task of average difficulty taking no more than a day for an Ease Factor of 12, while refloating a wrecked ship is almost impossible, with an Ease Factor of at least 27 (plus any modifiers that the storyguide imposes based on how long it might take a mundane shipwright to refloat the vessel). The magus must have appropriate materials to hand in order to make repairs. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 size, +1 flexibility) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38) No shape or material bonuses apply''
''but appropriate laboratory bonuses can be applied. Experiment side effects might include the repairs being obvious or weakened, or the Ease Factors for the Finesse rolls may be modified.''
''The Conscientious Carpenter''
''ReHe 30 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group One advantage of Rego craft magic is that Finesse can be taught to anyone, Gifted or not. This means an enchanted device in the hands of a Finesse-trained mundane craftsman can be put to work as effectively as a magus casting the spell himself. When touched to pile of wood, this wand cleans, cuts, and shapes the wood into the strakes that make up a ship’s hull. The wand is limited to creating strakes and cannot be used to work other parts of the ship. Use of this wand throughout the building of a ship adds +1 to the shipwrights Profession: Shipwright ability for the purposes of deciding how long the ship takes to complete (City & Guild, page 68). (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group; +10 unlimited use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38) Appropriate laboratory bonuses apply to this effect (+1 Rego) as does a further +4 bonus as the wand is made of wood.''

==Creo Rituals==

''Creo rituals have the benefit of being more reliable than Craft Magic but at the cost of expending vis on their casting. Artificial items created through Creo rituals require an Intelligence + Finesse roll to determine their quality, as outlined in ArM5, page 77. As with Rego craft magic, the Finesse rolls associated with Creo rituals can be aided through the use of ligatures and spell mastery.''

[|

==Shipbuilding Story Seeds==

''The Vessel Recovered''
''A ship is found damaged, crewless, and drifting. The captain who found it tows it into dock, looking for someone skilled in the magical arts to repair it, for the ship is obviously enchanted. Very quickly, the Hermetic Shipwright realizes that the ship, the Paregro Mare, is the talisman of Maris of Tytalus and it can take little more punishment before it loses all its magic. But where is its owner? What has separated him from his talisman? And what will Maris’ reaction be to those who might wish to help''
''him? See Magi of Hermes, page 70, for more information on Maris of Tytalus.''
''The Unskilled Shipwright''
''After seasons spent experimenting with the creation of spells and rituals to repair and create ships, the magus is visited by a carpenter specializing in the construction of ships. It seems that the magus’ experiments have somehow robbed the carpenter of all his skill. Can the magus put the damage right, or is there an even stranger explanation for the carpenter’s condition?''

|]
''Conjuration of the Seaworthy Cog''
''CrHe(Te) 45 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Structure, Ritual This ritual creates a fully-formed cog. The resulting ship is an exact copy of the cog used as a template during the design of this spell, even down to the knots in the hull and the adze marks on the keel. The only difference is that, assuming the magus makes the Intelligence + Finesse stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9, the conjured ship is in perfect condition, as though each part of its construction has only just been finished. Any flaws in the original template are rectified where they would have made the conjured ship weaker or less seaworthy. A Terram requisite is required to create the bolts, nails, and other fixtures. Given the nature of the spell, a different ritual is required for each different type of ship that the shipwright wishes to conjure. To achieve this, the Hermetic shipwright must create a new ritual using the existing laboratory text as a guide and apply the principles to a new design. Unless cast on a waterway, the ritual should be cast within a boat shed prepared to receive the conjured vessel so that it does not topple and damage itself or its surroundings. Making the preparations forms a significant part of the ritual. Botches in casting are likely to conjure the ship in a position the magus did not expect, which could cause significant damage to his laboratory or bystanders. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Structure, +2 for treated and processed Herbam, +3 intricacy, +1 Terram requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (90), 2 seasons (68), 3 seasons (60), 4 seasons (57) If designed in the Hermetic Shipyard described earlier, the +10 bonus for ships applies to this laboratory total. Magi may want to experiment to raise their lab totals, in which case the type or size of ship created may be different, the quality of the ship may be worse than intended, or the completion of the ritual may destroy the template ship.''
''Reparation of the Wounded Vessel''
''CrHe(Te) 45 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Structure, Ritual This ritual repairs all the damage to the target ship, restoring all it sdamage levels regardless of its condition. All components considered intrinsic to the ship are affected by the ritual, including the rudder, masts, castles, sails, oars, and so on. The spell works on any vessel and returns it to the peak of its seaworthiness. Unless the ship is completely wrecked (having lost all of its damage levels), any Hermetic effects enchanted into the vessel are still retained. Enchantments are only lost where all damage levels have been lost. A Terram requisite is required to mend or replace bolts, nails, and other fixtures. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Structure, +2 for treated and processed Herbam, +3 intricacy, +1 Terram requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (90), 2 seasons (68), 3 seasons (60), 4 seasons (57) The +10 ships bonus afforded by the laboratory applies to this effect. Experimentation may reduce the effectiveness of the ritual, leaving the ship with at least one damage level lost, or in the worst cases put the enchantments at risk.''
''Running Repairs''
''CrHe(Te) 30 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Structure, Ritual This ritual repairs a single damage level to a vessel, represented by the magus identifying and targeting the damaged area of the ship. This ritual may be cast on a ship that has lost multiple damage levels, but only one of those levels will be repaired. A Terram requisite is required to mend or replace bolts, nails, and other fixtures. If cast on a ship with at least one remaining damage level, any enchantments in the ship are preserved. If the ship has no damage levels remaining, then the enchantments are lost. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Structure, +2 for treated and processed Herbam, +1 Terram requisite) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38)''

==The Mechanics of Enchantment==

''Shipwrights consider the various parts of the ship as being separate entities. The keel (where present) and the hull comprise one, the mast makes an''

[|

==Support for Mysteries==

''There are magical mysteries used across the Order that make the preparation for enchantment of large devices easier. The Verditius Magic virtue allows the magus to reduce the pawns of vis required to open the ship for enchantment by his Craft: Carpenter score (ArM5, page 97). The Verditius inner mystery of Elder Runes allows the shipwright to use a number of pawns of vis equal to his Magic Theory score multiplied by his Philosophiae score (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 127). The Mystery''
''of Celestial Magic reduces the number of pawns that must be spent to open the device (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 48). Philosophic Alchemy allows the magus to extract vis from an aura directly into a device. This can be used to part-prepare the device for enchantment. The example on page 41 of The Mysteries Revised Edition shows how this can be used to help the magus open devices ordinarily beyond his capabilities. Shipwrights intent on enchanting larger vessels should consider these options.''

|]
''other, any upperworks (such as castles at the fore and aft) are separate, as are the sails, rigging, and finally the rudder or the steering oar. But for the magus, one of the most important questions is one of size: can the magus actually use enough vis in a single season to open the vessel for enchantment? Conventional ships are primarily constructed of wood. Looking at the Material and Size Tables on ArM5, page 97, we can see that wood requires a base 2 pawns of vis, but the table only describes items up to the size of a boat or wagon and gives them a size multiplier of x5. Most ships are an order of magnitude larger again, so we should expect a size multiplier of x6 for a moderate vessel and x7 or x8 for a large ship. The largest of all ships have a size multiplier of x9. The table that follows lists the number of pawns of vis that must be used to open various parts of the ship for enchantment.''
''Component Base Size Total   Pawns  Pawns''
''Hull (huge) 2 9 18 Hull (very large) 2 8 16 Hull (large) 2 7 14 Hull (moderate) 2 6 12 Hull (small) 2 5 10 Keel (alone) 2 5 10 Mast 2 4 8 Rigging 2 5 10 Sails 1 5 5 Rudder/Steering Oar 2 4 8 Castle 2 4 8 Anchor 5 4 20''
''As described in Ars Magica Fifth Edition, on page 97, there are two ways to prepare the vessel for enchantment. The first is to prepare only a part of the vessel, the steering oar for instance. As part of the ship, effects invested in the oar benefit from shape (but not material bonuses) inherent in the ship, but the magus does not have to prepare the en''

[|

==A Comment on Hermetic Architecture==

''The Hermetic Architecture Virtue presents a method of enchanting very large objects through the use of mystically attuned proxy devices (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 97). These devices are prepared and enchanted separately and then joined through a ritual with the ultimate target of the enchantment. This approach has a number of benefits. The proxy devices are small enough that they can be enchanted within a standard Hermetic laboratory under carefully controlled conditions. The devices can be applied to structures of any size. Finally, the Mystery permits Boundary effects to be enchanted into the devices, something ordinary Hermetic understanding does not support. But the process is both time-con''
''suming and vis-hungry. To enchant a wooden ship of size +7 (a large cog), the Hermetic Architect would at minimum need to open seven separate devices with 14 pawns of Vim vis each. Each of these devices would then need to have the target enchantment invested separately. This process is followed by a further ritual of level 40 (assuming an original enchantment of level 30). This is a total of 127 pawns of vis over potentially 14 seasons. For the Hermetic shipwright, it is preferable to build a large working Hermetic laboratory. The time taken is likely to be less than the 14 seasons needed by the Hermetic Architect and the vis required in the enchantment of the ship is an order of magnitude lower.''

==Shape and Material Bonuses==

''Being constructed from wood, effects enchanted into a ship almost certainly benefit from at least the usual +4 bonus to affect dead wood. The type of wood used provides additional material bonuses and different parts of the vessel have different mystical resonances, which provide their own shape and material bonuses. The table that follows lists the appropriate bonuses according to the shapes and materials commonly used in ship construction. There are also a number of shapes and materials not traditionally associated with shipbuilding that provide useful bonuses and may find their way into enchanted devices.''
''Shape/Material	 Bonus Agate +3 air  +5 protection from storms Anchor +3 prevent movement Aquamarine +3 water Ash +2 harm people Bellows +4 create wind Beryl +3 water Boat +3 sailing''
''Crystal +5 water related effect Cypress +3 necromancy  +3 spirits Fan +4 banish weather phenomena  +4 create or control winds Fir +3 darkness  +1 malicious faeries Garnet +2 navigation Lilac +2 travel Mast +2 protection from temptation Mercury +3 Aquam Oak +7 protection from storms Oar +4 affect currents Opal +4 travel Pine +3 light  +1 friendly faeries Rope +4 restraint or binding Sea Shell +2 the sea  +3 sea creatures Ship +5 sailing Ship’s Sail +4 affect winds  +7 sailing Wood (dead) +4 affect dead wood  +3 affect living wood''

|]
''tire ship. Alternatively, the ship can be treated as a compound item, in which case the ship can be prepared for enchantment for a number of pawns equal to the highest-cost part, or the sum of all included components. This means that a small buss with a single mast and a steering oar can be prepared for enchantment with either 10 or 26 (10 pawns for the hull, 8 for the mast, and 8 for the steering oar) pawns of vis. A magus can use twice his Magic Theory score in pawns of vis per season. So in order to prepare the buss for enchantment as a single item with 26 pawns of vis, the magus needs an effective Magic Theory score of 13.''
''Enchanted Items that Act Upon the Ship''
''Enchantments do not necessarily need to be invested into the ship itself. By increasing the range of enchantments to Touch and adding one magnitude to the effect’s cost, smaller devices can be installed within the ship to much the same effect. This may limit the interactions between effects, and it increases the risk that any one device might be lost or broken, but it does allow less-skilled magi to create helpful devices for use on board ships. There are drawbacks to this approach. If lesser enchanted devices are used, the level of their effects is likely to be lower that those enchanted into a ship prepared for enchantment, due to the need to enchant the device within a single season. On the other hand, individual invested devices must be opened for enchantment in their first season, which potentially adds many seasons to the overall project. While this approach is certainly viable, especially for younger shipwrights as they grow in experience, this chapter assumes the attention of a skilled or knowledgeable magus capable of opening the ship’s hull for enchantment.''

==Building The Hermes==

''The first vessel to be built at the completed Hermetic shipyard is a large ocean-going cog, The Hermes, so named for the Order and for the Greek god in his role as patron of travelers. The Hermes is opened for enchantment and invested with a number of effects to make the vessel more manageable and seaworthy. The key enchantment allows the ship to reconfigure the shape of its hull such that it can sail shallow inland waterways, as well as navigating the more challenging northern seas. This section takes the project from the physical construction and outfitting of the hull to the launching of the completed magical vessel. With a shipyard and team of craftsmen and laborers available, The Hermes is built''
''by hand. The quality of the construction has not been factored into the laboratory calculations later as this will be variable according the shipwright’s skill.''

==Constructing and Preparing the Vessel==

''Assuming that The Hermes is constructed by the shipwright’s team with no magical intervention, the ship takes two seasons to complete to seaworthiness. During the second season, the shipwright can prepare the vessel for enchantment, a process that takes a season. The Hermes is a small merchant cog with a single mast and a castle at the rear of the vessel. It is opened as a compound device: the hull and the castle are treated as separate elements. This takes a total of 18 pawns of vis (10 for the hull and 8 for the castle) and requires an effective''
''Magic Theory of 9, within the reach of an experienced enchanter. Options for reducing the amount of vis required are discussed earlier. This allows for a maximum of 180 levels of effects to be enchanted into The Hermes. Built of oak, The Hermes has the following base shape and material bonuses:''
''Shape/Material	 Bonus Oak +7 protection from storms Ship +5 sailing Wood (dead) +4 affect dead wood +3 affect living wood''

==Enchanting The Hull==

''The following enchantments are invested into the hull of the ship.''
''Shape of the Coastal Buss''
''Re(Mu)He(Te) 43 Pen: +0, 6/day R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Structure This effect allows The Hermes to change shape; its keel, deck, and strakes can transform from one design to another, in this case to a coastal buss able to navigate shallower waters and travel further upriver than a cog.''
''Triggered by the captain or a crewman holding firm to the ship and calling for it to change, the ship reshapes itself, strakes pulling themselves free, decks folding themselves, planks stretching and contracting, and nails loosening themselves before finding new homes. At the end of the transformation the original cog is replaced by a smaller coastal buss. The effect is total, such that, where required, the construction of the ship can also change, from clinker-built to carvel, or vice versa. The ship’s rigging is also affected by these shape-changing spells, changing the sails in size and shape where needed. While the Rego technique governs the movement and control of the component parts, the Muto requisite changes them in size and shape, so that no new material is required and none is lost through the''
''transformation. The Hermes itself maintains concentration on the transformation and the effect is ended either by command or by the vessel taking on another shape. The transformation is likely to be unnerving to first-timers, but the center of the top deck near to the mast is quite safe. Those at the side of the ship must take their chances. A distinct effect using the same level is required for each shape that the vessel can take, which means the same laboratory text cannot be used for subsequent shapes. (Base 5, +1 Concentration, +3 Structure, +1 Muto requisite, +1 intricacy; +3 for 6 uses per day, +5 device maintains concentration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (86), 2 seasons (65), 3 seasons (58), 4 seasons (54) The laboratory bonus of +10 for ships applies to this effect, as does the +4 bonus to affect dead wood. While the aim of the effect may be to make the ship easier to sail in certain circumstances, the +5 bonus to sailing does not apply. Magi who experiment in creating this effect may see the effect warped, for instance through the new shape being obviously mystical (perhaps expressing magical symbols in its hull) or they may find the ship’s new shape capable of traveling further and faster than anticipated.''
''Magical Ballast''
''ReHe 24 Pen: +0, Constant Effect''

[|

==Using Ptolemaic Coordinates==

''The Hesperides chapter in the Ancient Magic supplement presents a system of coordinates devised by Claudius Ptolemaeus that can be integrated with Hermetic magic. Ptolemy’s system can be used to derive coordinates from a set zero point that then describes a given location. The coordinates work according to the law of Names rather than the law of Contagion, so they do not need to''
''be collected but can be derived through study, learned from a teacher or a book, or gained through direct observation of the heavens. The zero point for Ptolemy’s system is within the Purple Islands of the west coast of Africa, and searching for their secrets is a whole series of stories that especially fit the captain and crew of an enchanted ship.''

==Story Seeds for Enchanting the Hull==

''The Lost''
''Long after The Hermes has been launched, the crew loses their most loyal and trusted member at sea. And at that moment, the magic of The Hermes stops. None of the effects enchanted into the vessel obey the crew’s commands, and not the slightest spark of magic can be found in the ship. Can the ship be mourning her lost crewman? How can she be restored to order? Could the crewman’s last words,''
''concerning a lost son, be the key to this mystery?''
''The Dogged Adversary''
''Jealous at The Hermes’ ease of handling, a rival merchant plants a spy aboard the vessel to see how the crew load the ship and how they control her when under sail. But the spy sees more than he bargained for, and the magical nature of the vessel is in danger of being exposed.''

|]
''R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Structure Weight and its distribution through the ship is vital to its handling. This effect ensures that The Hermes always comes to rest true and level in the water. The Hermes is treated as carrying a constant load, evenly distributed across the ship, no matter what cargo it is loaded with. This ensures that the crew can handle the ship as easily fully loaded as they can with an empty hold. Exceeding the ship’s tonnage causes the effect to fail and the ship’s handling to degrade, though it reasserts itself when the load has been reduced. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +3 Structure; +1 2/ day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (48), 2 seasons (36), 3 seasons (32), 4 seasons (30) The +10 bonus for ships and the +1 bonus for Rego from the laboratory both apply. The +5 shape bonus to sailing also applies as does +1 for prior Rego and/or Herbam effects. If the magus experiments while instilling this effect, it could fail when the ship sails under certain conditions, when cargo is loaded into certain areas, or could increase or decrease the ship’s base tonnage.''

==Aids to Navigation==

''A ship is of little use without a navigator to plot its course. A magical navigator can plot courses with surety, and issues commands directly to the ship to ensure the course is closely followed. The effects that follow present the means by which The Hermes plots and tracks its course, as well as providing autonomous control to the ship.''
''The Unerring Navigator''
''InTe 40 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Individual This effect is activated by the ma''
''gus or crewman calling for The Hermes to find a place represented by an arcane connection. The effect allows The Hermes to recognize the direction in which the target can be found. The arcane connection must remain in contact with the ship through the effect’s duration. While this effect, on its own, does not provide any bonus toward navigating the ship, later effects invested into The Hermes can use the knowledge that this effect provides. (Base 4, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration; +5 maintain concentration, +10 for unlimited use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (80), 2 seasons (60), 3 seasons (54), 4 seasons (50) Bonuses of +16 apply to this laboratory project: +10 as the ship is enchanted in the shipyard, +5 as it is a sailing effect, and +1 for prior Terram effects.''
''Follow the Coast''
''InTe 30 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Vision Activated by a crewman with clear sight of the coast, The Hermes can be commanded to follow the indicated coastline at a given distance. The coast must be sighted initially for targeting purposes,''
''but does not thereafter need to be kept in sight by the crewman, as the enchantment grants this limited sensory ability to the vessel itself. The effect ends either by command by any of the crew or when the ship sails out of sight of the targeted coastline. The effect works by determining the direction and distance to the coast throughout the effect’s duration, which The Hermes itself maintains. As a navigational effect, it provides no bonuses or benefit to the crew unless used together with the Tillerman enchantment. (Base 2, +1 Concentration, +4 Vision; +10 unlimited use, +5 maintain concentration) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38) Enchanted in the Hermetic Shipyard, this effect benefits from the usual +10 for ships, and the effect is so closely linked to sailing that the shape bonus of +5 to sailing also applies here. In addition, there are prior effects that include Intellego and/ or Terram effects, so the laboratory total gains an additional +2 bonus. Potential side effects from experimentation might see the effect misjudging the distance to the coast or recognizing only certain types of coastline, such as beaches, harbors, or cliffs.''

[|

==Interaction Between Navigational Effects==

''It is possible for more than one navigational effect to be active at any one time. Where The Hermes has been commanded both to sail for Constantinople and to follow the coast,  these effects are designed to work in harmony to ensure that the ship sails the coastal route to the city. Where there is a clear conflict, the most recent command takes precedence. Any subsequent use of an effect replaces any currently running instance of that effect, so a command to sail for Sicily replaces the command to reach''
''Constantinople, but the instruction to follow the coast remains in effect. The ship’s crew are not left powerless by such effects. Most of the navigational enchantments on The Hermes control the larger-scale movements of the ship, but it is the crew who ultimately control her. Left to its own devices, The Hermes may, unless protected, run aground in following the line of the coast. But the crew can steer her through treacherous waters while still benefiting from the ship’s enchantments.''

|]

==Hermetic Projects Into the Wind==

''There are two primary means by which the ship is controlled: the rudder or steering oar, and the sails. While the rudder controls the direction in which the ship faces, allowing the crew to swing the ship to port or starboard, management of the sails provides the energy to propel the ship forward along its course. A ship with the wind behind it is said to be running, but sails do not always need the wind behind them for the ship to follow its course. By close-hauling, ships can run diagonally upwind. To stay on course, a ship may tack or turn through the wind; a ship close-hauled on the port side may swing its bow to the opposite side of the wind and close-haul to the starboard side. These maneuvers allow the sails to catch enough wind for the ship to make progress, even against the direction of the wind. The following effects either aid the crew in sailing The Hermes or, in some cases, take over altogether.''
''The Tillerman''
''ReHe 25 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual The Hermes is fitted with a large rudder controlled by a sturdy tiller under the rear castle. Ordinarily, the tiller is manned with the tillerman taking commands from the captain or mate forward of the mast. But this effect allows the ship to take control of the rudder. By default, this effect keeps the tiller in the last position it was manually moved to. But this effect is unusual in that it is linked to and controlled by two other enchantments. The tiller is controlled according to the headings determined by both the Unerring Navigator and the Follow the Coast effects, shifting the rudder to keep The Hermes on course to its destination. While the tiller is being controlled by these effects the ship’s crew gain +3 to''
''navigation and/or sailing rolls to reach the specified location, and +1 to navigate in relation to it. It has been enchanted as a constant effect but the additional control mechanisms have also been accounted for in the effect design. This effect allows The Hermes to sail with a smaller crew than normal without penalty to the ship’s handling. This effect has been enchanted into The Hermes as the rudder is often vulnerable and prone to damage in difficult waters. This allows the rudder to be replaced without losing the magic. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set, +3 triggered by the Unerring Navigator, +3 triggered by Follow the Coast) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32) Bonuses of +10 (ships), +5 (sailing), and +1 (Rego) apply to this enchantment, as does a bonus of +2 for prior Rego and/ or Herbam effects.''
''Man the Sails''
''ReHe 26 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group When a crewman calls out his commands loudly and clearly, The Hermes obeys and draws the sails into the desired configuration. The target of the effect is whatever sails and rigging, treated as a Group, are rigged to the mast. Sails can be raised, lowered, or close-hauled, allowing the ship to tack through the wind. The crewman must make a Perception + Finesse Stress Roll against Ease Factor 6 to complete the action successfully. Use of this effect allows The Hermes to sail with a smaller crew than would otherwise be needed, and makes manipulating the sails quicker than mundane vessels, which also helps to make her more maneuverable. This effect is also controlled through the two navigational effects described''
''earlier and the cost of the triggers for both of these are accommodated in the effect design. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Group; +10 for unlimited use, +3 triggered by the Unerring Navigator, +3 triggered by Follow the Coast) Required Lab Total: 1 season (52), 2 seasons (39), 3 seasons (35), 4 seasons (33) Assuming this effect is enchanted within the Hermetic Shipyard, the magus receives the following bonuses to his Lab Total: +10 for ships, +5 for sailing, +1 for Rego, and +3 for prior Rego and/or Herbam effects.''

==Outfitting the Ship==

''The following effects are not enchanted into The Hermes itself, but are separate enchantments that either act on the ship’s environment or provide effects not directly related to sailing.''
''Gather the Wind''
''ReAu 14 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R:Touch, D:Sun, T: Individual This enchanted sail amplifies the force of any wind that touches it, collecting more of the wind than would normally pass across the sail. An unfamiliar sailor or captain suffers a –1 penalty to any ship handling rolls for the first season working with the device, but once familiarized, he gains a +2 bonus to any sailing rolls and totals for speed. Vessels normally rigged with multiple sails need to be fully rigged with these devices in order to gain the benefit. If they are not, the –1 handling penalty applies. If using City & Guild, these enchanted sails need to be of at least Superior construction to withstand the greater forces to which they are subject. As this effect is third magnitude, it does provide a +3 bonus to all stress checks against storm damage.''
''(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 for 2/ day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (28), 2 seasons (21), 3 seasons (19), 4 seasons (18) The sail provides a +4 bonus to effects dealing with wind while the shipyard laboratory adds +1 for each of Rego and Auram.''
''Cutting the Waves''
''ReAq 19 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R:Touch, D:Sun, T: Individual This device is a shaped wooden plank, attached to the stem, or leading edge, of the ship. The Rego Aquam enchantment breaks the waves ahead of the vessel, which eases the path of the ship through the water. Each wave is treated as an individual, rather than a part of a larger whole. This is by analogy with Rego Auram, which treats distinct winds as individuals. The effect, once the captain and crew are familiar with the ship’s handling, is to improve its speed through the water. An unfamiliar crew or captain suffers a –1 penalty to any ship handling rolls for the first season working with the device, but once familiarized, they gain a +2 bonus to any sailing rolls and totals for speed. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 for 2/ day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (38), 2 seasons (29), 3 seasons (26), 4 seasons (24) The Hermetic Shipyard provides a +1 bonus to the lab total for each of Rego and Aquam.''
''The Ship’s Hearth''
''Cr(Re)Ig 19 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Circle All ships have at least one hearth of some kind, and these are usually built into the vessel as it is constructed. Ships need fire for cooking, light, and warmth, but a fire that escapes can ravage and sink a''
''ship if not contained quickly. This circular hearth, made of fired brick and mortar, creates its own magical fire of +5 intensity. The Rego requisite ensures that no flame or ember can leave the hearth. (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Rego requisite, +1 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (38), 2 seasons (29), 3 seasons (26), 4 seasons (24) This device does not benefit from the laboratory bonus to ships, as it is separate from the hull and does not affect the ship itself. But as a hearth, it does gain a +7 to create fire and heat.''
''False Fire''
''CrIg 9 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual These enchanted lamps shine with an unending inner light equivalent to torchlight. The lamps generate neither heat nor smoke, which makes them ideal for lighting the ship. The Hermes has a number of these, as they are cheap and easy to produce, and most magi are able to create multiple lamps in a season, especially given the easily obtainable Laboratory Text. (Base 3, +2 Sun; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered by sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (18), 2 seasons (14), 3 seasons (12) If the effects are enchanted into lamps as described earlier, the project benefits from a +7 bonus to produce light, making the devices very easy to make. Given the low level of the effect, it is recommended that these lamps be lesser enchantments, which avoids the need to open each lamp for enchantment.''

==The Finished Ship==

''Though it has taken years and many pawns of vis, with the completion of the final two effects, The Hermes is an incredible vessel, able to confidently sail shallow coastal waters and survive the rolling''
''northern seas. She can sail under heavy load with no loss of performance, and can even chart and sail her own course. Her magically controlled rudder and sails make her faster and more maneuverable than mundane ships, able to outpace her rivals, and the combination of magical effects means she sails with a smaller crew. And of course, with The Hermes now finished, the Hermetic Shipwright has a library of Laboratory Texts that he can employ on his next and possibly more powerful vessel.''

==Outlandish Vessels==

''The Hermes, as enchanted as it is, represents a mundane sailing ship. For all the magic that has been invested into it, The Hermes is limited in where it can sail and by what means. But the ambitious magus need not be constrained, and the following sections describe ships that sail above the clouds, beneath the oceans, and beyond imagining in the Magic Realm itself.''

==Submarine Vessels==

''Ships are constrained to the surface of the sea, which in Mythic Europe may be considered limiting. There are many sunken cities and faerie kingdoms waiting to be discovered and rediscovered, and a ship that can plumb the depths of the oceans can reap wealth and rewards undreamt of by mundane sea captains. Three key effects are required: an effect to plunge the vessel beneath the surface and control its ascent and descent; an effect to ensure the crew can breathe underwater; and finally an effect to sail the undersea currents.''
''Poseidon’s Chariot''
''ReHe 30 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Structure This effect allows the ship to be commanded to sink into the sea, overcoming its natural buoyancy. The enchanted ship maintains concentration on the effect and keeps the ship at the depth specified by the crew. The effect can be canceled and the ship commanded to rise back to the surface. (Base 3, +1 Concentration, +3 Structure; +5 maintain concentration, +10 Unlimited Use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (44), 2 seasons (33), 3 seasons (30), 4 seasons (28) If enchanted in the Hermetic Shipyard, the usual bonuses apply (+10 ships, +1 Rego), as do +5 sailing and +4 to affect dead wood, which both come from the ship itself. Experimentation may influence the way in which the ship plunges into or rises from the sea, perhaps violently or even dangerously.''
''The Mermaid’s Kiss''
''ReAq 43 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Structure''
''Triggered by the Poseidon’s Chariot effect, this effect wards the ship against the inrushing ocean. The effect protects all below-decks areas and any enclosed parts of the vessel’s structure above deck, such as a castle. All doors and hatches are warded, as are any damaged sites that would normally let in water. The open deck, and in particular the mast and the rigging, is not protected by the ward, as this is considered to be on the outside of the structure. Crew members needing to go up on deck must protect themselves from the ocean and its currents, and submarine ships should be designed and outfitted with this in mind. The effect is named after the story that a drowning sailor, kissed by a mermaid, gains the ability to breathe water as though it were air. (Base 5, +1 Concentration, +3 Structure; +10 Unlimited Use, +5 maintain concentration, +3 triggered by Poseidon’s Chariot) Required Lab Total: 1 season (86), 2 seasons (65), 3 seasons (58), 4 seasons (54) The Hermetic Shipyard provides bonuses of +10 for ships and +1 each for Rego, Aquam, and Auram. As the ship already has one Rego effect invested, a further +1 is gained. A submarine vessel is likely to have other devices enchanted with similar ef''
''fects, such as boats that can be launched from the ship while protecting their crew, and helmets with variations of Lungs of the Fish (ArM5, page 122).''
''Catching the Tidal Winds''
''ReHe 33 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Structure This effect propels the ship through the water, riding the undersea currents as though the sails had caught a wind. The movement of the ship is controlled by both the rudder and the sails, allowing the crew to sail the ship under water just as they would on it. As with the previous effect, this effect is activated when the vessel plunges into the sea under the power of Poseidon’s Chariot. (Base 3, +1 Concentration, +3 Structure; +10 unlimited use, +5 maintain concentration, +3 triggered by Poseidon’s Chariot) Required Lab Total: 1 season (66), 2 seasons (50), 3 seasons (44), 4 seasons (42) The Hermetic Shipyard provides bonuses of +10 for ships and +1 for Rego. The ship itself provides bonuses of +4 to affect dead wood and +5 for sailing. And as the ship has been enchanted with two prior Rego effects, a further +2 is gained.''

==Hermetic Projects Ships of the Sky==

''Stories of ships that sail the sky have been popular since classical times. Some of these are doubtless idle tales told around hearths to enliven the evening, while some are the work of angels, demons, faeries, and other spirits making their journeys for their own supernatural reasons. But some of these ships may be magical enchantments created by powerful Hermetic magi or even wizards of other traditions. The creation of a magical sky ship follows much the same pattern as for an ocean-going vessel, but with two key differences: first, it needs an enchantment to loft it into the air, and second, freed from the confines of the ocean its hull can take on any design the magus desires.''
''The Sky is My Ocean''
''ReHe 39 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Structure As a constant effect, the ship is lifted into the air. The effect is controlled by a modified tiller and rudder mechanism that both controls how the ship rises and falls and how it is propelled forwards. A vessel enchanted with this effect has no need of sails or oarsmen, but without additional means of propulsion, the movement of this vessel is leisurely, as though from a calm and steady breeze. The high base magnitude allows the ship to remain on a chosen course, with adjustments and corrections being made by the crew. The effect can be suspended by landing the vessel on the ground, and the ship''
''wright would do well to design the ship with legs that can be set down for just this purpose. (Base 10, +2 Sun, +3 Structure; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (78), 2 seasons (59), 3 seasons (52), 4 seasons (49)''
''If enchanted in the Hermetic Shipyard, the usual bonuses apply (+10 ships, +1 Rego), as do +5 sailing and +4 to affect dead wood, which both come from the ship itself.''

==Sailing the Void==

''There are places beyond the mortal world, entire realms unseen and untouched by mortal hand. As described in Realms of Power: Magic, page 26, Hermetic magic has not yet tamed the Magic Realm. But a minor breakthrough (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26) makes a series of new effect''

[|

==Story Seed: The Home of the Winds==

''A magus in possession of a flying ship invites others to undertake a most marvelous journey with him. He claims to have discovered the home of the Four Winds, powerful spirits of Auram. He needs a crew of magi to help''
''him navigate and sail his ship beyond the clouds. On the way, the ship passes through strange unexpected regiones, containing a kingdom ruled by birds and a court of airy spirits planning war against the clouds.''

==The Art of Binding==

''Goetic sorcerers, described in Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 114, have access to the Art of Binding, which could be used to bind a spirit to a ship. In binding the spirit, any power it uses with a Personal range directly affects the vessel it is bound to. If a magus could find a spirit with the power to enter or leave the Magic Realm at will, and foster a sorcerer powerful enough to bind it, the enchanted ship could travel to and from the void at the behest of its captain. Note that the Goetic Binding Art is different from the practice of Spell Binding, as described in The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 27, widely known across the Order. Spell Binding involves trapping a spirit in a container so that it may power another spell also bound to that container. It cannot force the spirit to express its own powers, nor can the spirit’s powers affect the container.''
''Story Seed: The Sorcerer’s Apprentice''
''Having learned of the Goetic Arts, the Hermetic shipwright sees an opportunity to use the Art of Binding to directly bind supernatural powers to his ship. But he is so entrenched''
''in Hermetic magic that his Gift won’t bend to accommodate the required learning. There are other ways, however. He hunts down a practitioner of the Goetic Arts and demands that he teach an apprentice that he will then take as his own student, not to learn Hermetic magic, but the art of shipbuilding. How long before the Order discovers this arrangement? Will the apprentice even have the capacity for loyalty once the sorcerer has finished with him? And will the temptation of the Goetic prove too much for the shipwright?''
''Story Seed: Reunited Lovers''
''There are tales of two ghosts, the ghosts of lovers who met their ends in a most violent way. They are now cursed never to see each other again, as one only walks the mortal world during the day, while the other only walks abroad at night. It seems that these lovers return to the Magic Realm when their time on Earth is done. If these ghosts could be summoned, captured, or coerced, they could be bound to the ship and their powers controlled. But where can they be found? And under whose curse do they remain?''

|]
''guidelines available. While it may be unlikely that the Hermetic shipwright himself has both mastered the enchanting of ships and made a breakthrough concerning the Magic Realm, two magi may bring these achievements together by working with each other. Either the scholarly magus must teach the shipwright how to affect the Magic Realm, or he must lead the enchantment of the ship, using the shipwright’s facilities and his expertise in enchanting large devices. If a ship could be taken into the Magic Realm, it may need enchantments to enable it to swiftly sail the Twilight Void, that place between places, and further effects to breach the boundaries that separate magical insulae that float within the void.''
''Travel to the Magic Realm''
''If the aim is to take a ship into the Magic Realm, there is another way. Some creatures aligned with the Magic realm have the ability to step directly from the mortal world into the magical, and many are able to take others with them. If such a beast could be found, and bargained with or coerced, then the ship and its crew could enter the Magic Realm. It is unlikely that the Hermetic Shipwright would have the skills necessary to find and coerce such a beast, but a magus dedicated to finding and keeping magical creatures could be engaged to do this for him.''

==The Sailor’s Grimoire==

''The following spells are useful for the ocean-going magus and could easily be reworked into device effects and enchanted into magical ships. Additional spells and ideas for maritime magic can be found in Magi of Hermes, from page 70 onwards.''

==Spells to Aid Sailing==

''These spells were designed to help in sailing a ship.''
''Sail With the Tide''
''ReAq 35 R:Voice, D:Concentration, T: Part Ships must usually wait for the tide before they leave port. Waters dangerous at low tide become navigable at high tide, allowing laden ships to leave port safely. This means that there are limited times in the day that ships can enter and leave port. This spell draws a magical high tide to an area chosen by the caster, which is maintained for as long as the caster concentrates. The swell is enough to float a large ship and the caster is able to move the tide in relation to the ship. The effect Duration is Concentration, which means the caster may need to maintain concentration for some time, likely an hour or two. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration, +1 Part, +3 size)''
''Required Lab Total: 1 season (70), 2 seasons (53), 3 seasons (47), 4 seasons (44) If designed in the Hermetic Shipyard, this spell benefits from a +1 bonus to the laboratory total for each of Rego and Aquam.''
''Lifting the Storm''
''ReAu 45 R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group Poor weather can keep ships anchored in harbor for weeks, while their captains wait for the weather to turn. This spell controls even the strongest of storms, carving a channel through the weather through which ships can sail. Note that the spell is powerful enough to lift a storm across a harbor, but the effect is somewhat localized. This means that the weather may still be problematic out to sea, but at least the ships are able to safely leave the more treacherous inshore waters. The Sun duration allows multiple ships to sail under a single casting. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +2 size) Required Lab Total: 1 season (90), 2 seasons (68), 3 seasons (60), 4 seasons (57) If designed in the Hermetic Shipyard, this spell benefits from a +1 bonus to the laboratory total for each of Rego and Auram.''

==Ships Made From Unusual Materials==

''The following effects provide alternatives that allow a magus to conjure a ship out of unusual materials, for use in exceptional circumstances.''
''The Houseboat''
''Mu(Re)Te(He) 44 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R:Touch, D:Sun, T: Structure''

[|

==Story Seed: The White Whale==

''There are tales of a great white whale that swims the frozen seas of the far north. Some say that it lives in the Magic Realm but enters the world of men to hunt. The last known sighting is recorded in the journal of an old Tyta''
''lus, now living out his days at Fudarus. The Tytalus is willing to help the magi find the whale, but it soon becomes apparent he has his own reasons, reasons that endanger both the venture and the magi themselves.''

==Story Seed: The Ship of the Damned==

''Some magi have become so obsessed with death that they immerse themselves in its trappings. As the Hermetic shipwright is not limited in the materials he can use to build ships, a death-obsessed magi, such as the magus who follows the path to lichdom, approaches him to build a vessel to his design. The ship is to be constructed out of''
''bones and the sails stitched from skins. The magus also wants a ghostly crew bound to the ship to serve as its captain commands. Does the shipwright take the commission? Where does he get the supply of bone for the ship’s hull? What effects does he need to create to make the ship seaworthy? And how does he hide the construction from the mundane world?''

|]
''When hammered into the floor of a freestanding structure, this large iron nail reforms the building into a boat of approximately the same size as the structure, changing the nature of the materials such that stone becomes buoyant. The Rego requisite reshapes the building into a seaworthy vessel. The specifics of the design can be amended with each casting, but the origins of the boat are clear, with the roof turned into a hull, or a chimney stack turned into a mast. The caster must make a Perception + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to produce a seaworthy vessel and the effect is canceled by removing the nail, at which point the structure returns to its natural state, wherever it is. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Structure, +1 Herbam requisite, +1 stone; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (88), 2 seasons (66), 3 seasons (59), 4 seasons (55) If designed in the Hermetic Shipyard, this spell benefits from a +1 bonus to the laboratory total for the use of Rego, and a further +10 as the spell directly concerns ships.''
''The Sandship''
''Mu(Re)Te 49 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R:Touch, D:Sun, T: Part This staff, when struck into the sands of a shoreline, draws up the sand, shapes it, and transforms it into a ship of magical enchanted sand, the mast forming around the staff. The effect draws the sand together, forming a channel from the beach to the sea that this vessel can float down. The ship’s hull, deck, mast, and all other parts of it are made from sand, including the rigging and the sails. The ship maintains the appearance of wet sand throughout, but it is never truly waterlogged. The Art of Muto makes the sand light enough that it can float, ensures that it is non-porous so that water doesn’t seep through the hull, and''
''strengthens the structure to allow a crew to sail the ship. However, being made from sand, the ship is weak and cannot stand up to damage. If using the damaged goods rules from City & Guild, page 77, the ship has three damage levels but has a –5 penalty to any stress check made when the ship is put at risk of damage. A Perception + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 9 is required to make a seaworthy vessel. The effect is ended by drawing the staff from the ship’s mast. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +3 size, +2 intricacy; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (98), 2 seasons (74), 3 seasons (66), 4 seasons (62) If designed in the Hermetic Shipyard, this spell benefits from a +10 ships bonus to the laboratory total.''

==Support from Other Traditions==

''Beyond the Order of Hermes, there are others who know how to harness and direct natural and supernatural forces. Just as Hermetic magi might apply their skills to the building of ships, so might these other practitioners. In fact, the Hermetic''
''Shipwright may seek out and work with other traditions, to take advantage of their abilities where his own are lacking. The following presents further options for shipwright characters. Shipwrights are generally drawn from the learned class, and are able to apply their knowledge of the natural world through experimental philosophy (Art & Academe, page 67). But their arts are more inclined to assist individuals, rather than affect the vessel itself. They could be useful to shipwrights, as the charms they make provide bonuses to ability use, but the impact on the ship is likely to be minimal. Learned magicians (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 79) with the Mythic Alchemy virtue are able to prepare the raw materials used by craftsmen, so making the creation of superior goods easier. Being drawn from the educated community, such a magician may use his mundane and magical learning to forge a career as a shipwright. The vessels built by such a shipwright would be of the highest quality. The Vitki (Hedge Magic Revised Edition, page 120) are potent runesmiths with the ability to bind magical effects into objects by inscribing runic scripts into them. Viking longships were almost always decorated with runes, and the use of seafaring rune scripts is a common magical focus. The Vitki and related runesmiths can empower vessels without the need for seasons spent in a laboratory as the permanent inscription of runic effects (to calm storms around the ship or to speed the''
''ship along its journey, for instance) can be complete in days (see Ancient Magic, page 133). Sorcerers with knowledge of the goetic Art of Binding have the power to bind spirits into devices, ships in this case (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 117). While Binding is an Infernal power, spirits of any realm may be bound by the sorcerer. While bound, the spirit can use''
''any of its powers; where those powers affect the spirit itself, even those that allow it to enter and traverse the Magic Realm, those powers also affect the ship. The Goetic Binding power does something that current Hermetic magic cannot, and a Hermetic shipwright may either use this as the basis for original research to expand his own power, or simply call upon the services of a sorcerer to bind ap''
''propriate spirits to his vessels. But these powers are Infernal, and magi should be wary, lest they fall to temptation or give their enemies a means to tarnish their reputations. It is unclear how these exotic magics might interact with Hermetic enchantments, and attempts to do so would certainly mean experimenting within the laboratory.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
