''Now the whole earth had one language and few words. And as men migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. And they said to one another, ‘Come, let us make bricks, and burn them thoroughly.’ And they had brick for stone, and bitumen for mortar. Then they said, ‘Come, let us build ourselves a city, and a tower with its top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.’ And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the sons of men had built. And the Lord said, ‘Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language; and this is only the beginning of what they will do; and nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down, and there confuse their language, that they may not understand one another’s speech.’ So the Lord scattered them abroad from there over the face of all the Earth, and they left off building the city. Therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth; and from there the Lord scattered them abroad over the face of all the earth.''
''— Genesis 11:1-9''
''This chapter presents the building of the tallest tower the world has seen since man sought to reach the heavens at Babel. Such a tower goes far beyond a simple conjuration and becomes the object of a life’s work, not just for a single magus but for a covenant of magi, or perhaps generations of magi. While a shipyard, the quest for everlasting undeath, and a covenant hidden within a volcano are well''
''defined projects that magi and covenants can perhaps cooperate on, the tower provides a setting that grows over time, and against which the troupe can tell stories. The fruits of this project can be harvested throughout an entire saga, and maybe into the next, and become a unique setting in itself. Such a project and setting also provides an opportunity to inject elements of high fantasy into your Ars Magica saga, offering a contrast with the medieval tone suggested for standard sagas. Once the tower is established, it continues to provide troupes with the option for unusual and unique stories: exploration of the forgotten parts of the tower, beasts and spirits of the four realms claiming territory, and different levels of the tower acquiring their own motifs over time. The material presented here can be used in two ways. The project can be followed from its foundation through to its conclusion. As the tower grows, both in height and in terms of its enchantments, it provides the impetus for new stories. Over time, the tower itself becomes the backdrop against which the saga plays out. But the various enchantments explored later can also be applied to smaller, more conventional, structures, allowing players and troupes to pick and choose the effects they find useful. This helps support magi and covenants who take on the roles or guises of traveling mundane architects and masons, or even magi specializing in building covenants for other members of the Order. The story seeds and suggestions are also optional and troupes should not feel limited in the stories that they choose to tell.''
''But what kind of magus would dedicate his life to the building of such a vast tower? A Tytalus might enjoy the challenge, not only to his own power and ability, but to the natural order, eager to seek out and confront such supernatural powers as would oppose him. For a Verditius mason, the tower becomes his crowning achievement and perhaps one day hosts the grand competition. For the politicallyminded Bonisagus, perhaps the tower can offer a shining example of cooperation among individuals, covenants, and Houses. As a House, Tremere may seek to show leadership and power. Such a tower could reinforce the collective strength of the Order. A Criamon may be more interested in sending the tower through the divide between the mundane and the magical worlds, escaping time, or as an extension of their House motto that “The World Within is the World Without”. And scholars of magic from any House may look upon the tower as a chance to escape the earthly realm and chart the lunar sphere. But whatever the driving ideology, the magus who controls it essentially rules his own private kingdom.''

==The Tower of Babel==

''After the great flood that cleansed Earth of sin, the surviving peoples came together in the land of Sumer and built a great tower at the city of Babel. But this tower was not built for the glory or adula''
''tion of God. Instead, it was built for the glory of the men who commissioned it and those who built it. Sources disagree on the fate of the tower itself. While it is clear that the builders had their single language stricken from them, the book of Genesis simply says that building work on the tower stopped. Other sources indicate that the tower was toppled by a great wind, while Jewish tradition has it that the top was burned, the bottom swallowed up into the ground and the middle left to the ravages of time. The story of the tower sets humanity in competition with God, not humble before His wishes. But while the actions of humanity angered God, there is also a story of great cooperation. Could magi of the Order''
''tread the fine line between exemplifying the best of mankind and transgressing against God’s will? Vestiges of the Tower may be found in the Magic Realm, and maybe in more than one place and in more than one form. Some might reflect the unchecked pride of its architects, others might contain the finished tower as the purest extension of the plan. But aspects of the Tower of Babel are most likely to be found associated with faeries, where the stories of temptation, ambition, and pride feed those faeries with vitality. As such, there may be many faerie towers laying claim to either be the tower of Babel itself or be built from its ruins.''

==Medieval Buildings==

''Most buildings across Mythic Europe are functional: a cobbler’s shop, a farmer’s barn, or a serf’s home. But castles, churches, cathedrals, and even cities rise beyond simple buildings into works of art. Beyond any functional aspects, such buildings are built for prestige: primarily, the promotion and glory of a heavenly Lord or an earthly one, and secondarily, the promotion and pride of those who commission and build them. Cathedrals are among the largest and most artistically impressive buildings in Mythic Europe, while castles and city walls, though very large, offer little beyond defense. A particular fondness for the building of towers has grown up in the Italian city-states. These towers often exceed 100 feet in height and can take years to build. Their purpose is primarily as symbols of the importance, wealth, and power of the commissioning family, but they also serve as refuges and defensible positions during the all-too-frequent fighting between rival dynasties.''

==Mundane Architecture==

''Any construction is unlikely to succeed unless some kind of basic plan is used. For simple buildings, anything from outhouses to one-room dwellings, the craftsman himself can be assumed to have a sufficient plan in mind to complete the work. Anything larger requires an architect’s input. Architects are most likely educated, with either a Church or vernacular education, and able to read, write, and draft building plans. Their role involves not just the outward design of the building, but also calculating the various stresses upon the structure, determining the best use of space, and ensuring its stability. As a guideline, assume an architect must work a single season on designing''
''a standard structure, and one additional season for each size magnitude after that prior to building work beginning. So a structure of size +1, a moderate church or a series of town walls, requires two seasons of the architect’s time before construction can begin.''

==Construction Techniques==

''Construction techniques, like the designs themselves, are being refined all the time, but there are some key constants. Building takes a lot of raw materials, which need to be transported, and those working on the building need the skill and manpower to build towards the target design.''
''Raw Materials''
''Despite the army of craftsmen involved in constructing great buildings, the main cost comes from the raw materials, with stone needing to be quarried and transported, wood needing to be felled and prepared, and other materials such as glass expensive in their own right. With this in mind, everything is done to reduce the cost of materials as far as possible. This is why stone is usually shaped and carved at the quarry rather than at the building site, to make transport easier, quicker, and cheaper.''
''Falsework''
''Falsework is the term given to all temporary structures used in the construction of buildings. This generally breaks down into three types of falsework: scaffolding, centering, and shoring. Scaffolding provides temporary elevated platforms, allowing craftsmen and laborers access to raised parts of the building. Scaffolding can be built directly on the ground, extending upwards on rigid frames, or suspended from the building itself, usually through wooden beams extending from planned post-holes in the walls.''
''Centering consists of strong rigid frames designed in the shape of vaults and arches. They are built or moved into place and the stonework is built around these frames to ensure that the correct forms are achieved. The last type of falsework is shoring, which consists of temporary supports that bear the weight of a structure, keeping its proper alignment and shape, while the permanent supports are built.''
''Craftsmen and Artists''
''The main craftsman involved in building any tower is the mason. More than just a laborer or worker of stone, he is a learned engineer with knowledge of the Artes Liberales, an understanding of his raw materials, and the leadership to organize complex building projects. Masons are members of an international guild that governs their trade, and this guild is''
''a powerful presence at major works. There is more information on masons in City & Guild, page 59. Supporting the mason is an army of carpenters, joiners, blacksmiths, stonecutters, brick-layers, plasterers, and other laborers. All of these craftsmen, skilled in their own right, are further supported by local tradesmen selling food, lodging, clothes, tools, and other necessities. Construction projects of a certain size employ many masons. One of these is considered the master mason and is usually the architect of the project; his Ability scores should be used throughout. Every trade represented in the construction, from blacksmiths to carpenters, stone cutters to glaziers, is led by a master craftsman who is involved in the decision-making at the highest level. The construction of a building is only part of the project. Whether for the glory of the sponsor or for God, castles and cathedrals are augmented by the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds for Medieval Buildings==

''The Cracked Stone''
''When part of the construction collapses under its own weight, it is discovered that the stones have been intentionally and magically weakened. Construction must stop while the other stones are inspected, costing the project time and money. And with the quarry some miles distant, finding and stopping the culprit is no easy task.''
''The Apprentice''
''The master mason who has worked on the great tower for much of his life wants to leave, disillusioned at the endless nature of his allotted task. Facing opposition from the magi, he offers to train an apprentice to take over the work from him. Within the year, he presents his apprentice and leaves. It is only then that the magi discover that the apprentice has neither the abil''
''ity nor the leadership to manage the job. Do they go after their old master of works and hold him to his bond, or look elsewhere?''
''The Wisdom of Stone''
''After a new hall is built to support the prospering covenant, one of the covenfolk becomes obsessed with the edifice. His duties go ignored and, over the course of the season, he becomes more and more distracted and unpredictable. As the magi investigate they begin to see hidden messages within the architecture, messages that convey meaning. Before long, they realize that the entire hall contains knowledge of the Infernal. But to determine its content and purpose, one of the magi must risk corruption and study the building. The most urgent question, however, is who had the messages built into the hall in the first place, and why?''

|}
''works of master artists. Columns and ceiling vaulting are designed, stained glass installed, frescoes worked onto the walls, great tapestries created, and gold and silver ornaments and fixtures specially commissioned. More information on artists can be found in Art & Academe, page 114. It can take many years to build a castle or cathedral, so masons and artists alike put down roots in a city until the job is done, and then move on to the next city and the next edifice. Master masons are in high demand as every project wants the confidence and prestige of having the best craftsmen available. The workforce engaged to build a cathedral or castle is made up of around 3000 craftsmen and laborers consisting of:''
''• 400 masons • 200 quarrymen and stone cutters • 50 smiths and carpenters • 100 craftsmen of other trades such as''
''roofers, glass makers, and sculptors • 2000 laborers''
''As with so many activities, building tends to be seasonal work, taking advantage of the longest days and finest weather. Aside from potentially slowing the actual construction through shorter days, the winter months bring the cold and the rain, which prevents mortar from drying''
''properly. Much of the building work stops during the winter and is replaced with activities that can be performed inside, such as stone carving, carpentry, and outfitting the building.''

==Style, Symbolism, and Hidden Messages==

''The masons jealously guard the mysteries of their trade: the secrets of numbers, angles, and proportion that turn a simple building into a work of divine beauty. But these secrets can, by the insightful observer, be decoded and great knowledge gained. The Covenants supplement introduces the concept of the Great Work, a building or other construction that can be studied as a summa or tractatus. Any large construction costing 100 Mythic Pounds or more can be used as a Great Work (Covenants, page 102). There are no special rules for investing a building with knowledge, though a stone mason instructed to create a Great Work needs rudimentary knowledge of the subject matter. A character must be able to spend time at the Great Work, and perceive the medium through which the knowledge is transmitted, in order to study from it.''

==Laying the Foundations==

''This chapter makes few assumptions about where the tower is situated, and troupes should pick the kind of location that best supports the stories they want to tell.''

==Selecting the Site==

''A tower of unearthly proportions needs to be built on solid ground to support its size and weight. It also needs to be accessible, or made accessible, to the scores of craftsmen needed to build it and the raw materials that they need. Wherever the troupe chooses to erect the Great Tower, there are stories to be told in finding the right location.''
''The Ruins of Babel''
''Perhaps the most obvious site for the building of this Great Tower is the site of its inspiration, Babel itself. But to rebuild the tower, its location must first be found. The account of its building places it in the land of Shinar, between the Tigris and the Euphrates, in the Mythic Middle East. Little more than this is known, and magi need to explore if they are to find the ruins. Finding the ruins is only the start. As the site of a Divine intervention, the power of the Dominion is likely to be strong, both in terms of the aura and, possibly, of the lasting effects of God’s miracle. Do the magi find their revered Latin taken away from them, replaced by multiple unintelligible languages? Do the ghosts of those killed by the sundering of the tower still haunt the ruins as a warning to those who would repeat their mistake? Or can those same ghosts be drawn into rebuilding the tower? And what if the Dominion continues to prevent anything from being built there? Does the mortar refuse to set, do the stones crack and crumble as they are''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Exempli Gratia: The Thirteenth Tower==

''In the 35th year of the building of the Great Tower, one of the magi sets the craftsmen to work on a new slender tower constructed out of the Great Tower’s side. Under his guidance, the masons and sculptors create depictions of creatures and places the magus has seen in his long travels in the Magic Realm. The measurements, lines, and angles all bear significance for the boundaries and vestiges he crossed, and careful study of these elements, from the gallery that winds its way around the outside of the tower, may even pro''
''vide a map of sorts. The Thirteenth Tower can be studied as a summa on Magic Lore and if the masons and the supervising magus incorporate magical substances, such as vis or items of virtue collected from the Magic Realm, it gains a +3 bonus to quality due to the resonant materials used in its construction. A further +3 resonance bonus for additional components gained through stories, such as the bones of a dragon sought out and slain for the purpose, is also available (see Covenants, page 102).''

|}
''laid? What do the magi need to do to find an accord with God? But if the difficulties can be overcome, the ruins of the Tower of Babel could carry immense magical resonance; the site itself may generate an Aligned Aura (Realms of Power: Magic, page 15) with bonuses for the art of Terram or the Driven personality trait, or even any magic that assists in the construction of the Great Tower.''
''High in the Mountains''
''If the aim is to build the highest tower ever known to mankind, magi could look to the mountains for their site. Already''

==Site Story Seeds==

''The following story seeds support the suggested location possibilities:''
''Before the Fall''
''God’s will is ineffable and his might without limit; there is nothing He cannot do. The magi find the fabled ruins of the tower of Babel. But as they celebrate amid the sand and the stone, they suddenly find themselves at the foot of the tower, stretching into the distant sky. By some miracle, they have been transported to the days before the tower was sundered. Can they stop the tower from falling or is there a more important message to be learned? Are they dreaming, have they been driven mad, or have they been sent back in time? Maybe if they can find the answer, they can get home.''
''Persuasion''
''The most powerful and mystically aligned site for the tower has been found, high in the Alps. But the Tribunal of the Greater Alps is not known for its hospitality or its openness. If the tower is to be built, the Tribunal must be persuaded''
''one way or another, either from outside or from within.''
''The Undersea Kingdom''
''A far-off magical island has been found, and the magi have discovered a ruined submerged city capable of feeding their need for stone for decades. But the city is overrun with magical and faerie creatures. An accord must be reached, or a war the magi cannot win must be fought. But if there was a way to set the factions against each other, perhaps the magi could overcome a weakened enemy.''
''Echoes of an Idea''
''The idea of a tower that rises so far that it escapes the mortal world is so powerful that it echoes through the Magic Realm, creating vestiges before the tower itself has even been built. Several magi, recently returned from the Magic Realm, report seeing a never-ending tower, but each in a different place. Seen as an omen, news races through the Order. Could these echoes be used to find the perfect regio in which to house the Great Tower?''
''The Ghost of Seneca''
''A faerie appears to the magi, claiming to be the ghost of Seneca, bringing warnings of great calamity should the tower ever be built. No matter how effectively the “ghost” is banished, it still finds a way to come back. The magi want to get rid of it, for no other reasons than it’s scaring the laborers. Can the magi find another target for the faerie’s attentions? Perhaps another ambitious project with sponsors more susceptible to the faerie’s prophecies and protestations?''
''Decision Point''
''The tower has been started. The wealth of the magi has attracted the required workforce, drawing them away from projects sponsored by Church and Crown alike. As the tower grows, the magi face their first great challenge from the mundane world. A delegation of mundane nobles and churchmen demand that the construction be halted. If the magi accede to this demand, the world carries on as before, but ignore the demands and the Order asserts itself as a power in its own right.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Babel: Infernal or Divine?==

''Individual sagas may differ on whether the site of Babel carries an Infernal or a Divine aura, and storyguides are free to choose the one that best suits their needs. As a place where the will of God was made manifest on Earth, the site of the ancient tower may still be infused with God’s own presence. The tower, and by extension all of mankind who were responsible for its construction, continues to be used as an example of God’s dominion, and it can be expected that the site of the original tower will bear a powerful marker of this. This is the default assumption made in this chapter.''
''But the alternative is that God’s blessing was removed from the site, that the actions of those who chose to build the tower were driven by pride, greed, and all manner of sins. Such a place, cast aside from God’s protection, could become a bastion for evil, with ancient sins infused into the ruins of the tower. In either case, humanity is free to attempt a new construction, whether at Babel or elsewhere. Humanity has free will and God may choose to intervene, or not, at any point in the project. This free will, combined with God’s unknowable intentions, sets up one of the central conflicts inherent to this project.''

|}
''towering high above sea level and surrounded by raw material that can be used to build the Great Tower, the mountains seem ideal. But the difficulties are threefold. First, the elements will work against the project. It is hard enough just to survive in some of the higher regions, let alone build a supernaturally large tower. Second, while there may be plenty of stone to hand, the logistics of procuring all the other raw materials needed for the project would be daunting. Third, attracting, supplying, and retaining a workforce would be incredibly difficult, given the remoteness of the location and the harshness of the conditions. But there are possibilities. There are thriving communities in the mountainous regions of Mythic Europe, and a tower built close to these could draw upon a hardy workforce. And magic can be used to both protect the growing tower from the elements and ensure that supplies are provided despite the difficulties (perhaps using the sky ships discussed elsewhere in this book). As a further option, Chapter 2 looks at building a covenant within a volcano, a project which could be combined with building the Great Tower atop the volcano itself.''
''A Secluded Island''
''Magi with such an audacious idea may want to conduct their work away from the scrutiny of the mundane world and the interference of the Order. In that case,''
''a remote and secluded island may prove attractive. The difficulties here will be in transporting the raw materials and finding the workforce to work on the construction. What’s more, a secluded island will only remain so for a short while. Even many miles distant from land, the tower will soon start to become visible above the horizon.''
''Regiones and the Magic Realm''
''Existing in a layer above the mundane world, magical regiones may present an ideal location for the Great Tower. The aura in a magical regio is likely to be moderately strong, which enhances magical endeavors. The right regio may already be aligned in such a way that it further supports the building work. But the main advantage is that the work can progress and the tower can reach higher into the sky without exposing the mundane world to its ominous shadow. Echoes of the Great Tower are likely to be expressed in the regio levels around it, perhaps in more building work being carried out in the mundane level, and strange ethereal towers as the regiones extend to the Magic Realm. Of course, there are difficulties with this option. Mundanes are not used to the strange cosmology represented by regiones and this could become disruptive. Also, regiones typically attract magical creatures, most of which are unlikely to take kindly to such an intrusion. The Great Tower itself, though in danger of''
''warping under its own magic in any case, may become warped through exposure to a high magical aura, as can be found in a regio. Magi must also consider whether their own efforts are likely to diminish the power of the aura or regio through damaging a site of natural purity or beauty. And what would be the effect of the regio collapsing into the mundane world, taking the Great Tower with it?''
''A Symbol of Mundane Power''
''While the other options allow the magi to construct their tower more or less free from mundane scrutiny and jealousy, this option could be seen as a direct challenge to mundane authority. The tower may grow out of a more traditional covenant location, perhaps absorbing or replacing the existing covenant buildings. In this case, the tower has more of an influence on the mundane world with fear, resentment, and affronted pride playing more part in the stories to be told. As it can be construed as a challenge to the mundane order, the Order of Hermes may take a concerned stance, which suggests political stories as the magi seek to continue constructing the tower. This is also the option that has more chance of changing the dynamic of Mythic Europe, as the Great Tower could become a uniting force that brings potential mundane rivals together in the face of a larger potential threat.''

==Gaining Political Backing==

''With a site found and secured, the magi must now turn to their peers and gain sanction for, or at least acceptance of, their plans. The building of the Great Tower is not something that can be done in isolation and without word of it reaching the Order. There must be some kind of accord or else the project is doomed to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Seneca’s Folly==

''It is worth remembering that the building of a Great Tower has been attempted before, by the magus Seneca at Durenmar. Most agree that Seneca was not in full possession of his mental faculties, and all the remaining evidence of his construction suggests that the wooden tower was poorly conceived, with a design that hinged upon Seneca’s''
''mood on any given day. While Seneca’s aim may have been to build a colossal tower, records available in the library of Durenmar show that the tower never exceeded Durenmar’s other structures in height. However, this does little to reduce the value of the story of Seneca’s Folly as a cautionary tale of ambition and hubris outstripping capability.''

|}
''failure before it even starts. This may be easier in some Tribunals than others. The Tribunal of the Greater Alps is tightly controlled by centuries of tradition, and the magi there are unlikely to accept any new magi who cannot prove that they can support themselves. While it may easier to found a new covenant in Normandy, especially with the support of powerful patrons, the lands of France are the heartland of Mythic Europe. Mundane power rules supreme and a tower the size of a town or city may not be tolerated by the magi of Normandy, for fear of provoking the mundane nobles they share the land with. The Tribunal of Rome poses different challenges. While magi typically find it easy to establish covenants there, they do so in an unofficial capacity. They find themselves tolerated by the existing covenants so long as they offer no challenge to the convoluted status quo of both open and insidious conflict that reigns there. And magi seeking to build the Great Tower in Iberia will quickly find themselves pressured by both Christian and Moorish''
''nobles to support one side or the other in controlling the peninsula. The Tribunals of Stonehenge, Loch Leglean, and Hibernia still hold both ancient magic and remote wilderness. The more distant reaches of these places may hold the key, especially if the Great Tower can be seen as a way to draw those Tribunals towards the center of Hermetic politics and influence. The same can also be said of the more distant reaches of the Order, such as Novgorod or the Levant, especially if the tower can be used to either secure new unclaimed land or to wrest it away from their Hermetic neighbors.''

==Building the Tower==

''To give an indication as to how big this tower is intended to be, Lincoln Cathedral, started in 1092 (and not due to be finished until 1311) reaches over 500 feet''
''tall and is easily one of the tallest buildings in Mythic Europe. The Pharos lighthouse at Alexandria, fabled as it is, does not pass even 450 feet. To put that in perspective, the tallest peaks in the Alps exceed 15,000 feet, and this Great Tower is designed to exceed even that scale, though perhaps not within the lifetime of any one magus.''

==Designing the Tower==

''It is for individual troupes to determine the style and design of the tower they want to create, but the following elements are likely to play a part. The ritual magic described later, and the assumptions concerning mundane craftsmen, are based on a circular tower structure a little over a mile in circumference, around 2000 feet in diameter, and with individual levels each 20 feet tall. The foundations are likely to be columns sunk into the earth. These columns would take and spread the weight of the tower, with more pillars being sunk across a wider area as the tower grows in height.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Political Story Seeds==

''These story seeds are concerned with getting support for the project:''
''The Shame of Seneca’s Folly''
''With word of the intended tower spreading across the Order, the covenant of Durenmar announces that it will finally make its position known. It is an influential voice and one that could end any talk of the Great Tower. Those behind the project must approach Durenmar and persuade the Primus to side with the project. But it quickly becomes apparent that the shame of Seneca’s folly in attempting just such a project still sits heavy with House Bonisagus. The Primus will never allow another tower to be attempted where Seneca, Durenmar, and House Bonisagus failed. But if Seneca’s legacy''
''could be reassessed, perhaps with proof brought before the Order to absolve Seneca and Durenmar of outright folly, then House Bonisagus would be indebted and would be prepared to support the Great Tower. With the library of Durenmar at their disposal, the magi must find the evidence that House Bonisagus requires, whether it already exists or not.''
''The Vision''
''With a project of this scale, the magus must decide whom to involve in its creation. What if he tells someone who objects on strong religious grounds, seeing the tower as an affront to God’s ineffable will? Or perhaps worse, what if he involves a magus with too much zeal for the project, a magus who seeks to control''
''the project and claim the vision for his own? These reactions give rise to conflict that the magus must address while also building his tower.''
''Shaken Conviction''
''The magus discovers that someone close to him, who has advised him and encouraged him in this project, has been possessed by a demonic spirit of temptation or pride for several years. Called to speak on his behalf at Tribunal, to tell the council what he knows of his friend and his actions, the magus soon finds his intended project the focus of the Tribunal’s inquiries. The magus must convince the Tribunal that the Great Tower is not a thing born of corruption, even if it means deserting his long-time friend and ally.''

|}
''The area between these pillars could be turned into cellars, cisterns, sewers, and crypts, all of which offer atmospheric backdrops to scenes and stories. As the tower grows in height it also spreads out at its base. Additional pillars, towers, and buttresses need to be built to support the unnaturally tall structure. Given the scale, each of these separate structures could gain its own purpose, perhaps being governed by a separate magus. One way to reduce the amount of building required is to leave a central shaft to run through the center of the tower. It would eventually be criss-crossed with bridges and galleries. For simplicity, these are not taken into account when considering how long the tower takes to construct; they should be used as background flavor as the construction progresses. Given the immense size of the tower, staging areas may be built every thousand feet. These areas would allow the movement of materials up and down the structure; stone would be lifted from the staging area below before being sent up to the next one. These staging areas would be covered with cranes and windlasses, car''
''penters, stone-cutters, and all manner of other craftsmen. The tower would be covered with balconies, some to act as observation platforms allowing magi to observe the heavens and conduct their experiments, others to receive the enchanted crawlers that scale the tower taking passengers from level to level. Some might even be dedicated mooring points for the flying ships commissioned from Hermetic shipwrights. As the pinnacle of magical achievement, there are bound to be many grand''
''spaces: halls and cloisters, libraries, and laboratories. If the magi of the tower have pretensions of holding Tribunals, councils, and competitions within the tower, then grand amphitheaters may be built to house them. Conversely, many areas of the tower may eventually be left empty, cold, and silent while life carries on elsewhere. These areas provide quiet and secluded spaces where intrigue can be carried out and powerful unseen beasts may make their lairs. As the tower approaches the size of a town, it needs to be supplied just as a town would. The tower must find ways to feed its inhabitants, and levels may be turned into gardens, fields, or orchards, with sunlight and rain brought magically from the outside.''
''Rate of Progress''
''While clearly slower than using magical rituals to create new levels of the tower, mundane craftsmen can be engaged to build the tower. This chapter assumes that a sufficient workforce can be retained and enough materials obtained to keep the building work going in perpetuity. If using the rules on page 68 of City & Guild, a mason with a Craft: Mason score of 5 can build one complete level, 20 feet tall, of the Great Tower each season. This means that four new levels can be completed every year. To maintain such a sustained effort, the mason needs sufficient assistants to ensure he is not forced to spend every''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Covenant Boons and Hooks==

''If you are using the Covenants supplement, the Great Tower naturally provides a number of Boons and Hooks  as it grows (pages 6–25). The Vast and Labyrinthine Minor Fortification Boon clearly represents the target state of the tower, with no living person having explored the entire building and discrete communities living almost independently within the tower. The founding covenant may''
''become Indebted (as the Major or Minor Resource Hook) due to the huge magical and mundane cost of supporting the ongoing construction. Echoing the idea that communities may divide within the tower, the Major Residents Hooks Divided Loyalty and Fractured Council may develop as the tower matures. And the Dedicated Covenant Major External Relations Boon is certainly appropriate for such a single-minded covenant.''

|}
''season on the project. Given the scale of tower, this is a generous speed and is far quicker than most mundane building work. Individual troupes should feel free to reduce or increase the rate of progress to suit their own play style. For comparison, the Tower of London took around 20 years to complete, and the cathedral at Chartres, started in 1194, will not be completed until 1260. Allowing a constant rate and no other modifiers, the Great Tower grows by 560 feet between Tribunal meetings and 2,640 feet between Grand Tribunal meetings. However, there are magical effects described in the sections later that enable the mason to complete this work more quickly by providing bonuses to his Craft: Mason ability. When the mason has an effective score of 10, his work rate doubles and eight new levels can be built each year. When he reaches an effective score of 15, 12 levels per year are achievable. The list below describes the rate of progress on a building’s height (given in feet) based on varying Craft: Mason scores.''
''Craft: Mason Score of 5 Progress Per Year: 80 ft Progress Per Tribunal: 560 ft Progress Per Apprenticeship: 1,200 ft Progress Per Grand Tribunal: 2,640 ft''
''Craft: Mason Score of 10 Progress Per Year: 160 ft Progress Per Tribunal: 1,120 ft Progress Per Apprenticeship: 2,400 ft Progress Per Grand Tribunal: 5,280 ft''
''Craft: Mason Score of 15 Progress Per Year: 240 ft Progress Per Tribunal: 1,680 ft Progress Per Apprenticeship: 3,600 ft Progress Per Grand Tribunal: 7,920 ft''
''Storyguides may also wish to slow the rate of construction as the tower grows larger, due to the increased effort involved in supplying the work with raw materials. But the important measure of the tower’s progress is the pace of your saga. During the early years, the tower grows''
''from an idea to an unnatural size. As the saga matures and the magi at its center gain in power, the tower starts to express more of its own character and becomes a thriving community in its own right. And if the story of the tower is due to finish with your saga, then build the tower’s final stages into the final stories of your saga. The actual height of the tower is not as important as the stories told throughout its construction.''

==Workshops==

''Hermetic magi have their laboratories, and mundane craftsmen have their workshops. The City & Guild supplement provides guidelines for these workshops (page 65), and how they allow craftsmen to produce fine examples of their skill. If using the rules in City & Guild, treat the entire building operation as the master mason’s workshop. By improving his workshop through''
''innovation, and finding a supply of superior raw materials, the mason can increase his Workshop Total:''
''Workshop Total: Intelligence + Craft: Mason + Innovation + Raw Materials''
''The Workshop Total is then compared against the following Craft Levels to judge the quality of the construction.''
''Craft Level For Shoddy Items: 3 Craft Level For Standard Items: 6 Craft Level For Superior Items: 12 Craft Level For Excellent Items: 15''
''Superior and Excellent items provide a bonus toward activities for which the item is designed. In the case of the tower, the troupe may decide that the bonuses apply to living conditions or strength (see stress checks later). Note that only the latest quality is used for these bonuses, as a poor craftsman may introduce defects on top''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==De Architectura==

''Tractatus Craft: Mason (Quality 8), Tractatus Artes Liberales (Quality 8), Tractatus Mechanica of Heron (Quality 7) Author: Vitruvius, a Roman engineer Availability: Rare and expensive, acquiring a copy is a story event involving wealthy patrons. Description: De Architectura is one of very few surviving texts from the ancient world concerning architecture and engineering. It discusses not just the architecture of individual buildings, but also the planning of whole towns and cities. Entire volumes are also dedicated to smaller engineering tasks, such as water wheels, siege engines, and even automata powered by water, steam, and air. Copies of this text, which consists of ten volumes, are rare. Upon its rediscovery, the original text was taken to the Charlemagne’s scriptorium, which then controlled access to it''
''and any resulting copies. The full text is a mixture of Latin and Greek. In particular, the material concerning automata is written entirely in Greek. The surviving work has very few remaining diagrams. Vitruvius also makes many references to older and now-forgotten architects who came before him and he lists the virtues that buildings should possess as firmitas, utilitas, and venustas, i.e., they must be robust, functional, and attractive. Special Rule: Owning a copy of De Architectura provides a +1 bonus to a Mason’s Workshop Innovation Score (to a maximum of +3). Given the significant material concerning hydraulics, pneumatics, and automata, the book can be studied to gain knowledge and insight into the lore of Mechanica of Heron, as described in the Ancient Magic supplement (pages 75–88).''

|}
''of sturdy work, just as a master craftsman may make good on the flaws and mistakes of his predecessor. The enchantments that follow list a number of devices that contribute to the mason’s Workshop Total.''
''Damage and Disrepair''
''If using the damage rules in City & Guild, the number of damage levels an item has is dependent on two factors: its quality and its size (page 77). An item of shoddy quality has a base of 1 damage level, an item of standard quality has a base of 2 damage levels, an item of superior quality has 3 damage levels, and an item of excellent quality has a base 4 damage levels. The tower itself has a multiplier of x4 as it is size 10 or greater. This gives the tower 4, 8, 12, or 16 damage levels respectively. If the tower is built entirely through Creo rituals, assume a standard quality with a base of 2 damage levels if the Finesse roll succeeds, and a base of 1 damage level if any of the required Finesse rolls fail. As the tower continues to grow, base the total damage levels on the lowest quality work currently represented in the tower. This means that the number of damage levels may decrease as well as increase, representing potential weaknesses introduced into the structure. A season of work by a master mason and his team, dedicated to undertaking repairs and restructuring, can improve a section of tower from shoddy to''
''standard quality. Certain events that carry the risk of damaging the tower force a stress check.''
''Stress Check: stress die + modifiers vs. Ease Factor 15''
''The following table lists some appropriate modifiers:''
''Situation Modifier Craft: Mason + Ability score Previously repaired –1 Shoddy –1 Superior +1 Excellent +3''
''Some of the enchantments listed later also provide modifiers to the stress check. While the Great Tower has fewer damage levels than its great size might suggest,''
''it only needs to make stress checks during the following events:''
''• Severe storms and hurricane winds • Fires both inside and outside the''
''tower • Earthquakes or subsidence • Magical or mundane assault''
''Storyguides may want to assign stress check modifiers based on the severity of the event. Lost damage levels represent partial collapses somewhere inside the tower, at its outer walls, or even potentially at its foundations. These are significant events and should include story effects. For instance, the covenant’s library may be damaged as part of a collapse and the magi and their covenfolk must salvage what they can from the rubble, or race against time to find and rescue the librarian trapped beneath tons of stone. Damage to the tower can be repaired by the master mason spending a dedicated season for each damage level to be repaired. No other construction work, magical or mundane, can take place during this time.''

==Fostering an Aura==

''Magi gain the most benefit from working within Magical auras and will likely seek out a site with an existing Magic aura in which to build their tower, and''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Hermetic Architecture==

''As discussed in Chapter 4, The Hermetic Shipyard, the Hermetic Architecture Virtue can be applied to enchant things too large to fit inside even a hugely modified laboratory (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 97). The tower at the heart of this project is such a thing. While the cost of enchanting the tower as a whole may not in itself be prohibitive (the cost of opening a castle of size +10 made of hard stone (x4) is 40 pawns of vis), it is not viable to build''
''a laboratory so large that it contains the growing tower. The options are to enchant specific devices that can be used or embedded within the tower, or to use Hermetic Architecture to craft mystically-tied devices that bind their magic to the tower. This chapter does not explore the effects that Hermetic Architecture might produce, but troupes are encouraged to use that Virtue if they want to enchant the tower as a single device.''

==Using Alchemy to Support Craftsmen==

''The learned magicians detailed in the Hedge Magic Revised Edition supplement have access to the Mythic Alchemy Virtue (page 81). This allows them to create reagents, as described in Art & Academe, that reduce the Ease Factor for crafting Superior and Excellent items (page 74). If using those rules, a Slight Alteration subtracts 1 from the Ease Factor, a Minor Alteration subtracts 2, a Substantial Alteration subtracts 3, and''
''a Major Alteration subtracts 4 from the Ease Factor. If not using the rules, assume a dedicated season spent by the alchemist is enough to process enough raw material using a Minor Alteration to keep the work supplied. The magus driving the project may seek out and retain one or more learned magicians schooled in Mythic Alchemy to keep his mason supplied with the best possible materials.''

|}
''the activity of magi can strengthen even the slightest Magical aura. Realms of Power: Magic provides rules for strengthening and weakening magic auras (page 10). From those, we can see that the more laboratory work is undertaken, the greater the chance of the aura strengthening. This is further increased by expending raw vis in study, spellcasting, or certamen.''
''The Presence of Angels, Demons, and the Fair Folk''
''While magical activity strengthens the Magic aura surrounding the Great Tower, the motives and secrets of those who live there may attract other powers. Angels may be drawn to those they must protect, guide, or judge; demons seek opportunities to corrupt and ensnare. Meanwhile, faeries, like moths to a candle, flit around the magi of the tower drawing vitality from their troubles and triumphs. All of these bring the possibility of pockets of foreign auras being created within the Great Tower.''

==Enchantments==

''There are three types of enchantment described in this section. The first assists in the building of the Great Tower, providing magical means of speeding up the construction work. The second set of effects represents everyday magic used within the tower, while the third governs the tower’s connection to the outside world.''

==Construction Magic==

''The most obvious way to begin the construction of the Great Tower is to create a vast tower through ritual magic. The existing Conjuring the Mystic Tower ritual (ArM5, page 153) widely known across the Order does just this, but the tower it creates is somewhat mundane in its pro''
''portions, being only 80 feet tall. To even start the Great Tower, a much more potent ritual needs to be invented, and such a ritual may be beyond the abilities of a single magus to achieve without collaboration. But with that ritual in place, the magus can then invent another ritual to conjure further levels onto the tower. The risks associated with Creo rituals mean that they cannot be used to indefinitely build the Great Tower. In that case, various smaller effects to make the work of mundane craftsmen easier can be created. Both Creo rituals and Rego craft magic rely on the Finesse ability to ensure the quality of conjured and worked things. Creo rituals always produce items that are at least the right sort of thing and are fit for their intended purpose. The aesthetic quality may be lacking given a low Finesse roll but sections of tower created through Creo ritual magic only fail if the roll botches. A failed Finesse roll creates a section of tower of shoddy quality, while a successful roll creates a standard quality section, which has a bearing on how robust the tower is. See ArM5, page 77, for a discussion of Creo magic and Finesse. Magi and their craftsmen alike would do well to learn and practice Finesse, so that spells and enchanted tools can be used to best effect. Many of the craft magic devices later give the mason a bonus to his Craft: Mason score for determining how long a given level of the tower takes to complete. The bonuses from each device are cumulative, but each type of device can only be counted once, so two chisels enchanted with the same craft magic effect only provide the bonus once. The total bonus received by the mason is capped by his Craft: Mason score.''
''Conjuring the Great Tower''
''CrTe 55 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual This ritual creates the foundations and first two levels of the tower. As the ritual''
''concludes, the walls of a vast tower rise from the ground, surrounding those taking part in the ritual. The walls are vast, but the real power of the spell is shown below ground. The foundations extend deep into the earth, forming cellars, crypts, and cisterns between the immense stone pillars driven into the ground. The time taken to develop this ritual is spent not only in learning how to draw the complex magical forces together, but also in designing the foundations and the lowest levels of the tower, which are filled with rooms, cloisters, courtyards, and arcades. Creo magic that creates artificial things, such as this huge tower, requires an Int + Finesse stress roll against an Ease Factor, in this case, of 12. If the roll fails, the tower is still successfully conjured but may require additional work to improve its appearance or to repair defects introduced by the casting. A failed Finesse roll creates a section of tower of shoddy quality, while a successful roll creates a standard quality section. If the Finesse roll botches, the foundations are not strong enough to support the tower and a stress check against damage is required each year. The +7 magnitudes for size creates a circular tower of two levels, 2,000 feet in diameter, standing 40 feet above ground level. The high modifier for the elaborate design is required for the precise placement of the foundations, a hugely important factor in a tower this large. Casting this ritual causes a +1 preternatural tether, as per Realms of Power: Magic, page 10. If the site has no supernatural aura, this creates a level one Magic aura. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +7 size, +4 elaborate design) Required Lab Total: 1 season (110), 2 seasons (83), 3 seasons (74), 4 seasons (69) The high Lab Total required to invent this ritual may persuade a magus to invest time in designing a laboratory to help with this and later effects. And even after such bonuses as that provides, experimentation may still be an attractive option. Side effects may include the over-expression of the magus’ sigil or per''
''sonality in the tower, or the tower may be made of an unknown stone, the properties of which the magus must investigate. They may also make the Finesse roll more difficult as the magical energies strain away from where the magus tries to direct them.''
''Heights of the Great Tower''
''CrTe 50 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual This ritual conjures four fully-formed levels of the Great Tower, each 20 feet in height and building directly onto the level below, adding 80 feet to the tower in an instant. As with conjuring the foundations, this ritual requires an Int + Finesse stress roll against an Ease Factor of 12. A failed Finesse roll creates a section of tower of shoddy quality, while a successful roll creates a standard quality section. Botch dice on this Finesse roll are equal to 1 + 1 for each other level where the magus failed to meet the Finesse roll (failures should be recorded for future reference). This represents the inherent complexities and dangers of the project. Botches on this roll should be handled as story events, but clearly a botch in creating and assembling several thousand tons of stone is going to be significant. As the tower grows, the complexity of controlling the magic also grows, as does the risk of disaster, which may act as a limiting factor on the number of levels a magus would feel safe in conjuring. Note that by increasing the level of this spell by one magnitude, 40 levels of the tower could be produced, and 400 levels could be produced by increasing the spell by two magnitudes. But doing so should have a direct impact on the number of botch dice for the required Finesse roll. For each additional magnitude of size, add +3 to both the botch dice and the Finesse roll Ease Factor. Casting this spell creates a preternatural tether of 1 and adds +1 to the aura variation modifier.''
''(Base 3, +1 Touch, +7 size, +3 elaborate design) Required Lab Total: 1 season (100), 2 seasons (75), 3 seasons (67), 4 seasons (63)''
''The Quarryman’s Gift of (Stone)''
''CrTe 35 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual Safer than conjuring thousands of tons of stone atop an already growing tower, this spell creates enough stone for quarrymen and stone cutters to keep mundane craftsmen supplied for as long as it takes to build one new level. The amount of stone created is vast, something like ten million tons, or a block of stone 215 paces on each side. The type of stone created is particular to the ritual’s design, so variants must be designed for each of granite, limestone, and marble, for instance. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +7 size) Required Lab Total: 1 season (70), 2 seasons (53), 3 seasons (47), 4 seasons (44)''
''The Arms of Hercules''
''ReHe 40 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Sight, D: Concentration, T: Group This large crane is used by mundane craftsmen to raise blocks of stone from hundreds of feet below them to where they need it, solving two problems from which its mundane counterparts suffer. First, it can move the stone from any point that the operator can see to any other such place under the operator’s guidance. Second, the crane can effortlessly lift huge weights in a controlled manner where others strain and buckle. The Arms of Hercules is a huge wooden structure, requiring 10 pawns of vis to prepare it for enchantment. As a crane, it provides a shape bonus of +5 to effects that lift things. This effect only uses four of the available 10 pawns of space in the device.''
''The Group target, combined with an additional magnitude for size, allows the crane to lift 100 cubic paces of stone blocks with each use. Use of the Arms of Hercules crane adds +1 to the Mason’s Craft: Mason ability for the purposes of determining how long the structure takes to build (City & Guild, page 68). (Base 4, +3 Sight, +1 Concentration, +1 Group, +1 Size; +10 Unlimited Use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (80), 2 seasons (60), 3 seasons (54), 4 seasons (50) The crane’s shape bonus provides +5 to the Lab Total.''
''True Falsework''
''ReHe 30 Pen: +0, 24/day R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group A character using this enchanted leather glove is able to build a discrete section of falsework, scaffolding, shoring, or centering in a moment by touching the glove to a pile of wood and rope. Wooden dowels are formed to pin the joints together, which are strengthened with the rope to provide a stable structure. The falsework can be of any design. The standard Rego craft magic Perception + Finesse stress roll is required against a variable Ease Factor:''
''Falsework Ease Factor Scaffolding 9 Shoring 12 Centering 15''
''Particularly elaborate falsework may have higher Ease Factors. Having one or more characters use the glove for a year adds +1 to the mason’s Craft: Mason score for the purposes of determining how much is achieved during that year. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 flexibility; +5 24/day) Required Lab Total: 1 season (60), 2 seasons (45), 3 seasons (40), 4 seasons (38) The Lab Total benefits from a +4 bo''
''nus for affecting things by touch, due to its Shape and Material bonus as the effect is enchanted into a glove.''
''The Stonemason’s Art''
''Re(Pe)Te 15 Pen: +0, Unlimited use R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Given a single block of stone, this chisel enchanted with a Rego craft magic effect chips away at the stone under the control of its wielder to create the correctly formed shape, be it part of a column, a ceiling rose, or a fully-formed statue. A Per + Finesse stress roll is required to control this spell against an Ease Factor that increases with the complexity of the piece.''
''Item Ease Factor An even stone block 9 A column drum 12 A ceiling vault rib 15''
''Use of this device adds +1 to the mason’s Craft: Mason when determining how long construction takes. The Perdo requisite is required as the spell does not simply process or rearrange components but diminishes the stone, by destroying parts of the block, in order to do its work. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +1 stone, +1 flexibility; +10 for unlimited use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (30), 2 seasons (23), 3 seasons (20), 4 seasons (19) This device is best designed as a lesser enchantment, as even a small iron tool takes 10 pawns of vis to prepare for enchantment. The shape of the chisel provides a bonus of +4 to shape or destroy stone, which means that the magus only needs a Lab Total of 26 to enchant this effect in a single season. Experimentation may help to reach this, in which case the chisel may produce particularly attractive or unsightly work, or may introduce flaws to the stones that may only be noticed when it is too late.''
''The Laborer’s Rest''
''ReTe 25 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Voice, D: Concentration, T: Individual This small wooden wand allows the wielder to move blocks of stone with the power of his voice. The blocks are hefted into the air by magical forces, following their master’s commands. Use of this device adds +1 to the mason’s Craft: Mason when determining how long construction takes. (Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration, +1 stone; +10 for unlimited use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (50), 2 seasons (38), 3 seasons (34), 4 seasons (32) The wand provides a +4 bonus to control things at a distance. Experimentation may distort the effect, so that any one stone block can only be targeted once, or the effect might be restricted to certain types of stone.''
''The Water Wheel''
''ReHe 44 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Arcane Connection, D: Sun, T: Group This water wheel is seeded with arcane connections to other water wheels located elsewhere in the tower. As another water wheel is made, one of the slats of the wheel is processed to make a fixed arcane connection. This arcane connection is then fitted into the central wheel, allowing the device to act over the remote wheel. As the main water wheel turns, each other wheel to which it has an arcane connection turns at the same pace, as though it was pushed by the same force of water. By tying the action of the targets to the action of this wheel, the base effect is reduced, from moving the target in an unnatural fashion to a natural fashion, because of the action of the water. In this way, the central water wheel powers grain mills, forges, cranes, and other devices. Each craftsman that can make use of a wheel gains a +1 Innovation bonus to''
''his Workshop Total. This cannot take the workshop’s total innovation bonus beyond +3. (Base 3, +4 Arcane Connection, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +1 size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (88), 2 seasons (66), 3 seasons (59), 4 seasons (55) The shape of the wheel provides a +2 bonus to constant effects.''
''The Flying Buttress''
''ReTe 29 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual One distinctive feature of cathedrals across Mythic Europe is the set of external supports, or buttresses, that help strengthen and support the structure’s walls. These work by distributing the weight, load, and lateral forces placed on the structure by its own mass and, in particular, the roof. Buttresses in mundane buildings need to be anchored firmly into the ground to disperse the forces, but this is impossible with the Great Tower. In this case, the buttresses must support themselves through Rego magic. These devices take the form of small pillars external to the Great Tower. They are connected through stonework built out from the tower to the buttress, usually in a sweeping arch, but a straight bridge of stone may be used. Each buttress is enchanted such that the pillar floats in mid-air and resists all attempts to move it from its position. This provides a +1 modifier to stress checks against events that threaten to damage the tower. The Great Tower can benefit from a number of these devices equal to the master mason’s Craft: Mason score. The buttress may be used for other purposes, such as a supporting a watchtower, though building any more than a simple room on top of the pillar detracts from its primary purpose and negates the +1 bonus. The additional magnitudes for size in''
''the effect design ensure that the buttress resists the weight of the tower bearing down on it. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 stone, 3 size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (58), 2 seasons (44), 3 seasons (39), 4 seasons (37) The relatively low lab totals required for this device means that it could be enchanted as a lesser device in a single season. The resulting lab text makes subsequent copies easier still.''

==The Tower’s Environment==

''The following enchantments are used to make life within the Great Tower safer and easier.''
''The Traveling Laboratory''
''This laboratory is designed so that it can be taken down and reassembled in another room. It is specialized to enchant entire rooms, including items and devices installed into rooms; rather than having the thing to be enchanted contained within the laboratory, the laboratory exists within the target device. The laboratory is flexible enough that rooms, corridors, and cloisters can be enchanted, the shape of the laboratory adapting to its target. Any space that meets the minimum size for an Hermetic laboratory can be enchanted. The central feature of this laboratory is the scaffolding that is assembled along each wall of the target room. This is configured to allow the magus to inspect every part of every wall, and both the floor and ceiling without causing disruption to any part of them. All of the tools, equipment, and materials are suspended on large boards, strung from the scaffolding. To the untutored eye, the laboratory looks like the scaffolding used by artists when painting large frescoes on chapel walls and ceilings. Designing the laboratory is the work''
''of a number of seasons but the end result is a laboratory with the following statistics, Virtues & Flaws, and specializations.''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Feature, Highly Organized, Mobile; Elementary, Greater Focus Characteristics: Size –3 (0), Refinement 0, General Quality –3, Upkeep –3, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health –3, Aesthetics 2 Specializations: +1 Experimentation, +7 Rooms''
''The Greater Feature and Focus are responsible for the room specialization, while Mobile allows the laboratory to be easily packed up and moved from room to room. The Elementary flaw represents the limited features that the laboratory provides. The laboratory does have the Highly Organized virtue, which it needs to work around some of its limitations. The laboratory room specialization applies to all things that generally make up a room, such as the entire room itself, the floor, ceiling, doors, and windows. Things that could be found in a room, such as chairs, tables, or beds, are not covered by the specialization merely by being within a room; in fact, usually the room must be cleared of all such clutter for the laboratory to be assembled. Devices designed to be installed into a location, such as an enchanted circle or magical window, are covered by this specialization. The General Quality of –3 is applied to all lab activities, including those concerning rooms. This makes a net +4 bonus to effects enchanted into rooms.''
''Wall Crawler''
''This device is modeled after a spider of huge proportions, clinging to the outside wall of the Great Tower. Its body is fitted with mechanical, articulated legs and it pulls a carriage slung below it. The crawlers are used to take passengers up, down, and around the tower, coming to rest at special balconies dotted about the walls.''
''Note, the actual design of the carriage and its spider-like means of locomotion is essentially cosmetic, and the device is not truly mechanical. Once animated through the Rego enchantment, it takes on the appearance of an automaton, but no such mysteries are at work. The size of the device means that it would be costly to prepare for enchantment. So instead, the magic is enchanted into a small copper spider embedded into the larger mechanical. An alternative is to enchant the mechanical spider itself as a lesser enchanted device, though this still requires a large laboratory.''
''The Spider’s Gift ReTe 34 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual This is the effect that allows the Wall Crawler both to cling to the wall with no danger of falling, and to move itself under direction from the occupants of the carriage trailing behind the great iron spider. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Metal, +2 Size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise and sunset) Required Lab Total: 1 season (68), 2 seasons (51), 3 seasons (46), 4 seasons (43) The shape of the spider provides a bonus of +5 to effects concerning climbing.''
''The Distant Council Chamber''
''Magi living in the Great Tower may not necessarily spend their time together as magi in other covenants do, but they must still come together for councils to decide covenant and tower business. To facilitate this, each magus in the tower can create an enchanted wooden circle that is set into the floor of his sanctum or another chamber of his choosing. This forms part of the floor but is well defined through an outer ring. The wooden ring has an arcane connection to a further remote iron ring set into the floor of the council chamber, which could be anywhere within the''
''tower. When the magus enters the circle set into his chambers, his image and the image of everything else within that circle is displayed in the remote, central circle. In addition, everything visible within that remote circle is also copied and made visible to the magus. In this way, as magi join the council, they become visible to those already in session. It is likely that covenants using such a device will use a large circle in each cham''
''ber, with each circle containing identical trappings. For instance, members of the covenant may each have a copy of the council room table within their circles, and each magus may have an appointed place around that table. To secure the arcane connection to the central council circle, a season is first spent magically forging a piece of that central iron circle into an iron nail. This takes the magus a season and a pawn of''

==Tower Environment Story Seeds==

''The Fallen Spider''
''One of the wall crawlers falls from the tower, something that should be impossible given the enchantment. It falls so far that little but a crater remains. But when the magi investigate, they find human remains, yet no sign of the crawler’s control mechanism. Was it stolen or destroyed? Is this a tragic accident or something more sinister? Perhaps communing with what’s left of the occupant may shed light on what happened.''
''The Dead Watcher''
''When the council is called to order, the magi discover the projection of a dead body in their council chamber. It appears that it is being produced by one of the circles used by each council member, but the body’s identity is unknown and all the known circles are accounted for. Who is it? How did he die? Does this mean the council has been spied upon? For how long and by whom? And how did they get the laboratory text and the arcane connection needed to create their own circle?''
''Fickle Servants''
''A flock of magical crows has been persuaded to make the tower their home in exchange for watching the skies for signs of danger. Each year, the crows appear at the ritual casting of the Aegis''
''of the Hearth to be welcomed anew into the covenant. But this year they haven’t arrived. Unable to delay the ritual, a search party is sent to find them and bring them with all due haste. The birds are gone, and all the grogs find is the last remaining crow, deep into her winter, her feathers sparse and her wings weak. She says that her grandsons and granddaughters have all flown away, tempted by a silver-tongued youth who flew on white wings, who offered them all the treasure they could want, if only they came to his tower. But the fickle crows, in their desire for riches, have been tricked. They have been captured by a wind wizard intent on selling them to a magus who maintains a grand menagerie of enchanted beasts. The crows are locked in cages, their powers suppressed, awaiting such fate as their new masters decide.''
''A Fish Out of Water?''
''One of the covenfolk takes a strange fish to her husband, who takes it to the steward, who takes it to the magi. The silver-scaled fish has a long tail, fins that spread like wings, and the appearance of legs at its hind quarters. In fact, it looks very much unlike a fish, but it was apparently found in one of the ponds fed by the great waterfall. But what’s more strange is that it appears not to be dead, but to be sleeping. What is the creature, how did it get into the pond, and just how do the magi wake it up?''
''Vim vis, after which the nail becomes a fixed arcane connection to the iron circle. Each wooden circle must then be opened with (2 x 5) 10 pawns of vis and the prepared nail hammered into it. The device is then ready to receive the following enchantment, which uses six pawns of the available space.''
''Convening the Council Cr(In)Im 59 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Arcane Connection, D: Sun, T: Circle Projects the image, affecting of all the senses, of everything in this circle into another circle to which it has an arcane connection. The Intellego requisite also shows the contents of the remote circle, linked through the arcane connection present in the device, including all magically created species. It operates over all five senses, so that the magus in his own circle can see, hear, touch, smell, and taste everything that is projected into the distant council chamber. Note, the species given off by the magus in the circle are not encumbered or inhibited by his Parma Magica and can therefore be sent from the local circle to the remote target. This is essentially an application of the common Haunt of the Living Ghost spell (ArM5, page 144) in device form. (Base 5, +4 Arcane Connection, +2 Sun, +2 for moving images, +1 intricacy, +1 Intellego requisite; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise and sunset) Required Lab Total: 1 season (118), 2 seasons (89), 3 seasons (79), 4 seasons (74) The Lab Total benefits from a +2 bonus to constant effects granted by the device’s shape, a ring, and a further +4 if the Traveling Laboratory is used to enchant the device in situ.''
''Gargoyles and Grotesques''
''Buildings of status across Mythic Europe are highly decorated, often with intricate stone carvings of allegorical scenes.''
''These carvings also include gargoyles, statues or spouts that pour rainwater away from the tower, and grotesques, strange twisted demonic forms designed to scare away evil spirits. In the Great Tower, these grotesques could act as watchmen, scanning the skies for danger and reporting it to their masters. Hermetic magi have many options when providing enchanted watchmen for their tower. These include finding and bargaining with magical creatures, or simply enslaving spirits and binding them into the forms of grotesques. Either of these overcomes the limitations of simple devices, chiefly their lack of thought and will. Particularly adept Verditius craftsmen may know the secrets of building automata and these, again, do not suffer the limitations of simple enchanted stone. Likewise, those who have rediscovered the ancient secrets of Heronic automata may build sentient devices, which can be put to work as guardians. The following effects can be enchanted into a single stone grotesque, carved independently of the Great Tower, and they allow the statue to act as watchman, alerting the tower inhabitants to approaching danger. Each grotesque holds a small sliver of bronze taken from a mirror kept within the tower. These large mirrors are normally kept together in a viewing chamber, arrayed such that the observer can scan the skies surrounding the tower from the center of the room. The enchanted grotesques must first be opened with 12 pawns of vis (base 4 for hard stone, x3 for medium size). The effects listed nearby use nine pawns of vis, leaving another three for further effects.''
''The Stone Watchman InIm 40 Pen: +42, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Vision This effect gives an enchanted device the power of sight. The grotesque is carved such that it has discernible eyes and this effect gives it a field of vision''
''similar to that possessed by a human. As this is magical vision, the effect does need to penetrate the Magic Resistance of anything within the item’s field of vision (ArM5, page 114). Entities that resist this effect are not “seen” and do not trigger any effects linked to this. Giving the effect a higher Penetration increases the effect’s overall level. (Base 1, +2 Sun, +4 Vision; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise and sunset, +21 Penetration of 42) Required Lab Total: 1 season (80), 2 seasons (60), 3 seasons (54), 4 seasons (50)''
''Projecting the Watchman’s Gaze CrIm 19 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Arcane Connection, D: Sun, T: Individual The images detected through the power of sight granted by the previous effect are projected onto the mirror associated with the bronze shard held by the grotesque. The mirror shows exactly what the grotesque “sees” at that moment and the image fills the mirror’s surface. There is no restriction on the size of the mirror, and the larger it is, the more detail it displays. Given the weakness of the stone watchman’s vision, potential threats with strong magical resistance will not be relayed to the mirror. But the nature of the magical vision means that a silhouette within the image will be apparent, allowing an astute observer to make assumptions about what happens to be there. (Base 1, +4 Arcane Connection, +2 Sun; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered by sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (38), 2 seasons (29), 3 seasons (26), 4 seasons (24) The lab total receives a bonus of +1 thanks to the prior Imaginem effect.''
''The Restless Watchman Re(Mu)Te 24 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual''
''Grotesques are designed to scare away evil spirits and often take the form of winged demonic beasts themselves. This enchantment increases the fearsome effect by giving the stone figure constant motion. The grotesque shifts on its perch, flexes its wings, peers around with its beady eyes, and snatches at imaginary insects with its stone claws. This has two side effects. The first is that it increases the grotesque’s field of vision, increasing the area of sky it observes. The second is that regardless of whether any evil spirits are fooled by the statue, mundane birds will rarely roost anywhere near the constantly moving stone beast. This effect could easily be enchanted into a separate stone grotesque as a Lesser Enchanted Item. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 Muto requisite, +1 affect stone, +1 precise control; +1 for 2/ day, +3 triggered by sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (48), 2 seasons (36), 3 seasons (32), 4 seasons (30)''
''Capture the Wind''
''ReAu 34 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group Enchanted into the arms of a windmill, this effect calms and channels the winds associated with even the strongest storms. This is essential for protecting the Great Tower from powerful winds that could cause the tower to shift and sway. The base fifth magnitude design controls severe weather phenomena, and the Group target allows it to control and channel 10 individual storm winds. These winds flow around the tower, causing no harm. But sustained storms, either natural or magical, can overwhelm these devices. And of course, these devices have no Penetration, so elemental winds are unaffected. If using the rules for damaging objects presented in City & Guild each of these devices provides a +1 modifier to stress checks caused by storms (page 77). (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''Required Lab Total: 1 season (68), 2 seasons (51), 3 seasons (46), 4 seasons (43) Defects introduced through experimentation may cause the device to fail in certain weather, such as rain or snow, or it may give the effect a Penetration score, which may allow it to capture a small spirit of the air that the magi might need to release.''
''The Waterfall''
''ReAq 59 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Arcane Connection, D: Sun, T: Part Deep underground, amid the foundations of the tower, several great cisterns collect and store the water that runs in from a nearby stream. This device, in the form of constantly turning waterwheel, magically draws water through a channel up into the tower and over the wheel, where it then cascades back down again. Water can be collected and channeled from both the ascending stream and the waterfall. The constant flow of water helps to freshen the environment, and chambers can be built within the tower to collect the water, allowing small ponds and streams to form. The wheel’s rotation can be stopped, which suspends the effect. This is done so that the wheel can be raised to a new higher position within the tower. This is likely to become an event of some significance, representing as it does not just the passing of time, but also the growth of the tower. (Base 10, +4 Arcane Connection, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +2 size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered by sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (118), 2 seasons (89), 3 seasons (79), 4 seasons (74) The wheel provides +2 bonus for a constant effect.''
''The Endless Well''
''ReAq 65 Pen: +0, 24/day R: Arcane Connection, D: Momentary, T: Individual''
''This enchanted bucket draws water from a remote well, by instantly transporting it into the bucket as it is tipped up. Given the height of the tower, it may not be feasible for covenfolk to fetch and carry water between levels, so these buckets replace the need for wells. Such a device may also be useful aboard a ship, where it can reduce the need to carry fresh water, or to those crossing the desert. This device is first prepared by having an arcane connection to a spring, well, or other body of water fixed into a bucket. A season is spent preparing the bucket in water collected from the well and a pawn of Vim vis. The magus must attend to the activity throughout the season, at the end of which the bucket has become a permanent connection to the well. It is then opened for enchantment with 10 pawns of vis (base 5 for iron, x2 for medium size) during a second season, and the effect can be enchanted from the third season. Although primarily of wood, the bucket is strengthened with iron straps. It is opened as a compound device, with the iron straps the most expensive part to open. A base effect level of 40 has been used for this device. The starting point for this is the base effect for “Control liquid in an extremely violent way,” as per ArM5, page 124, which is then modified based on the difficulty of transporting a Corpus target over a range of distances. Applying one magnitude for transport over five paces, two magnitudes for transport over 50 paces, etc. By following the progression under the Rego Corpus guidelines, we arrive at a base effect level of 40 allowing the effect to transport water to a location defined by an arcane connection. (Base 40, +4 Arcane Connection; +5 for 24/day) Required Lab Total: 1 season (130), 2 seasons (98), 3 seasons (87), 4 seasons (82) As a bucket, the device provides a +5 bonus to transporting water. Of course, there are alternatives to enchanted buckets or unnatural waterfalls.''
''Devices could be enchanted that transported water less frequently but in greater quantity, in order to refresh cisterns built at intervals as the tower rises.''
''Gardens and Orchards''
''CrHe 19 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room A number of large halls within the tower serve as gardens, fields, and orchards. This effect, enchanted using the Traveling Laboratory described earlier, ensures that the plants grow well throughout the year. The plants still need soil, sunlight, and rain, and this spell has little effect if the plants do not have at least these essentials. But gargoyles can collect rain as it falls and route it to these indoor gardens, and simple magic or large open arcades can provide all the sunlight that the growing plants need. As the gardens and orchards are sub''
''ject to constant magical effects, warping will accumulate at the rate of one Warping Point per year. This means that trees and other plants that remain within the orchards will eventually show signs of warping. This may manifest either as flawed crops, reduced yield, or even a slowlygrowing sentience. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room, +1 size; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Required Lab Total: 1 season (38), 2 seasons (29), 3 seasons (26), 4 seasons (24) The Traveling Laboratory provides +4 to the lab total.''

==The Outside World==

''These effects allow the inhabitants of the Great Tower some connection with the outside world, a place that, as the years advance, becomes ever more distant.''
''Window on the World''
''Throughout the Great Tower, there are large circular windows framed with a ring of stone. Some are glazed while others are open to the elements. These windows normally look out over the sky, offering light to the tower but no connection with the world beyond. But the stone ring is enchanted with two key effects. One effect affords a complete view over a distant place, and another displays that view within the ring. The Arcane Connection used by the first effect is placed in a small recess next to the window. The effect then shows the scene around the target, maintaining it constantly for as long as the Arcane Connection is active. A third effect allows the device’s user to manipulate remote elements revealed to him by the window. It takes a lot of vis to enchant these devices. The ring is stone (base 4 pawns) and of a large size, for a multiplier of x5 and a total of 20 pawns of vis to prepare for enchantment. Given this investment, a number of effects are included to make these devices more efficient. The Traveling Laboratory can be used to enchant these windows in situ and this provides +4 to all lab totals.''
''Summoning the Distant Senses InIm 54 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Arcane Connection, D: Sun, T: Special This effect uses all senses at Arcane Connection range, whether that connection is to a person or a place. All of these senses are gathered from the target area of approximately the same size as the room in which the device is housed. This is accommodated by the Special target, based on Room +1 magnitude. The effect has no particular point of view or field of vision, and species for all senses are gathered equally. If the target is mobile, then the effect follows the target and the scope of the collected images change as the target moves.''
''The information gathered is directly accessible to the device’s user, but the additional effect described next ensures that all present in the room can also see the remote images. (Base 5, +4 Arcane Connection, +2 Sun, +3 Special based on Room + 1 magnitude; +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise and sunset) Required Lab Total: 1 season (108), 2 seasons (81), 3 seasons (72), 4 seasons (68) Experimenting on this effect could reduce the senses that are collected, could distort the images, or the effect could become tied to a single Arcane Connection, unable to change. As this effect is enchanted into a ring, the Lab Total has a bonus of +2, and a further +4 if the Traveling Laboratory is used.''
''Sight of Distant Places CrIm 44 Pen: +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This effect displays the images gained by the initial Intellego Imaginem effect. The illusion fills the room connected to the window. All of the information gathered by the first effect is reproduced and the user is able to move through the image by walking and turning within the room. The purpose of this effect is to display the Imaginem information gathered by the first effect. Without this second effect, the images (and sounds, tastes, smells, sensations) are accessible only to the device user, identified as the person who triggered the device by inserting the arcane connection into the receptacle. A variant device could be created that omitted this effect, which would limit the experience to a single user at a time. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room, +2 moving and complex images; +1 for 2/ day, +3 triggered at sunrise and sunset) Required Lab Total: 1 season (88), 2 seasons (66), 3 seasons (59), 4 seasons (55) As with the first effect, experimentation may result in distorted or deceitful images.''
''The Lab Total benefits from the +2 ring bonus and +1 for the prior Imaginem effect, and a further +4 if the Traveling Laboratory is used.''
''The Wizard’s Touch ReTe (AnAqCoIgHe) 55 Pen: +0, Unlimited Use R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Special Through this effect, the magus may manipulate any chosen item within the room or space to which the device has an active arcane connection. In fact, it is more proper to say that the magus may manipulate the room and its contents, but the illusory view of the place allows the magus a degree of control fine enough to identify and affect individual items. The prior effects enchanted into this device give him the sensory information he needs to be able to lift, turn, inspect, and move objects of size, up to the standard individual of its type. Typically this effect is activated by the magus physically interacting with the illusion of the objects cast around him in his own room. But there are limits to what the magus can do. As the spell has no Perdo requisite, the magus cannot destroy items (for instance, by crushing the illusions in his hands), but he could lift the item into the air and drop it, or throw it against a wall, perhaps causing it to smash. The effect design has a base Rego Terram level of 3 to control or move dirt in a very unnatural fashion, which allows for fine manual control by the device’s user. It also has two additional magnitudes allowing stone, glass, metal, and gemstones to be affected. The requisites listed are free, and simply allow the device to affect nonliving objects made of materials covered by those requisites. Note an Arcane Connection range, not Sight, is required in order to allow the user to manipulate these remote objects. As discussed in Magi of Hermes, the species displayed by the device are not sufficient to form a sight-based link between the magus and his target (page 101).''
''(Base 3, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration, +3 Special based on Room +1, +2 affect metal and gemstones; +10 Unlimited Use) Required Lab Total: 1 season (110), 2 seasons (83), 3 seasons (74), 4 seasons (69) The high level of this device effect may have magi seeking for assistance, preparing to invest more time, experimenting, or reducing the scope of the effect. Experimentation may introduce a Perdo distortion to the effect such that anything “touched” by the magus is somehow diminished. Or the effect may be limited in what it can pick up, perhaps by form, size, or weight. But given the investment in both time and vis, the risks inherent in experimentation may not be attractive. The most productive option is for the covenant to view this device as an investment and cooperate on the project, producing a Laboratory Text that can be used to create similar devices in the future. Other than this, the standard +4 rooms bonus is gained if the Traveling Laboratory is used, and a further +1 for any experimentation during the creation of this effect.''

==Story Magnitudes==

''With the Great Tower in place as the backdrop for the saga, it is useful to look at the magnitude of stories and decide how frequently stories of a given scale are likely to occur. Minor events are those notable occurrences that draw magi from their studies, or push companions and grogs beyond their day-to-day duties. They may represent stand-alone episodes in the life of the magus or his covenant, or they may be chapters in a much larger story. In any case, these kinds of stories are likely to occur maybe once a year throughout the life of the tower.''
''A Significant event, occurring once per decade, sees some change, crisis, or prolonged hardship that the tower and its inhabitants must face. At the resolution of such a story, life may return to normal inside the tower with the status quo largely retained. There are some stories that leave a lasting effect on the tower and its inhabitants. These Life-Changing events happen once in a generation, and have consequences and repercussions that irrevocably change life within the tower. The last types of story are those that mark out the life of the tower itself. These Cataclysmic events are experienced only once in a lifetime, and have the potential for repercussions far beyond the tower alone. The founding of the Great Tower is the first such event, and its ultimate fate, for good or for bad, is perhaps the last. The sections that follow present story ideas that can be threaded through a saga to chart the lives of covenfolk, magi, covenants, and ultimately the Great Tower itself.''

==Minor Stories: Once Per Year==

''The story ideas that follow represent the kind of events that are likely to happen each year. You do not have to play these stories each game year, but they certainly represent the most common type of story related to the Great Tower that the troupe may experience.''
''Hermetic Visitors''
''There are likely to be three kinds of Hermetic visitor to the Great Tower: those who come to study within it, those who come to study the Great Tower itself, and those who come to condemn the Tower and those in possession of it. Magi coming to the tower to study may be doing so because of a Study Requirement (as per the Flaw) or to gain a''

==Minor Story Seeds==

''The Weary Scholar''
''An elderly magus, warped from years of magic and Twilight, from a faroff Tribunal arrives at the Great Tower, keen to study at the highest point in the tower. He offers great wealth in return for being accommodated. But over dinner, he is evasive about his origins, his covenant, and even his House. In truth, he is an accursed magus from the early days of the Order, given a Death Prophecy by a creature of infernal or faerie origin, and warped beyond the capability to use his magic. He has traveled the world, across Mythic Europe and beyond, to find the place where he may “walk among the clouds.” Only there, he eventually explains, will he finally die. This tower is his final hope. Do the magi of the Great Tower help him to reach the highest reaches? Do they try to learn from his obvious knowledge before doing so? And what happens if he doesn’t die? Do they turn over part of the Tower to him and just... wait?''
''War Comes to the Tower''
''A foreign magus seeks to exchange vis for a season spent studying or copying from the Great Tower’s library. He’s willing to pay a handsome price. But within days, several other magi arrive in pursuit of the visitor. A state of Wizard War exists between them, and these pursuers demand he be turned over to them. If they refuse, it is made clear to the magi of the tower that they will soon be subject to Wizard War themselves.''
''The Disappearing Tower''
''A magical accident starts a cascade of temporary regiones forming, each swallowing a single room. The magi of the Great Tower are alerted when the kitchens on one level are reported missing along with the kitchen staff. Upon investigating, they find several other rooms and walkways also have disap''
''peared, in one case causing part of the upper level to collapse, a demonstration of what could happen if the effect is not stopped. Can the magi reach the center of the phenomenon and reverse it before the whole level disappears and topples the entire tower?''
''The Stone Masons''
''One by one, the masons working on the tower seem to be going missing. No amount of Intellego Corpus magic is able to find them. The workers are growing restless and are refusing to work any further until their colleagues are found, which is a shame, as the new gargoyles are testament to their skill. But then, nobody can actually remember crafting any new gargoyles. And come to that, nobody has seen the visiting Terram specialist for over a week. He was using a spare laboratory in the upper levels when last heard from, but now even the doorway into that laboratory can’t be found. There is clearly a magical effect running wild in the tower, and the magi must rescue both the visiting magus and the transformed masons.''
''The Feast of Stephen''
''Every year, the masons and their laborers celebrate the Feast of Stephen, patron saint of Masons, on the 26th day of December. Most years, this takes the form of two noisy teams and their appointed champions going from house to house, or chamber to chamber within the tower, collecting items of food and drink with which to make an enormous feast. The feast is prepared for the opposing champion, and the intent is to make a meal so foul that the champion cannot finish it. But this year, the magi notice that, apparently by accident, the teams seem to be brewing a potion filled with mystical symbolism. Is this an accident or is there some other force at work. And can the magi discover both cause and effect before the potion works its magic on the two champions?''
''Study Bonus (as per the Virtue). The sheer magnitude of the Great Tower gives it a potent connection with both Terram and Auram. Others may want access to the laboratory texts of the wondrous effects found within the Great Tower, and may come with other items, vis, books on the arts, or laboratory texts to trade. But each magus who arrives at the covenant may also bring stories with him. There are many reasons that magi may condemn the construction of the Great Tower. Some may see it as an affront to the Divine order of the world. Others may see such a project as an overt threat to the mundane authority that the Order is careful to respect. For others still, their motives are filled with jealousy or mischief. Magi with these kinds of motives rarely operate alone and seek to gain political backing for their actions, and this can draw the magi of the Great Tower into conflict with the Tribunal. Others may simply arrive at the Great Tower, seeking magi of great vision with whom to share their own adventures and tales. Hermetic explorers in flying ships, or perhaps magi determined to seek the center of the Earth, might look for support and inspiration from the magi responsible for such a vast project.''
''Accidents''
''In any given year, with magi working towards their own projects and to progress the Great Tower, magical accidents are a risk, if not caused by the native magi, then possibly their visitors. Such accidents may be contained or channeled by the Great Tower, rooms or entire levels may become lost within regiones, or the laborers continually building at their masters’ behest may themselves become statues. But accidents don’t just happen around magic. With so many craftsmen working on the tower, it is only a matter of time before life or limb is lost. The stories here focus on the circumstances of accidents, likely uncovering a nefarious cause.''
''Mundane Stories''
''Being in a magical tower does not prevent mundane stories from visiting the magi. Nobles may appeal to these legendary masons for help in building their own castles, entire villages may seek sanctuary from a ruthless lord, or that ruthless lord may attempt to take the tower by force of arms. Closer to home, the covenfolk and the craftsmen may have their own festivals that embroil the magi in stories.''

==Significant Stories: Once Per Decade==

''More significant stories are those unusual events that help mark time in the Great Tower.''
''Beasts''
''The building of this great artificial mountain may attract beasts traditionally found in the deep and dark places. While less powerful faeries, spirits, and demons may be attracted by the toils of the magi and covenfolk, these stories concern older and more powerful entities. These might include a dragon returning home after centuries away and finding the tower built above her lair, or a pride of griffons trying to nest in the highest reaches, or a faerie king who builds his court around this mightiest of castles. While the Aegis of the Hearth will keep the less powerful beasts at bay, they may''
''still be drawn to the tower and their presence becomes a menace to those who live in the tower’s shadow.''
''Crisis in the Region''
''Though the Great Tower seeks to be self-contained, it can never truly deny the outside world, and the troubles of that world are reflected in the tower. War, drought, famine, flood, and earthquake all send envoys to the tower looking for alliance and help. And where the troubles continue, refugees flock to the tower seeking shelter and sanctuary.''
''The Warping of the Tower''
''The powerful magic used to build and sustain the tower may also start to warp it, changing the aura in places, giving it personality. This may create places within the tower that earn their own stories. Does this warping extend to those who live in the tower? Does it warp to a pattern or is it seemingly random? Is it possible for a magus to take advantage of the warping? Perhaps it is even worth creating a laboratory within these areas. And are there side effects not yet apparent?''

==Life-Changing Stories: Once Per Generation==

''Some events bring a lasting change to the Great Tower, or threaten the status quo.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Significant Story Seed: Where Angels Fear to Tread==

''The children of the tower have heard stories of a distant and forgotten cellar, deep in the foundations. It is said that no one can spend a night in the cellar without losing their life or their''
''mind. So of course, several of them decide to prove the stories wrong. But the warped aura preys upon their fears, turning them inwards. Are they strong enough to last the night?''

|}
''Hermetic Influence''
''The tower may become a center of Hermetic power, and as such, conflict may arise within the tower as magi vie for dominance. But conflict with Hermetic magi outside the tower is also possible as the Tribunal or individual Houses attempt to claim the tower, taking it away from those who founded and built it. But not all Hermetic influence is destructive. The tower’s spectacle and symbolism may attract great councils of magi, including the hosting of the Verdi contest, the meeting of the Tribunal, or even the gathering of the Grand Tribunal, held outside of Durenmar for the first time in its history.''
''The Tower Looking Inwards''
''With an army of craftsmen dedicated to the Great Tower, and a community of''
''covenfolk dedicated to their magi, there is potential for conflict as both sides perceive the other as being favored and being granted undue benefit. One further aspect is the division of the magi. The Great Tower becomes so vast that the magical aura is unlikely to remain constant throughout the structure. Indeed, even where the strength remains constant, the aura may acquire different traits in different parts of the tower, enough to draw the magi apart. Eventually the saga might see them living their own lives with their own separate turbs and covenfolk — a single covenant in name only. And as the tower grows ever larger, parts of the tower, especially the lower levels, begin to fall into disuse and disrepair. Accidents happen, even those with no supernatural cause, and endanger life and limb.''

==Cataclysmic Events: Once In A Lifetime==

''The greatest and most profound events happen perhaps once in a lifetime. From the Hermetic perspective, the founding of a new covenant within the tower is something that changes the dynamic, perhaps forever. Suddenly, with the aura growing, the tower more sparsely inhabited, and magical power growing, a new wave of young magi looks to the tower. Perhaps they are the apprentices of the original magi, keen to govern themselves. Or perhaps they are magi with nowhere else to go, looking to the Great Tower for refuge. Such events may either be the result of, or precipitate, Wizard’s War within the tower. The conflicts of magi rarely escalate to violence, but the confines of the tower increase the dangers, as the magi put aside concerns for the structure and its people and seek to destroy each other. And the vendettas carried out by magi of Verditius, though not deadly to the participating magi, pose the same dangers to innocent bystanders as a full-blown Wizard’s War.''
''Angelic Influence''
''As the tower grows closer to the heavens, encounters with angels become more common and their secrets may start to be revealed. Members of the covenant — magi, companions, or simple grogs — may now throw off their earthly guise and show themselves to have been angels all along, watching from within. Or characters may see increasing opportunities to atone for past sins, as though the world is conspiring to have them confess themselves and be absolved. But the magi of the tower may discover that the conflict between angels and demons still rages, unseen to those many thousands of feet below. The magi are faced with protecting their tower and their covenfolk from powers they now realize they do not understand.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Faerie Story Seed: Out of the Shadows==

''An apprentice, of the Order or masonic, faces the decision whether to stay within the Great Tower or leave to find his way in the world. Drawn to this moment, a faerie shows the apprentice the possible roads ahead. The apprentice sees the future of Great Tower without him, and his own life to come both inside and outside the walls.''

|}
''The End of the Tower''
''The last and greatest story of the tower is its ultimate fate. Each troupe must make their own way when introducing the Great Tower into their saga, but the two archetypal fates are the final breach of Heaven by the tower, or its toppling. What happens when the Great Tower breaks through the earthly sphere, what the magi experience, and what there is to greet or challenge them, is for each troupe to determine. But such events almost certainly mean the end of the project, and the magi, craftsmen, and the covenfolk must find ways to come to terms with that. But there is a precedent for what happens when mankind tries to build a tower to reach Heaven. The tower at Babel was toppled, its people scattered across the land, and the common language sundered. Babel was founded out of the unity of mankind, and as a result, mankind was fractured. The Great Tower was founded by the ambitions of the Order of Hermes, so will the toppling of the tower also resonate through the Order? Will Divine judgment fracture the Hermetic Arts, scattering the magic of the Order across the land? The magi of the tower must face this possibility. And their choices and their actions, at this point, will decide the fate of the Order.''

==Moral Temptation and Fortitude==

''Many of the ideas in the preceding sections concern events that surround characters and draw them into stories, so that some threat or conflict can be resolved. But the magi of the tower, by virtue of pursuing such a daring and bold project, must face events intimately tied to their own choices. The moral powers of both the Divine and Infernal may bring the magi to account, forcing them to defend their actions and their motives. These stories may become more important as the Great Tow''
''er ascends into the sky, getting closer to the heavens. While it is for each troupe to decide whether the tower can ever breach the lunar sphere, the risk of it is present and can be preyed upon by angel and demon alike. The Great Tower may have an Aegis of sufficient strength and penetration to protect against moderate entities. In that case, the angels and demons that come to the tower will either be powerful examples or will work through proxies and agents.  Common tactics may be to manifest in or threaten other places essential to the magi. And if it suits the story, angels are themselves agents of the Divine and their path is always unimpeded should God wish it.''

==Faerie Stories==

''The magi of the Great Tower face a number of defining moments through the construction and life of the tower; from the inception of the project, to the first moral sacrifice to preserve it; from the end of the master mason’s life when he looks back over his achievement, to the moment the apprentice chooses to leave the only life he’s ever know. All of these moments can be interrupted, magnified, and reshaped to feed faeries the vitality they crave.''

==A Far-off Tower==

''The Great Tower can also be used as a backdrop for stories, even when your covenant or troupe is not the driving force behind it. The magi of the tower may reach out to new blood to join the effort or to take up residency in the tower. Or the tower could slowly become a threat, turned from its once-noble ambition, and now scouring the land for vis and resources. The presence and growth of the tower could cause concern at both local and Grand Tribunals, and the troupe’s magi may be called upon to examine the case or act as impartial ambassadors to the Great Tower.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds of Moral Temptation==

''The Judgment of Angels''
''The Great Tower is suddenly turned into an angelic court, with the magi on trial with their lives and their lives’ work potentially forfeit. The angels recount the sins of each magus, contesting that the Great Tower is a malign and evil influence, and should be struck down. The angels take them to places within the tower where sins have been committed or plotted, and the magi must face up to these sins and justify their actions to their accusers. To be found guilty could mean the end of everything.''
''The Temptation of Devils''
''A mysterious book is unearthed in the library claiming to reveal the secret knowledge of the masons. It seems genuine, as the master mason working on the Great Tower is keen to take ownership of it. But the book makes mention of rituals and dedications intrinsic to the craft that suggest a darkness within the mason’s art. Studying the book corrupts the reader’s knowledge, and suddenly the Great Tower is at risk from within.''

|}
''More worryingly, could there be an Order of wizards unknown to the Order of Hermes who are working on a tower to breach the heavens? Perhaps they believe''
''it will grant them Divine power. Perhaps it is not just one Order but many, intent on rebuilding the tower in the hope that their disparate magics will be unified in''
''some way and that they will finally rival the Order of Hermes. The tower could also provide opportunity for exploration. A failed project without the ongoing protection of an Aegis of the Hearth could soon be overrun by supernatural beings. Such a place may attract legend and exaggeration enough to tempt magi from their laboratories. The Order itself may assemble a team of Hoplites and explorers under the leadership of the troupe’s magi, so as to reclaim the tower for the Order.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Far-off Tower Story Seed: Spire on the Horizon==

''A secretly built tower suddenly looms over the horizon far to the west. The magi are appointed by the Grand Tribunal to make contact with those responsible, find out their intentions,''
''and ensure that peaceful relations can be established. Or failing that, find the tower’s weaknesses and report back to the waiting Tremere council at Coeris.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
