
[|
''We.are.the.Order’s.forsaken.army;.they.have.used. us.to.defeat.their.foe,.and.now.they.wish.us.to.depart. back. to. the. hedges. and. the. crags. from. which. we. came..It.shall.not.be.so!.We.might.be.hedge.wizards. and. crag. witches,. but. we. have. proven. our. power. ‘gainst.a.foe.the.Order.itself.feared.to.face..If.they. must.be.forced.to.recognize.us.as.equals,.then.we.must. be.the.crooked.staff.which.applied.that.force!.''
''—.Pralix fi lia Tytalus, 816 AD''
''House Ex Miscellanea is the largest of the Order’s 12 Houses, and yet it has the least prestige and recognition among other magi. This is because, unlike other Houses, there is no unifying concept that unites the House, no common descent, single cultic belief, nor shared philosophy. Instead, this House is composed of numerous Lineages, Mystery Cults, and Societates, each one with its own history, culture, and magic. This chapter is divided into two parts: the fi rst part provides the reader with some facts about the House as a whole, and the second part is devoted to the description of nine traditions of House Ex Miscellanea.''

==History==

''The story of the formation of the House was a major event in the history of the Order of Hermes, and is well known (ArM5, page 10). Briefl y, Pralix the pupil of Tytalus was charged with hunting down a non-Hermetic warlock called DamhanAllaidh (pronounced DAH-van-AHL-ee; often Latinized to Davanallus) who had recruited an army of Anglo-Saxon runewizards and monstrous shapechangers and posed a threat to the Order in the early ninth century. To assist her with this task,''
''Pralix needed an army of her own, and so she recruited native magicians from all over the British Isles who had also suffered under this warlock. At the head of this army, she faced her foe fi rst at Loch Leglean in Scotland, then all through northern England, until they met fi nally at Cad Gadu in Wales. There, during the Battle of the False Sun, Damhan-Allaidh and his fearsome allies were fi nally defeated.''
''When Pralix declined to return to home in triumph, Mercere visited her in person at Cad Gadu, but was refused entrance. Pralix had renounced both her House and the Order, and was now the leader of a new Order, the Ordo Miscellanea. It offered protection to all magicians who had been rejected or persecuted by the Order of Hermes because their powers were too paltry, or did not bear the legacy of mighty Rome. The outraged Order of Hermes called for the immediate extirpation of both Pralix and her upstart order, but Hariste (Tytalus’s successor) and Trianoma both argued for a settlement. While the Order of Hermes was paralyzed with indecision, the Ordo Miscellanea recruited aggressively throughout northern and western Europe. Eventually, in 817, the cooler heads prevailed, and the Ordo Miscellanea joined the Order of Hermes as a 13th house, House Ex Miscellanea. This move doubled the size of the Order at that time.''
''Under Pralix, the House was ruled by a Council of Four, representing different facets of the House’s interests. It was initially a martial House populated by battle-hardened wizards, and ruthlessly pursued the “join or die” imperative of the Order, making enemies of both Tremere and Flambeau, who felt that their own House identities were being threatened,''

=House Ex Miscellanea=


==Key Facts==

''PoPulation:. Estimated at 180, although a census is currently underway which may revise this number. Primus:.Ebroin domus. magna:. Cad Gadu, in North Wales (Stonehenge Tribunal). The covenant lies on an island in a lake, at the top level of magical regio where the aura is of strength 8. The whole island is frequently shrouded in mist, and people have been known to be lost forever in these mists if they stray from the marked path. Cad Gadu was originally the home of a tradition of hedge wizards called the Columbae, but its current name comes from the fi nal battle between Pralix and DamhanAllaidh, and means “the forsaken army” in honor of all the magi who perished in this war. Favored. tribunals:. Magi Ex Miscellanea are found equally in all Tribunals. motto:. Totus. multitudinem. componet (“the whole is composed of many parts”) symbol:.A crooked staff parts”)''
''symbol:.A crooked staff''

|]
''by numbers if not power. Pralix disappeared in 863 while returning from a visit to her former domus magna, and many suspected members of Houses Flambeau and/or Tremere of foul play. Without her firm guidance, House Ex Miscellanea gradually lost its former coherence as each tradition of magi pursued their own agenda without any thought towards the House as a whole.''
''Immediately before the Schism War, a new Primus named Basilicus seized control of the House. By this time, the House had become bloated with many traditions seeking the protection of the Order, and had sacrificed its martial focus for diversity. Basilicus re-instituted the Council of Four, and whipped the House back into a shadow of its former self. He had been warned by his own prophetic abilities of the coming strife, and was determined that House Ex Miscellanea would not suffer because of it. In fact, many of the founding traditions of the House harbored a great deal of resentment for House Diedne due to antipathies which reached back to before''
''the Founding of the Order; in Britain, at least, many Diedne magi died at the hands of the magi Ex Miscellanea. However, once again, upon the passing of Basilicus the House entered a decline again, from which it is yet to raise itself.''

==Culture==

''House Ex Miscellanea, despite its predominantly British roots, now encompasses magi from all over Europe. Before its formation, hedge wizards were recruited either into the Mystery Houses (if their ideology was appropriate) or the Societates (often House Flambeau). House Diedne was a common recipient of hedge wizards, and since the demise of that House during the Schism War, House Ex Miscellanea has inherited its stereotype of having naturalistic, primitive wizards with little classical education and poorly developed Hermetic magic. This stereo''
''type is not wholly justified, for many of the traditions of House Ex Miscellanea have roots that are every bit as noble and sophisticated as those of the Founders themselves. However, the stereotype is not wholly wrong either, for there are a large number of magi Ex Miscellanea who are uninterested in the Order as a political body — their membership is purely to prevent harassment from the other Houses, so that they may pursue their own goals in peace.''
''There is hardly any “House culture” at all. Magi of this House congregate only sporadically, and even then the gatherings are usually meetings between members of the same tradition. Most magi Ex Miscellanea prefer to act independently from the others, and the House as a whole has no common philosophy. The downside is that this also means there is no unity; for example, a member can rarely rely upon his House to support him at Tribunal unless he has put the effort in himself to recruit allies.''

===Governance of House Ex Miscellanea===

''In 1220, for nearly  the first time, the House seems to have a chance at rejuvenation. For the last eight decades, the Prima of House Ex Miscellanea was Immanola, from a tradition of seers. In her youth she was a firebrand who excited the Stonehenge Tribunal with her dire prophecies, none of which appeared to come true. As age caught up with her and senility set in, she was respected less and less. She has now sat unmoving for twelve years, gazing into a pool at Cad Gadu. Four years ago she was declared to have entered Final Twilight, and the House elected Ebroin to be Primus. Ebroin is a young and vibrant magus who has attempted a number of reforms. He has re-instated the Council of Four, placing nominal control of three Tribunals under each of the Council members, leaving himself in charge of the magi Ex Miscellanea of the Stonehenge Tribunal. He has called for a census of the House, and seems to have plans for the revitalization of the House. Only time will tell whether his plans will bear any fruit, or whether he will fail like others before him.''

[|

==Rumors and Stories==

''Damhan-Allaidh may not have died at the hands of Pralix, but perhaps feigned his death and escaped. Sightings of the warlock abounded in Scotland (and further afield) in the ninth and tenth centuries, but none have been reported since the Schism War. The suspicion remains that Damhan-Allaidh or his descendents still plot the downfall of the Order, starting with House Ex Miscellanea. Pralix is still technically the leader of Cad Gadu; a seat is left for her at the Council, and her opinion is requested on any motion. Is there any connection between her disappearance and that of Prima Hariste of House Tytalus, which occurred just a few months later? Is there any truth to the conspiracy rumors that other Houses deliberately limit the resources of House Ex Miscellanea? The House could be a force to be reckoned with, were it not so disparate.''
''•''
''•''
''•''

==The Name “Ex Miscellanea”==

''Miscellanea, in ancient Rome, was the name given to the food provided to gladiators to keep them strong: a porridge made of blood, offal, and oats. The name was well chosen by Pralix, because she intended the Ordo Miscellanea to strengthen the Order of Hermes through opposition. However, with her characteristic wry humor, when they joined the Order she named them House Ex Miscellanea, with a meaning more like “from out of the rag-tag mixture,” indicating the diverse nature of the House. A member of this House is correctly referred to as a magus Ex Miscellanea, not a magus of House Ex Miscellanea, or any variant thereof. Of course, these magi are more likely to refer to themselves by their traditions rather than their House.''

|]

==Societates Magic==

''Most of the traditions of House Ex Miscellanea have preserved some aspect of their pre-Hermetic powers that they consider superior to those of the Order. While the magic practiced by the Order of Hermes is superior to all other magical traditions (past and present), even its most ardent supporters admit that in some cases, potency has been sacrificed for flexibility. In addition to the Limits of Magic, there are some areas of magic that some wizards found exceptionally easy, but are quite difficult under Hermetic theory.''
''All members of this House have their particular tradition represented by a Major non-Hermetic Virtue, a Major Hermetic Flaw, and a Minor Hermetic Virtue (ArM5, page 30). These Virtues and Flaws are compulsory, are in addition to the normal allocation of Virtues and Flaws of a magus character, and are shared by all members of the same lineage.''
''The Major Virtue represents the legacy of the magus’s tradition before joining the Order, and a discussion on the type of powers available is given below.  In contrast, the Major Flaw represents the sacrifices of his Hermetic magic that have had to be made to retain his non-Hermetic magic. Typically, these Flaws consist of an inability to use a particular aspect of Hermetic magic (Deficient Technique, Difficult Longevity Ritual, Waster of Vis, Weak Spontaneous Magic, or Unstructured Caster), a limitation imposed on that magic (Necessary Condition, ShortRanged Magic, Restriction, or Weak Magic Resistance), or an unusual response to the use of Hermetic Magic (Chaotic Magic, Magic Addition, Painful Magic, or Twilight Prone).''
''The Minor Virtue represents a successful re-focusing of non-Hermetic powers into Hermetic channels when the tradition first joined the Order. This Virtue should affect how the magus’s magic operates, such as Affinity with Art, Cyclical Magic, Enduring Magic, Life Boost, Minor Magical Focus, Puissant Art, Side Effect, and Special Circumstances.''
''Note that Hermetic Virtues and Flaws, including the ones gained by being a member of House Ex Miscellanea, affect only''
''the exercise of Hermetic magic, not nonHermetic powers.''

==Supernatural Abilities==

''This section provides guidance on how a troupe can design a new Major Supernatural Virtue to be the mainstay of the magic of a tradition in House''
''Ex Miscellanea. These rules may also be used by the storyguide to create Major Supernatural Virtues for non-player antagonists (or allies) for her saga.''

===The Basics===

''All Supernatural Virtues created with this system are associated with a Supernatural Ability, which represents how''

[|
''When a Primus Ex Miscellanea dies or enters Final Twilight, all the members of Cad Gadu become eligible candidates to the position. The magi Ex Miscellanea of each Tribunal must then reach a consensus of which of the candidates they support. The candidate with the most votes from the thirteen Tribunals is appointed as the new Primus, and given the Robes of Dusty Dawn (see below) as a symbol of his position. The first act of the new Primus is to dismiss the members of the Covenant of Cad Gadu, and redistribute their positions to any magi of the House whom he feels are worthy. He is also responsible for choosing replacements for magi of the covenant when they pass on.''
''This system is clearly open to corruption. Under an aging Primus, the''
''membership of Cad Gadu (and thus the candidature for their successor) is easy to fix. Furthermore, it is not unknown for the votes of the Tribunals to be incorrectly performed or reported to Cad Gadu. However, few magi Ex Miscellanea care enough about the governance of their House to make an issue of procedural irregularities.''
''The Robes of Dusty Dawn were given to Pralix by the Columbae (see later) when she assumed leadership of the British wizards against Damhan-Allaidh. The robes are much too big to fit Primus Ebroin comfortably, and he finds them stifling. Therefore, despite the substantial magical protection they offer, they are most commonly found slung over a chair or in a crumbled heap upon the floor, discarded by the Primus.''

==The Primus Ex Miscellanea==

''Primus Ebroin has big plans for his House, but there are a number of stumbling blocks in his way. Firstly, the Council of Four that he has instituted has not been wisely chosen. None of the four magi have any respect for each other, or for the Primus, although they pretend otherwise. Each has his own agenda, and all of them are mutually incompatible. The Primus is both young and inexperienced, and clearly a poor judge of character. Those who meet him frequently decide he is a bumbling fool, but they would be wrong. Ebroin is an orbus (see below), although he prefers it that this is not widely known.''
''Furthermore, the circumstances of his expulsion from his House are not altogether clear, and there is a hint of a suggestion that he may still be loyal to his former Primus. In addition to Gwhyr of the Columbae (see Columbae, The Fate of Cad Gadu, below), the Council of Four also includes a Donator and a member of the Damhadh-Duidsan.''
''The machinations of the leadership of House Ex Miscellanea would make an interesting backdrop for a saga. It would work best in either the Stonehenge Tribunal or one of its neighbors. It is left to the storyguide to decide upon Ebroin’s former House and his future plans.''

==Saga Seed: The Boy King==


|]
''much command the character has over his magic. It is assumed that for magi Ex Miscellanea, this Ability is affiliated with the Magic realm, although in fact it can be associated with any of the four supernatural realms, creating a character with multiple affiliations (since The Gift itself is always aligned to the Magic realm).''
''To use the Ability in a specific instance,  the player must first determine what his character is trying to achieve with his magic. The storyguide then assigns an Ease Factor to that task, and the player makes a die roll and adds a Characteristic and his score in the Supernatural Ability. The Characteristic used varies according to the Ability used. This is the equivalent to the Casting Total of a Hermetic spell. If the Ease Factor is achieved, then the magical effect is successful. There is no fatigue loss in using a Supernatural Ability, unless the specific Ability requires it. The calculation of the Penetration Total, if required, is equal to the Casting Total minus the Ease Factor, plus the Penetration Bonus, calculated as for Hermetic magic (ArM5, page 84); hedge magic still benefits from the Penetration Ability. If the level of the magical effect is required, for example, if it is struck by Wind of Mundane Silence,''
''then substitute the character’s Supernatural Ability multiplied by five.''
''If concentration rolls are required, use the rules for Hermetic magic (ArM5, page 82). Raw vis can be used to boost the Casting Total: the Art of the vis must be appropriate to the Supernatural Ability, and the character cannot use more pawns than his score in the Supernatural Ability. Each pawn used adds one to the casting total, and an extra botch die.''

===Casting Total: Characteristic + Ability===


===+ Aura Modifier + Die Roll===


===Ease Factor: Determined By Effect===


===Attempted===


===Penetration Total: Casting Total +===


===Penetration Bonus – Ease Factor===


===Equivalent Spell Level: 5 X Ability===


===Limit On Vis Use in Spellcasting:===


===Ability Score===


===Vis Boost To Casting Score: +1 Per===


===Pawn===


===Designing a Supernatural Ability===

''All Supernatural Abilities designed by these rules are Major Supernatural Virtues. Each one covers the range of magical ability usually encapsulated in a Minor Magical Focus (see ArM5, page 46 for a list). Supernatural Abilities do not (and should not necessarily) follow the exact outlines  of Hermetic effects, but this is a good place to start.''
''The effects of all Supernatural Abilities can be described by the same four parameters as a Hermetic spell — Range, Duration, Target, and base effect guideline. Example 1: The Shapeshifter Ability (ArM5, page 67) is always Range Personal, Duration Momentary, Target Individual, and uses the Muto Corpus guideline for changing into an animal. Example 2: The Entrancement Ability (ArM5, page 65) is always Range Eye, Duration Special (one command), Target Individual, and uses the Rego Mentem guidelines for controlling a human’s emotions and thoughts.''
''All Supernatural Abilities fix three of these parameters as unchangeable, and allow one to vary according to either the score in the Ability or the Ease Factor achieved by the Casting Total. Example 1 (continued): The Shapeshifter Ability grants one potential animal form (the base effect guideline) for every point in the Ability score. Example 2 (continued): The Entrancement Ability allows different levels of control (the base effect guideline) depending on the Casting Total achieved.''
''When assigning the parameters of an effect to an Ability score or Ease Factor, care should be taken to ensure that the Ability does not become too powerful. If the breadth of the Ability is important, but it has little impact on other beings, then assign the variable parameter to the Ability score. If the Ability affects other beings, then its ability to do so should be assigned to the Ease Factor. Thus, an Ability that works like Shapeshifter, but instead is used against another being, should not be designed like Shapeshifter at all, but instead have an effect based on casting total: the higher the total, the more change is achieved.''
''When invoking her non-Hermetic magic, a maga Ex Miscellanea usually does so in a manner alien to Hermetic magi.''

[|
''This chapter describes some Supernatural Abilities that use the Art experience scale rather than the Ability experience scale. These are a new type of Ability, called Accelerated Abilities to distinguish them from standard Abilities. These Abilities use the Art experience scale because they are designed to be compared against an Ease Factor outside the usual range (where 21 is extremely difficult, even for a specialist). Instead, typical Ease Factors for Accelerated Abilities are the Mights of supernatural beings, or spell levels. The only other difference between a Supernatural Accelerated Ability and a Supernatural Ability is that the equivalent spell level for an Accelerated Ability  is equal to the Casting Total, not (Ability x 5).''
''Accelerated Abilities are not, however, Arts. The important difference between an Art and an Ability is that an Art is useless on its own — it needs to be paired with at least one other Art to have an effect (even if the score in that Art is zero). An Ability, on the other hand, appears alone in any total. In all respects other than advancement and equivalent spell level, a Supernatural Accelerated Ability should be treated the same as a standard Supernatural Ability; for example, an Accelerated Ability cannot be studied from vis, only receives a +1 bonus per pawn of vis expended, receives a +2 rather than +3 bonus from the Puissant (Ability) Virtue.''

==Accelerated Abilities==


|]
''She might use a dead language other than Latin, or scratch runes on the ground, or employ powders and potions. The details of this procedure should be given in the description of the Ability, and should be no more restrictive than the requirement for words and gestures from a Hermetic magus. However, all uses of the Ability absolutely require the exercise of these practices; they cannot be avoided in the same way that a Hermetic magus can use restricted words and gestures. The invocation of Hermetic magic by magi Ex Miscellanea is (usually) identical to other magi.''

==Example Supernatural Abilities==

''Described below are a few examples of this system in action. All of these are suitable Major Supernatural Virtues for a magus Ex Miscellanea. Further examples may be found in the descriptions of the traditions later in this chapter.''

===Summon Animals===

''This Ability allows the character to summon mundane animals over long distances. To use this Ability, the character must be capable of making an audible call to the creatures he wishes to summon , although the targets need not be able to hear it, and must be within one day’s journey of a habitat where the required species are found. The number of animals that respond to his summons is determined by the score in the character’s Ability; see the table below. He must then make a Communication + Summon Animals roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If successful, the animals arrives within one hour of the character making the call, although exceeding the Ease Factor by 3 makes them come in two minutes, and exceeding it by 6 summons them in a single round.''
''The character cannot directly communicate with the animals unless he has another Ability that allows him to do so (such as Animal Ken), and they depart naturally as determined by the storyguide. Even if the character lacks the ability to communicate with the animals, they''
''are friendly towards him, and if naturally aggressive, may fight to defend him.''

===Ability===


===Score===


===Number of Animals . Arriving===

''1 1 animal of Size –2, or equivalent mass (3 of Size –3, 5 of Size –4, 10 of Size –5, 30 of Size –6, etc.)''
''2 3 animals of Size –2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size –1, 5 of Size –3, 10 of Size –4, 30 of Size –5, etc.)''
''3 5 animals of Size –2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size 0, 3 of Size –1, 10 of Size –3, 30 of Size –4, etc.)''
''4 10 animals of Size –2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size +1, 3 of Size 0, 5 of Size –1, 30 of Size –3, etc.)''
''5 30 animals of Size –2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size +2, 3 of Size +1, 5 of Size 0, 10 of Size –1, etc.)''
''Specialties: a particular type of animal (Supernatural)''

===Whistle Up the Wind===

''A character with this Ability is able to create a wind, duplicating the effects of any wind-based Creo Auram spell at Range Voice and Target Individual; similar Supernatural Abilities exist for other weather phenomena. To invoke the wind, the character literally has to whistle, and makes a Stamina + Whistle Up the Wind roll, against the Ease Factor listed in the table below. If successful, the wind immediately starts to blow as commanded by the character. It continues to blow in the same manner even if the character stops whistling. A character who summons a wind at a particular strength can change that wind to another type with a similar strength (such as from Circular Winds of Protection to Broom of the Winds), diminish it to a weaker effect (such as Chamber of Spring Breezes), or end it entirely. Each of these changes requires a Communication + Music roll, using the Ease Factors for maintaining''
''concentration on a spell (ArM5, page 82). Whistling a new tune in this manner cannot increase the strength of a wind, nor return a diminished wind to its former intensity; instead the character must make a new Whistle Up the Wind roll. All effects of this Ability diminish to the next lowest level of strength each day when the sun sets, until they dwindle to nothing.''

===Ease Factor Strength of Wind===

''6 Light breeze, strong enough to clear a stench from a room''
''9 Moderate wind, strong enough to affect the accuracy of arrows''
''12 Strong wind, powerful enough to propel a sailing ship''
''15 Gale force wind, strong enough to knock someone over''
''18 Hurricane force wind, strong enough to uproot trees''
''Specialties: at sea, in mountains, during the winter (Supernatural)''

===Control Fertility===

''Characters with this Ability may enhance or withdraw the vegetative spirits present in all living things. In plants, this makes them more fertile, or more prone to disease. Cows can be made to produce more milk, or to dry up entirely. A blessing on a woman might guarantee the conception of a child, or render her''

[|

==Story Seed: Animal Experimentation==

''The Summon Animals Ability can call animals more quickly than they could possibly travel under their own speed, and therefore breaks the Limit of Arcane Connection. A magus interested in pursuing Breakthroughs in Magic Theory might seek out a character with this Ability.''

|]
''barren. The Target affected by this Ability is one human, one animal of Size +2 (or an equivalent mass: 1 cow, 5 pigs, 10 sheep, 100 chickens), or one tree (or an equivalent mass: 10 fruit bushes, a small crop of field vegetables or grain). The character’s score in Fertility determines the scope of effects that she can produce. The character must physically mark the target in some way to use this power; this might involve a smudge of soot on the face, a ribbon tied around the neck, a charm buried in a field, and so forth (effectively requiring Range Touch). She must then make a Presence + Fertility roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to affect the target with the chosen power for a month; for every full 3 points over this Ease Factor, the target is affected for one additional month. To make a substantial impact on a target’s livelihood, these effects must last for at least a growing season (three months). Once affected, the same target cannot be affected again by this Ability until the following spring.''

===Ability===


===Score Possible Effects===

''1 Keep minor diseases away from plants''
''2 Double the daily production of an animal (eggs, milk, weight gain), or prevent daily production''
''3 Grant a +3 or –3 modifier to Stamina rolls to avoid contracting a disease, increase or decrease crop yield by one-half''
''4 Ensure the conception of a baby, strike a creature barren, ensure an easy childbirth, grant a +1 or –1 Living Condition Modifier to Aging (must last a year)''
''5 Grant a +6 or –6 modifier to Stamina rolls to avoid contracting a disease''
''Specialties: vegetables, cows, women (Supernatural)''

==Magi Ex Miscellanea Without a Major Supernatural Ability==

''All magi Ex Miscellanea must take a Major non-Hermetic Virtue, but not all members of this House have a Supernatural Ability as their compulsory Virtue. The only requirement is that this Major Virtue represents some aspect of the magus’s nonHermetic tradition. (Thus, Wealthy is not an option, although Magister in Artibus may well be.) It may describe another capability he possesses, such as Greater Immunity, Greater Purifying Touch, or Ways of the (Land). It may be suggestive of his background, such as Strong Faerie Blood or Giant Blood. New Supernatural Virtues that are not controlled by an Ability score should be designed following the rules for  effects instilled into items, complete with uses per day, and should not exceed seventh magnitude. It should have no more flexibility in its effects than a Minor Magical Focus.''

==Characters==

''There are a number of different types of characters within House Ex Miscellanea, who can be broadly split into three groups (although there is shading between all three).''

===Magi Ex Miscellanea===

''These magi make up the majority of the House, and are created according to the usual mechanics presented here and in Ars Magica Fifth Edition. If a Supernatural Ability is acquired as part of the apprenticeship of a magus Ex Miscellanea (that is, as his House Virtue), then this Ability should be considered to be his Favored Ability, and the character does not suffer any penalty to the Source Quality (ArM5, page 166) from his Art scores if learning his Favored Ability after his Hermetic training.''

===Magi Orbi===

''These magi (or their ancestors) began their careers in a different House, but were then exiled (or chose to leave), and could only find solace in House Ex Miscellanea. “Orbus” means “orphaned” in Latin (the feminine form is “orba”), and describes the maga’s severance from her parent tradition. A maga orba is created using the rules for her former House, except that she is denied access to any privileges and secrets of that''

[|

==Favored Abilities==

''As a Gifted character learns Supernatural Abilities, it normally becomes more difficult to learn new ones (ArM5, page 166). However, many traditions have a group of Favored Abilities. Scores in these Abilities do not penalize the Source Quality for learning other Favored Abilities. The Source Qualities to learn Favored Abilities are still penalized by scores in other Supernatural Abilities, and scores in Favored Abilities penalize the Source Quality to learn other Supernatural Abilities. For most magi, the Hermetic Arts are the Favored Abilities, although as they are all opened in one season this is largely an academic distinction. Magi Ex Miscellanea treat the Hermetic Arts and the Supernatural Ability of their tradition as Favored Abilities.''

==Mythic Companions==

''Mythic Companions (a new type of character first introduced in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 104), may also fill the role of non-Hermetic magicians within the Order, but these characters do not have The Gift. Instead, a Mythic Companion has a Special Virtue akin to The Gift, which grants a Minor Virtue at no cost, and then two Virtue points for every point of Flaw he takes. A Mythic Companion character usually has access to strong nonHermetic magic or Powers, described in other source books for Ars Magica Fifth Edition.''

|]
''House. This includes its Mystery Cults, which cannot be pursued further, nor can an orba Initiate any of her apprentices into the Outer Mystery of their former House.''
''A magus orbus has a Hermetic Reputation as an Orbus at a score of 2, and probably avoids his former colleagues. Occasionally, magi orbi have their apprentices trained in one of their adopted House’s traditions, in which case these apprentices adopt the characteristics of a normal magus Ex Miscellanea, and do not inherit the status of orbus. Example: Those Criamon who become disillusioned in their search for truth become members of House Ex Miscellanea known as Gorgiastics (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 52, 73). Example: The magi Ex Miscellanea of the covenant of Dankmar in the Rhine Tribunal (see Guardians of the Forests: The Rhine Tribunal, pages 62–64) are of the tradition of Hercynius, and are orbi of House Bonisagus.''

===Gifted Companions===

''These characters are hedge wizards who are new to the Order, or those who have chosen to retain their native traditions and resist conversion to Hermetic magic. There are very few powerful traditions of magic left in Europe, and the Order of Hermes is less interested in recruiting weak hedge wizards, concentrating solely on those who have The Gift and are thus capable of learning Hermetic magic. The House therefore does not have a steady supply of new recruits.''
''On occasion, however, House Ex Miscellanea assimilates a whole tradition (or a substantial portion of one) at once, and in situations like these there is less impetus for the members of the tradition to adopt Hermetic magic. In this case, it is quite possible that they persist in using their own magic and do not adopt Hermetic magic for many generations, if ever.''
''Both of these situations are very rare. However, a player who wishes to take this option can create her character in the following manner:''
''Take The Gift and Hermetic Magus Social Status Virtues. Taking The Gift •''
''also grants one Supernatural Ability without the need for any other Virtue (ArM5, page 36). Complete character creation as a Companion, but the player can choose Arcane Abilities. Supernatural Abilities are encouraged. Include Parma Magica 1 when allotting experience. Gain the Reputation Hedge Wizard 2 (Hermetic)''
''Since the character has The Gift, she can learn any Supernatural Ability after character creation (ArM5, page 166), but it is assumed that opening the Arts for Hermetic magic has either failed or is not desired. The Supernatural Ability granted by The Gift, and any others paid for with Virtue points, constitute the character’s Favored Abilities (see above). Given the central importance of the Order of Hermes in an Ars Magica saga, troupes should consider whether a Gifted Companion should take the place of a player’s magus character, even though he may not be as powerful. Example: The Scinnfolk (see below)''

==New Virtue==

''The following Virtue is particularly suitable for members of House Ex Miscellanea.''
''Exotic Casting Minor, Hermetic''
''The magus uses non-Hermetic methods  to cast Hermetic spells. While he still needs to employ obvious ritual actions, these are not the same words and gestures taught as part of Magic Theory within the Order, and other magi who are unfamiliar with the magus’s tradition find it very hard to recognize which spell he is casting. Any attempt to determine the Form of his magical effect (ArM5, page 83) is made against an Ease Factor of 15, without the magnitude of the effect being subtracted from this Ease Factor as normal. If the character has any Supernatural Abilities, then he uses the same methods to cast his Hermetic magic as he does to use his non-Hermetic magic. The magus cannot choose to use the standard Hermetic methods instead of those''
''•''
''•''
''of his native tradition, but can choose to reduce or forgo words and gestures in the usual fashion (ArM5, page 83).''

==New Flaws==

''The following Flaws might result from the improper matching of Hermetic and non-Hermetic powers.''
''Flawed Powers Minor, Hermetic''
''The character must have at least one Major Supernatural Virtue to take this Flaw. The character’s supernatural powers are limited or restricted in some fashion. She suffers the effects of a Major Hermetic Flaw (commonly Restriction or Necessary Condition), but it is applied to her Supernatural Virtues rather than to her Hermetic magic (if any). Any Flaw that is only appropriate to Hermetic Magic (for example, Deficient Technique or Unstructured Caster) cannot be taken with this Flaw. A character with Supernatural Powers but not Hermetic magic may take applicable Major and Minor Hermetic Flaws as Major and Minor Supernatural Flaws instead.''
''Vulnerable to Folk Tradition Minor, Hermetic''
''The magus’s magic is susceptible to various folk-remedies for averting hostile spells. Any target who is aware that the magus has just used his magic may attempt a folk ritual such as making a sign against evil, or spitting, and so forth. This grants the target or targets a Magic Resistance equal to (5 x the target’s Magic Lore), or 0 if the target does not have this Ability, against the magus’s magic only. Furthermore, someone with Magic Lore may be able to devise a manner to break a lasting enchantment, such as sprinkling with salt or lying on an iron bed; this typically requires an Intelligence + Magic Lore roll against an Ease Factor of (9 + the spell’s magnitude) or greater.''
''Houses of Hermes Traditions of House Ex Miscellanea''
''House Ex Miscellanea contains a number of traditions of magic that have their roots in non-Hermetic ancestors, and share common magical abilities and preferences . Most magi Ex Miscellanea belong to a tradition, although a few are very small, consisting of just the maga and her master. Typically, however, traditions have somewhere between 5 and 25 members , which may be confined to a specific part of Europe or else widely scattered. In the major sections of the rest of this chapter, eight of the larger traditions of magi Ex Miscellanea are described in detail. Listed immediately below, in addition, are eight other ideas for traditions (some of which appear in more detail in books already published for Ars Magica Fifth Edition). These brief overviews would need to be expanded before being used in play.''

===Beast Masters===

''This tradition commands magic that Hermetic magic finds very hard: the summoning and control of wild creatures. Every apprentice of this tradition was abandoned by his master in areas of wilderness at a very young age, where he had to fend for himself. During this time he developed a particular affinity for a specific group of animals, which forever shapes his magic. Due to this unusual training, all Beast Masters also have the Virtues Animal Ken and Minor Magical Focus with a specific group of animals, but additionally have the flaw of Feral Upbringing. They are never taught how to turn into animal form, or how to harm animals, which results in the Incompatible Arts Flaw (MuCo and PeAn). They therefore have only 8 points of Flaws available to them to buy another 8 points of Virtues.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Summon Animals''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Inoffensive to Animals''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Study Requirement''
''Required Virtues and Flaws: Animal Ken, Minor Magical Focus; Feral Upbringing, Incompatible Arts''

===Damhadh-duidsan===

''Damhadh-Duidas (DAH-vee-doo-IDas, roughly “malice-writer”) was a Gaelic hedge wizard from the same magical tradition as Damhan-Allaidh, who joined up with Pralix on her crusade against the warlock. The magi of this tradition try very hard to put the trappings of their Infernal past behind them.''
''By carving runes called Ogam into trees and stones, or writing these symbols on his face and arms with ashes, a Damhadh-Duidsan can curse and steal the life from his enemies, inflict terrible wounds upon them, and  heal himself in return. Giant Blood is very common in the tradition — both Damhan-Allaidh and Damhadh-Duidas were descended from the giants, according to legend.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Shapechanging, Giant Blood, or Incantation''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Puissant Corpus''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary Condition (runes)''
''(More details on the DamhadhDuidsan and a description of Incantation can be found in Realms of Power: The Infernal.)''

===Hermetic Haruspexes===

''The Hermetic Haruspexes are an ancient Roman tradition who hold the secret of “The Etruscan Art,” that is, the revealing of omens through the inspection of the entrails of animals sacrificed to the gods. They were among the first of the non-British traditions to sign up with Pralix, and boast the honor of having produced two Primi of House Ex Miscellanea: Basilicus and Immanola. Members of this tradition often also have the Premonitions Virtue and/or the Visions Flaw, but their delving into the mysteries of the universe has left them unusually susceptible to Twilight.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Divination and Augury''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Affinity with Intellego''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Twilight Prone''
''(The descriptions of Divination and Augury can be found in The Mysteries Revised Edition.)''

===Karaites===

''Karaism is a sect comprised of Jews who reject the Oral Law of the rabbis, and interpret their holy commandments through a literal reading of the Tanakh only. According to Karaite philosophy, everything that happens in the world is God’s will, and this can be understood by carefully studying the scriptures. Only through human actions can evil come to pass, and thus bad things happen as divine punishment for human transgressions. For example, human and worldly medicine should be avoided, for sickness is evidence of human failing, and God alone should be consulted as physician. Because of their unorthodox interpretations of scripture, pious Karaites (unlike other pious Jews) with The Gift may join the Order of Hermes, so long as they practice holy magic. They believe the laws against enchantment and divination in the Torah do not apply if the effect comes directly from God, though they do not allow other magi to cast spells upon them as this is obviously unclean.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Holy Magic''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Craft Amulets''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Karaite Magic''
''(More details on the Karaites, and descriptions of their Virtues and Flaw, can be found in Realms of Power: The Divine.)''

===Malocchi===

''The Malocchi are a tradition of Italian magi who practice the magic of Entrancement. Being so deeply imbedded in a region’s culture can make it difficult to be a member of this tradition. A maloccho (singular masculine, the feminine form is “maloccha”) is considered to bring terrible luck, and all avoid meeting his gaze, which is believed to not only ensorcel, but also to cause all sorts of other ill-effects. As well as his free Virtues and Flaws, a''
''maloccho must also take Piercing Gaze as a compulsory Virtue. The Hex Virtue (from Realms of Power: The Infernal) is also highly appropriate.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Entrancement''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Special Circumstances (eye contact)''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Weak Magic Resistance (someone standing on their shadow)''
''Required Virtue: Piercing Gaze''

===Scinnfolk (Gifted Companions)===

''The herb-wives and faerie doctors of Mythic Europe have a few representatives in the Order of Hermes; these Gifted Companions are often known as the Scinnfolk (pronounced SHIN-folk, meaning “cunning folk”), because the first to join the Order was a Saxon who gave this name to his tradition. The Scinnfolk have no systematic approach to the petty magics they command, for they do not constitute a true tradition, but instead have an eclectic knowledge of natural magic and faerie charms which is passed down orally from master to pupil. They have largely resisted integration into Hermetic magic, preferring to spend time in the community helping others rather than pouring over dusty tomes. Scinnfolk are usually Companion characters, despite being members of the Order.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Fertility (free with The Gift)''
''Common Virtues & Flaws: Gentle Gift, Purifying Touch (Greater or Lesser), Student of Magic or Faerie Realm; Visions, Faerie Friend''

===Tempestaria (Weather Witch)===

''This tradition figures prominently in lands occupied by the Saxons, including their homeland in northern Germany as well as in England and Denmark. Weather magic is well integrated into Hermetic magic, and the art of Auram is populated with highly useful spells. The hedge witches known as Tempestariae are experts in these very magics. However, the weatherwitch is capable of summoning weather''
''that exceeds the capacity of his Hermetic powers. There are weather-witches who can summon rain that can last for days, or who can cause no rain to fall at all for an entire season. The fogs summoned by a tempestaria from the sea have bound ships into the harbors all along an entire coastline. The most common type of tempestaria, however, is one who can bind the wind to her service. They require simple improvised tools that have sympathetic relationships to their spells — feathers for snow magic, drums for thunder magic, scattered sand for rain magic, and so forth.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Whistle Up the Wind (or similar Ability)''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Affinity with Auram''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary Condition (tools for their magic to work)''

===Witches of Thessaly===

''The original Thessalians were reclusive worshipers of sinister gods of the underworld; they practiced sorcery, necro''
''mancy, and could cast potent curses at their enemies. Trianoma, the famed apprentice of Bonisagus, was a member of this tradition (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 6), but other members of her tradition did not join the Order for another hundred years. Some Thessalians remain in contact with their sisters who did not join the Order — called the Daughters of Erictho — which usually places them under great suspicion of diabolism. These non-Hermetic wizards dwell in the Cambunian Mountains on the northern border of Thessaly, where they can quickly and easily move between portals that lead to Faerie regiones and their cliffside caves. Their ways are pagan, but these rites are inherently selfish and full of dark mischief, and thus the line separating their practices from demon worship is very fine.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Summoning''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Affinity with Vim''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Painful Magic''

[|
''Several of the traditions of House Ex Miscellanea are specific to a culture or a geographic area. While it is perfectly possible that a wandering magus might bring his magic into a different culture or region, it is a comparably simple task to make a few changes to a tradition and relocate them to a different area:''
''The Koldun are shamanic wizards from the Novgorod Tribunal who have abandoned their roles as pagan priests in favor of the practice of sorcery. (Witches of Thessaly) There are said to be wizards called the Trollsynir who still live in the northern lands of Scandinavia and Iceland, who claim descent from the giants, and who bear the power to curse their enemies. (Damhadh-Duidsan) An Irish tradition of wizards called the Corrguineach display control over elemental spirits; they were''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''powerful enemies of House Diedne and joined forces with House Flambeau to exterminate them. (Hermetic Sahir) Breton bards who bear the blood of a water faerie called the Melusine left House Diedne for House Ex Miscellanea a mere score years before the Schism War. They have the power to enchant with the music played on their harps. (Seirenes) A group of Roman necromancers use their power over spirits to terrorize the locals and win power for themselves. (Donatores) The Taltos from among the Magyar people of the Hungarian plains use their knowledge of herbcraft to increase their physical characteristics and martial skills, as well as for healing. Many Taltos have the Skinchanger Virtue, allowing them to assume the form of a white horse. (Pharmocopoeians)''
''•''
''•''
''•''

==Ringing the Changes==


|]
''(More details on the Witches of Thessaly and description of Summoning can be found in Realms of Power: The Infernal.)''

==Columbae==

''The swynwyr (pronounced “SWINweer;” singular swynwr, “SWIN-oor”; feminine singular swynwraig, “swin-OOR-aig;” plural swynwragedd, “swin-oor-RAG-edth”) are Welsh hedge wizards well known for their skill at magical wards. Because this requires them to leave markings wherever they go, they have become known within the Order of Hermes as the Columbae, literally, “pigeons.”. In some cases this nickname is affectionately meant, while in others it is clearly derogatory. They are also sometimes called the “ward-makers” or the “white-nailed,” the latter term in reference to their use of chalk with most of their spells.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Stonehenge Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Warding''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Ring/Circle''
''Magic Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary''
''Condition (must mark their target)''

==History==

''The original Columbae probably developed out of the earliest magical traditions of Britain, a combination of Celtic heritage mixed with ancient Roman influences. They have always been strongest in Wales, where the negative images associated with magic and sorcery are not as pronounced as they are in other parts of the world. There they generally remain apart from the rest of human society, but ties of blood are also particularly strong in their tradition and so they are not often found very far from their homeland.''
''By the early 800s, the Columbae had become one of the most recognizable groups of hedge wizards on the main island''
''of Britain, and were the largest native tradition. Two other groups were outsiders, the fierce Anglo-Saxon rune wizards of the east and the monstrous gruagachan of the north. These groups joined together under Damhan-Allaidh to oppose the Order, and while some of the swynwyr assisted them, most of the wizards of the tradition chose to remain holed up in Wales and did not get involved. It was the swynwyr that Pralix finally convinced to join her cause, and this gave her a foothold on the British Isles from which she could launch her campaign. They established a camp on an island near Dunoding to serve as her military headquarters for much of the conflict, and this became the site of the last battle against their enemies. After the war, it was renamed Cad Gadu to represent the end of the conflict, and later became the domus magna of the new House Ex Miscellanea.''
''The leader of the tradition when it officially joined the Order was named Colomen (“co-LO-men”), and with the help of Pralix’s instruction he and his wife Gwyndolen (“gween-DOH-len”) adapted their powers to Hermetic magic, and together they spread copies of their many ward-spells throughout the Order. They hoped to quickly overcome the negative image associated with being hedge wizards and sorcerers of Britain by sharing their magical knowledge with other magi, a goal that they largely achieved in the years that followed. They encouraged the use of the name “Columbae” for themselves and their followers, believing that it was better that they be perceived as comical figures than frightening ones, and so that is how other magi came to use this term for them. In 1220, swywyr is used only rarely, to refer to those in the tradition who are not magi.''

==Culture==

''The Columbae have very few traditions unique to their line, instead having adopted the few trappings associated with the House as a whole, many of which originally came from them. They often wear white or very pale-colored clothing, and usually carry chalk or some other soft, light-colored stone with which to draw their circles — charred wood will also do,''
''as will their own blood when they are desperate. Many of them carry a gnarled staff, the symbol of the House, and also a useful means of drawing a ring in soft ground. Among their own kind they speak Welsh and still refer to each other as swynwyr. Among others, they tend to speak Latin poorly and try to maintain their image of affable, friendly foreigners.''
''Being Welsh, traditions of family and their shared cultural heritage are very important to the Columbae. According to Welsh inheritance customs, property is divided more or less equally among a man’s sons, or other male relatives if there are no sons, and men can only inherit from other men in their cenedl (“ken-ED-el”), the group of men male-line descended from a single ancestor. A group of Welshmen who are male-line descended from a common greatgrandfather are called kindred, and they are responsible for keeping order among their members. They are also responsible for looking after orphans and widows, resolving minor disputes between family members, and arbitrating the sale of land; no land may change owners without their consent. Thus, kindred keep careful track of their relatives and their property, and male Columbae often have many societal obligations.''
''For these reasons, unGifted Columbae are almost always women, and have been throughout history, as they have fewer responsibilities in Welsh society and are more encouraged to pursue magical interests. Unmarried women are essentially inconsequential in Wales, at least as far as inheritance and politics are concerned, and so as long as they can care for themselves, they are left alone for the most part. Because of this, and because most Columbae were women when they first joined the Order, magi commonly use the feminine gender when describing their magic or their followers.''
''The Gift is unpredictable and does not favor one sex or the other, but because most unGifted Columbae are women, the Columbine magi still adhere to the culture of their mundane counterparts, and often behave as if they were superior to their female counterparts. Since they joined the Order, the structure of the tradition has come to more closely resemble a patriarchy, where magi outrank magae,''

[|
''The event that made the swynwyr decide to join with Pralix against Damhan-Allaidh was the sudden death of their eldest swynwraig, named Gwawrieir (“gwah-REE-eyr”), who was effectively the leader of their magical tradition, and who staunchly opposed getting involved in the battle with the wizards of the mainland. Her lifeless body was found lying within one of her own protective circles, and she had eight long, black marks upon her throat, as if she had been strangled from behind by four pairs of hands. Her family was forced to conclude that she had been killed by the evil magic of their northern enemy, and this assumption was supported by the fact that she still wore her enchanted robes, a fabulous treasure said to protect her against all natural threats and every kind of supernatural creature.''
''The remaining swynwyr were frightened and wavering, unsure what to do against powers that could penetrate such powerful magical protection. Though they had rudely refused her last visit, they sent a messenger to Pralix requesting another audience with her, and invited her to make her case again. Her eloquence, coupled with the terror and confusion left in the wake of Gwawrier’s passing, quickly convinced them to join her cause. While they made preparations for war, she proceeded to seek out the other nonaligned wizards of Britain and convert them, and three months later, on the eve of their departure for battle, the swynwyr gave her the magical garment once worn by her predecessor as a sign that she had become''
''one of them. She accepted their gift, and named them the Robes of Dusty Dawn.''
''It remains a great mystery why half a century later Pralix departed from Cad Gadu without wearing the robes, for she had never before gone anywhere without''
''them. Perhaps it was because her trip was personal, rather than official, or it might be that she had decided they were too much trouble while traveling. Many think that she knew she was going away forever, and left them for her successor, continuing the tradition that brought the robes to her; for this reason, the robes are now treated as a symbol of the office''
''of Primus, and pass with the position to each newly-elected magus. Others in the House suspect betrayal, arguing that Pralix must have been abducted or murdered by one of her own, someone close to her who knew she would be''
''traveling unprotected. To quell such accusations, the first Prima of the House instituted the tradition of holding a council seat for Pralix and maintaining the illusion that she is still the leader of the covenant.''
''The robes still appear exactly the same in 1220 as they did when Pralix first received them. They are woven of fine wool, dyed a pale lavender-rose color. The bottom half appears to be faded, and upon closer examination one can see that the cloth is covered with many lines of chalk markings, more than two dozen distinct bands of arcane symbols and shapes written directly upon the threads. It looks dusty; if one could swat the garment with a hand or stick, a great cloud of chalk dust would surely form, but its powerful magic prevents this. It may be pulled over the head when worn, and removed the same way, but no natural substance or phenomenon may otherwise pass within the perimeter formed by the hem, and thus it must be removed to eat or drink.''
''The robes are rumored to possess other great powers as well, and a popular Hermetic legend tells that they were enchanted by Verditius the Founder as a gift to Pralix — though since Verditius died at about the same time as the war against Damhan-Allaidh, this is probably only a myth.''

==The Robes of Dusty Dawn==


|]
''and Gifted boys are much more desirable apprentices than girls. For this reason, Columbine magae tend to associate with unGifted members of their tradition more often than Gifted, and do not involve themselves in their political affairs. To outsiders it might even appear that there are no female Columbae in 1220.''

==Characters==

''The magic of the Columbae is based on an Accelerated Ability (see Accelerated Abilities, above) called Warding. This may be learned by characters with The Gift or taken during character creation as a Major Supernatural Virtue. While there might be hedge wizards elsewhere in the world who practice a similar sort of magic (that is, they have the same Ability and use it the same way), the Columbae do not acknowledge foreigners as being part of their tradition — all Columbae are Welsh, or so they maintain.''
''Hermetically, the Columbae have very few uniting features, apart from their interest in magical wards and warding spells. Since the Schism War, a select few of them have been trying to develop a version of the spell Aegis of the Hearth that they can cast on their circles instead of on a Boundary, or to develop a Ring-based version of the Parma Magica, but so far all of their attempts have failed, and the underlying feeling within the tradition is that their magic is fundamentally incompatible with that of the Founder’s line. This is why there are two very different kinds of wards in Hermetic magic: the ones like the Aegis and the Parma Magica, which have developed from the magic of House Bonisagus, and the ones like Circular Ward Against Demons and Circle of Beast Warding, which the Columbae introduced to the Order.''

===Major Supernatural Virtue: Warding===

''The Columbae practice a form of ward-magic that predates the Order, but which was later integrated into Hermetic magic theory. It bears many similarities to the powers of the spirit masters and sorcer''
''ers of the ancient world. To represent this knowledge, the character begins with the Accelerated Ability called Warding. This power is aligned with the Magic realm as the Columbae teach it, though there are also said to be other versions associated with the other realms.''
''When the character wishes to use her power, she must draw a circle in the same manner as in Hermetic magic (this takes her about as long as it does a Hermetic magus), concentrating as she inscribes special arcane symbols into the border that define the properties of the things that will be warded away. This definition must be a subset of a single Hermetic Form, such as “mundane animals” (Animal), “earth faeries” (Terram), or “demons” (Vim). The ward can be made more specific, excluding from this ward things that are or are not of specific shapes or materials, such as “mundane animals larger than a mouse” or “earth faeries not made of stone.” She may also use an Arcane Connection to specify these properties, such as “mundane animals that are not my horse” or “only the king of the faerie mountain.”''
''As soon as the circle is finished, the Columba enchants the perimeter with her magical power, and this effort always costs her a Fatigue level. Roll a stress die, applying her Stamina score, her Warding score, and the bonus or penalty for the aura to the total, in addition to any other appropriate modifiers.''

===Warding Total: Stress Die + Stamina +===


===Warding + Aura===

''If the ward is designed to affect a natural object or type of material, treat this result as the character’s Casting Total for a Hermetic spell of the appropriate Form and level to determine if a particular target will be warded away. (To make this easier to calculate, these spell guidelines are collected below.) For example, a ring designed to ward away mundane animals would succeed if the Warding Total were 5 or greater, and a ward against objects made of wood requires a Warding Total of at least 30.''
''Warding is best at warding away supernatural creatures with a Might score; when it is used to affect beings with Might, calculate the character’s Penetration Total as if the spell level were 0, and treat the full''
''Penetration Total as the final level of the effect. For example, to ward against a target with Might 15, a Columba would only need a (Warding Total + Penetration Total) of 15. As mentioned above, a Columba''

[|

==The Fate of Cad Gadu==

''Cad Gadu (“KAHD GAH-dee”) is primarily encompassed by a magical regio, but the parts of it that extend into the mundane world are built on an island that is technically owned by a Columbine magus, Gwrhyr (“GOOrear”) Ex Miscellanea, who has no children but many male relatives. He is a blustering incompetent, extremely old and seemingly very dim, who constantly demands the “proper respect” for his abilities, and by virtue of his age and status in the covenant he has gained a seat on the Council of Four. He does have a filius, Culhwch (“KEEL-hookh”) Ex Miscellanea, but they are not related by blood. Both of them are extremely disliked by Gwrhyr’s kindred, who have refused to allow him to give the property to his adopted son. When Gwrhyr finally dies, an event that his relatives believe must happen soon, they will claim ownership of the covenant lands and evict the magi, all with the law entirely on their side.''
''The former Prima Immanola woefully neglected this situation, and with the recent confusion associated with the elevation of a new Primus, and with Gwrhyr himself sitting on the Council, no one has yet brought the matter to Ebroin’s attention. When the issue is finally addressed, those dispatched to deal with the problem may find that the members of Gwrhyr’s family are already suspicious of both his great age and his reputation as a sorcerer, and have managed to bring the matter to the attention of the Prince of Gwynedd, who has expressed an interest in meeting this seemingly immortal Welshman. A court date has been set, and if Gwrhyr does not appear and stand for examination, the land will automatically default to his heirs.''

|]
''can incorporate an Arcane Connection to a particular target into her ward, so that the power only affects that target, and her Penetration Total is boosted even further against it.''
''Unfortunately, Warding cannot affect creatures with Magic Resistance instead of''
''Might, and so the Penetration Total of the effect is 0 when the warded thing is not a supernatural being. Because Warding only affects either natural or supernatural things, Columbine wards are extremely vulnerable to beings that do not fit perfectly into one of these categories; anyone who has Magic Resistance but no Might score is essentially immune to the effects.''

===Minor Hermetic Virtue: Ring/circle Magic===

''Because the Columbae introduced the Ring Duration and Circle Target to Hermetic magic, their followers are not as constrained as other magi regarding how they use them with their spells. For one thing, they can draw a typical circle much more quickly, moving at twice the normal speed, and they only need to roll their Concentration if the circle is broken while casting, not to maintain the spell''
''while they are drawing the ring. Also, their Ease Factor for maintaining Concentration while casting a spell on a ring or a circle is reduced by 3.''
''In addition, a Columba can treat any well-defined boundary as a Circle by marking it plainly, using the same symbols she uses to make her Warding circles. She may cast a spell upon a room or building by inscribing her marks on the door, for example. If her target is an enclosed space, she has only to mark the outside of each entrance. If it is a natural boundary, such as the edge of a forest or a city wall, she must traverse the border at the same speed as if she were drawing a ring (which is still twice as fast as other magi), and mark it so that one of her symbols is visible from every direction. If any of these marks are erased or damaged, it is the same as if the circle had been broken, and the effect immediately ends.''
''When drawing a circle, a Columba can forgo her faster casting time and her''

[|

==Wards and Penetration==

''Hermetic warding spells were all originally adapted from the Columbine tradition, and like any Hermetic spell, these wards must penetrate Magic Resistance to have their effect. A spell like Circular Ward Against Demons is much harder to cast at high levels, since both the spell level and the Penetration Total must exceed any affected demon’s Might Score. For this reason, magi rarely learn or cast versions of these spells more powerful than about Level 30, instead favoring Rego spells of lower levels that hinder the target’s movements more directly.''
''Since in most cases Hermetic wards do not actually target the creatures affected by them, most magi cannot boost their Penetration Total with an Arcane Connection to a supernatural being, unless that being is inside the circle when the ward is cast. This could be due to a flaw in Hermetic theory, or it could be that the Columbine wards were never perfectly adapted to Hermetic magic. Columbae can do this with their Warding power because they incorporate a set of magical symbols into the circle that describe the warded being.''
''Neither the Columbine wards nor the Hermetic wards based on them are as useful against beings with Magic Resistance not based on Might, such as men and women with True Faith or magi with the Parma Magica — Hermetic wards must penetrate the person’s Magic Resistance, but Warding cannot affect them at all. For this reason, most magi prefer to protect their sancta and their persons with effects like Watching Ward or Waiting Spell that do not come from the Columbine tradition, instead triggering other effects designed to drive away threats or punish intruders.w''
''Since Warding is a kind of hedge magic that has been almost completely integrated into Hermetic magic, wards designed using that power are generally inferior to the wards that magi can make. A magus who devotes his study to Rego can find more and better study sources than a Columba who focuses on Warding, and is able to do much more than just ward circles, including the creation of wards bound to Targets other than Circle. Magi can also increase two Arts to influence their casting total, not just one, and can invent formulaic spells that ensure they do not become fatigued, and which they can Master for other advantages. There are also many Hermetic Virtues that the magus may have to increase his Casting Total in certain circumstances.''
''For a direct comparison of wards, consider an experienced magus with Rego 20, and an experienced Columba with Warding 20. The magus can probably cast a formulaic spell to ward away any natural thing from the circle, while the Columba can most likely manage the same with her Ability (though it is''
''useless against natural things with Magic Resistance). Assuming no Penetration, the magus can develop a formulaic spell that will almost certainly affect a supernatural creature with Might 10, and may even be able to manage Might 15. The Columba, however, also leaving aside Penetration, can produce a ward that affects beings with twice that score, certainly warding away beings with Might 20, and sometimes keeping at bay beings with Might 30 or more.''
''Hermetic magic can thus be seen to be superior to Warding in nearly every application involving wards, but the Columbae still have a slight advantage when Warding against supernatural beings, and so retain their distinct identity within the House and the Order. For protecting a covenant, the Aegis of the Hearth is always a better choice, but when away from their home and faced with beings that possess a Might Score of 50 or more, Columbae who have specialized in Warding are probably the only characters who can set up a reliable magical defense against them.''

==Warding vs. Wards==


==Ward Guidelines==

''Here are the various guidelines for warding the different Forms in Ars Magica Fifth Edition. All of them are presented at Range Touch, Duration Ring, and Target: Circle, since Warding always uses those same parameters.''
''Since Hermetic wards must penetrate a being’s Magic Resistance to be effective, it is a good idea to note the caster’s Penetration Total in addition to the level of the spell. Even with spells that are designed to affect mundane things, it is possible that the character could encounter a special type of target that can resist the effect. For example, a spell designed to ward away animals will not affect a Bjornaer magus in animal form unless it penetrates his Parma Magica.''
''Animal General: Ward against beings associated with Animal from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 5:	Ward against animals or objects''
''made from animal products. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Aquam General: Ward against beings associated with Aquam from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 20: Ward against liquids. (Touch,''
''Ring, Circle)''
''Auram General: Ward against beings associated with Auram from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Level 10: Ward against a type of minor''
''weather phenomenon, such as mist. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 15: Ward against a type of normal''
''weather phenomenon, such as rain. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 20: Ward against a type of severe''
''weather phenomenon, such as gale force wind. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 25: Ward against a type of very''
''severe weather phenomenon, such as a bolt of lightning. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Corpus General: Ward against beings associated with Corpus from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 30: Ward against human beings.''
''(Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Herbam General: Ward against beings associated''
''with Herbam from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 30: Ward against plant products.''
''(Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Ignem General: Ward against beings associat''
''ed with Ignem from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 15: Ward against fire doing up to +5''
''damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 20: Ward against fire doing up to''
''+10 damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 25: Ward against fire doing up to''
''+15 damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Level 30: Ward against fire doing up to''
''+20 damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 35: Ward against fire doing up to''
''+25 damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 40: Ward against fire doing up to''
''+30 damage. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Imaginem General: Ward against beings associated''
''with Imaginem from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Mentem General: Ward against beings associated''
''with Mentem from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Terram General: Ward against beings associated''
''with Terram from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 20: Ward against dirt, sand, mud, or''
''clay. (Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 25: Ward against stone or glass.''
''(Touch, Ring, Circle) Level 30: Ward against metal or gem''
''stone. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''
''Vim General: Ward against all supernatural''
''beings from one realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell. (Touch, Ring, Circle)''

|]
''ability to simply mark the perimeter of the circle, and instead add the magical symbols associated with Warding, allowing her to target or exclude from the effect things of a specific shape or material, just as when using her Warding power. This also allows her to incorporate an Arcane Connection into the spell to boost her Penetration against a particular being. For example, an Intellego Vim spell intended to alert the caster whenever faeries enter the ring might be cast with an Arcane Connection to a particularly powerful faerie instead, limiting her effect to that faerie but ensuring that the spell will penetrate its Faerie Might.''
''Columbae can only take advantage of these benefits when casting Hermetic spells of Range Touch, Duration Ring, and Target Circle (ArM5, page 114) — any deviation from these parameters and this Virtue no longer applies. They cannot apply them to their Warding power, as they represent ways that their tradition’s deep understanding of magical wards has improved their Hermetic magic.''

===Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary Condition===

''All Columbae must mark their targets as part of their magic. That is, they must indicate the target of each spell in a definite way while casting, usually by drawing a magical symbol on it with chalk that they can dust off immediately afterward. They can use more permanent means if desired: some Columbae carve their circles and symbols into stone, for example, digging a slightly deeper mark each time they cast a spell in that place. Others favor paint or ink of a certain color that they can write with and even throw at their targets when necessary.''
''Columbae can sometimes make a model or a representation of their target, like a picture or a figurine that clearly resembles their target, and write their marks on that. They can also draw on an Arcane Connection to their target. These methods are usually sufficient for when they need to affect something at greater than Touch Range.''

==The Donatores Requietis Aeternae==

''The Donatores Requietis Aeternae (“Givers of Eternal Rest”) is a young tradition of magi with religious backgrounds that exists to ensure that the spirits of the dead reach their final resting place.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Their strongest''
''concentration is in Normandy and Stonehenge, but the Donatores are also''
''present in the adjacent Tribunals. Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Banishing''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Minor Magical''
''Focus (in Mentem for spirits/ghosts, or''
''Corpus for animated dead) Major Hermetic Flaw: Restriction (can''
''not cast spells on consecrated ground)''

==History==

''That the cadavers of the dead, borne by I know not what spirit, leave their tombs to wander among the living, terrorizing and annihilating them, then return to their tombs which open by themselves before the dead, is a fact that would be difficult to accept if in our age numerous examples did not prove it and if accounts did not abound. If such facts occurred in the past, it is surprising that we find no trace of them in the books of the Ancients, who put great effort into setting memorable things down in writing. . . . Moreover, were I to write down all the instances of this kind which I have learned to have transpired in our times, the undertaking would be beyond measure laborious and troublesome.''
''— William of Newburgh, Historia Rerum Anglicarum usque ad annum 1198, book five, chapter 24''

===Cult of the Dead===

''Beginning in the 11th century, many medieval authors noted a disturbing trend of frequent and often deadly encounters''
''with the restless dead. The phenomenon of the dead rising from their graves in corporeal form was largely unknown in most of Europe before this time. The chroniclers likewise record an increase in ghostly visitations by the recently deceased, frequent hauntings of notorious places, and the walking dead terrorizing the countryside.''
''The writers of the time blame this problem on the rise of a “cult of the dead.” Whether the meddling of this cult in matters necromantic has caused the dead to walk the earth or the cult actively controls the restless dead is unknown. The authors are unable to identify the members of this alleged cult, but they point to several types of suspects: diabolist pursuing the agenda of their dark master, magicians attempting to divine the future, or laypeople yearning to find out the condition of their dead loved ones. Some writers suggest that it is a sign of the impending Apocalypse.''
''The existence and identity of the cult of the dead and whether it is actually responsible for the attacks of the restless dead that have plagued much of Mythic Europe for the last two centuries are best left to the storyguide’s discretion.''

===Founding the Tradition===

''In the early years of the 12th century, many others noted this problem and took steps to protect their communities. They included clergy, hedge wizards, and others who encountered the restless dead, but their efforts often met with little success. It seemed as if the dead might be unstoppable, but then some of those afflicted by the restless dead received saintly visitations. The saints granted each person knowledge of a powerful ritual to combat the restless dead. The ritual called upon the power of the Divine to expel the creatures from the community. With this new weapon, those arrayed against the dead began to reverse the tide.''
''After several years of struggling against the restless dead individually, each person received a secondly saintly visitation that commanded him to travel to Normandy, where a terrible situation was developing. The restless dead were terrorizing the citizens of a town, spreading disease, and killing any who left their homes after dusk.''
''The local clergy had fallen to an Infernal plot and were using the dead to drive the last honest citizens out of the town.''
''The men and women who would found the Donatores converged on the town and, in an epic battle, destroyed the restless dead there, but not before several of them lost their lives. Although most of the founders had never before met, they swore to work together to prevent such a tragedy from occurring again. They agreed to collaborate in fighting the rising tide of restless dead. They named themselves the Donatores Requietis Aeternae, “Givers of Eternal Rest.”''

===Incorporation Into the Order===

''While the Donatores were fighting the rising tide of restless dead, members of the Order of Hermes were also examining the phenomenon. In their investigations, several magi learned of the problem developing in the Normandy Tribunal and moved to investigate the town. By the time they arrived, the magi encountered the hedge wizards who would become the Donatores Requietis Aeternae successfully defeating the creatures.''
''Muirgheal, a Quaesitor leading the group, invited the Gifted Donatores to join the Order en masse. Most Donatores were willing to swear the Hermetic Oath and join, but several others initially resisted because of their desire to remain a part of the Church. Other Donatores refused because they were familiar with the Order and believed that its magi were members of the cult of the dead and the source of all of the troubles. Muirgheal brought several of the recalcitrant Donatores to her covenant and convinced them that the Order was not involved in the problem. Murigheal explained the Order’s prohibition against dealing with the Infernal and recounted the punishment that House Tytalus had endured for its corruption.''
''After swearing the Oath, the Donatores accompanied Murigheal to the next Tribunal for their introduction to the rest of the Order. Their presence lead to an acrimonious debate where some magi suggested the Order should instantly March the Donatores to prevent the Church from discovering the''
''inner secrets of the Order. Others argued that this hysterical fear of the Donatores was completely unwarranted. The debate served as a proxy for the magi to discuss the feelings many had concerning the March on House Diedne without forcing the magi to comment publicly on the prudence of the Schism War. Ultimately, the Donatores Requietis Aeternae were allowed to remain in the Order under the condition that House Guernicus monitor their relations with the Church closely.''

==Culture==

''The primary goal of the Donatores Requietis Aeternae is to assist the dead in passing out of the world of the living. In dealing with the dead, the Donatores may come into contact with several types''
''of creatures: the evil dead, ghosts who are in purgatory, spirits who were not buried under the protection of the Divine, and those who died under unfortunate circumstances.''

===Quieting the Restless Dead===

''When a person dies with an important task unfinished, while in a highly emotional state, or as the victim of violence, he is likely to return as a spirit. In addition, the dead may return from the grave if they died under other unfortunate circumstances. A suicide, a mother who dies in childbirth, or a stillborn baby could return. These restless dead often seek something from the world of the living. They might want to exact revenge, to right a wrong, or to participate in the family life that they were denied by death. Donatores use their powers to''

[|
''Most people are properly laid to rest according to the religious customs of the locale. In Christian areas, there were, however, some people whom the Church refused to lay to rest. Only baptized persons have a claim to a Christian burial. This rule often prevents stillborn children or those who die before their baptism from being laid to rest. They might be buried near the church or in a special, unconsecrated corner of the graveyard that is removed from the rest of the graves, if the Church buries them at all.''
''The age at which someone entering the Church was baptized varied by location. Some areas only allowed children to be baptized by a cardinal or bishop during one of his visits to the local church. Other areas held group baptisms of children during the Easter or Whitsun Mass. However, in the 13th century most areas began adopting rules that required a child’s baptism to occur within one week of its birth. Many believed that if a child died unbaptized it had not been absolved of its original sin and it would never be able to go to Heaven. In some areas, they believed that unbaptized babies would go to the Faerie realm to live out their lives or return as ghosts.''
''A dead person cannot receive a baptism, but one that shows signs of life can. The rule caused many parents and clergymen to perform elaborate practices to simulate signs of life in a dead child. The child might be left in the cold and then warmed before the priest, who would see changes in coloration or involuntary muscle spasms as “signs of life” and then be able to baptize the child. The Church created rules against this sort of chicanery, but they were often ignored. Obviously, most Hermetic magi would have little problem simulating signs of life in a stillborn child. The effects of a baptism on a corpse should be left to the storyguide, but the most relevant consequence is that the body is eligible for Christian burial.''
''Because the funerary rites are considered a form of respect for the dead, the Church also refuses to administer them to victims of suicide, to notorious or unrepentant criminals, and to excommunicated individuals. Even the very poor, if their families had not tithed and could not afford the honoraria for the funeral services, might be refused a Christian burial. Excommunicated and unrepentant sinners were often buried at a crossroads or intersection and would likely haunt them.''

==Baptism==


|]
''investigate the causes of these types of hauntings, and are loath to simply destroy such spirits. The Donatores consider using Perdo magic on these spirits the equivalent of murder. (See The Mysteries Revised Edition and Realms of Power: Magic for a more complete discussion of ghosts.)''
''Where ghosts or the restless dead are engaged in wanton destruction and killing, they are likely to be Infernal creatures, and the Donatores are less concerned about the use of destructive magic. This is not always the case, however, especially where a spirit is killing to right a wrong that could not be corrected in life. These ghosts are just as likely to be of the Magic or Faerie realms. Regardless of the source of their power, the Donatores are concerned with combating the destructive restless dead. They are always very careful to confirm the origin of any restless dead before interacting with it. Not all Infernal spirits engage in this reckless destruction. Many pose as benign spirits of recently deceased family members to corrupt the living and lead them into committing sin. (See Realms of Power: The Infernal for a discussion of diabolic spirits.)''

===Traditions of the Donatores Requietis Aeternae===

''The Donatores Requietis Aeternae tradition is barely a century old, which makes it very young in comparison to many others within House Ex Miscellanea. Most of the current generation of Donatores are the filii of the founders of the tradition. Several of the founders are still alive, and those who are dead are still in the living memory of most members. Although they are not generally venerated, some Donatores have made efforts to collect the founders’ writings, magical devices, and personal effects to preserve their memory for future generations of the Donatores Requietis Aeternae.''
''Not all of the founders of the tradition were members of the Church, but they and their filii often select apprentices from religious backgrounds. Most people who encounter a restless spirit contact a clergyman or other religious figure, but most members of the clergy are largely unequipped to deal with the restless dead. However, some develop a talent for communicating with spirits or pos''
''sess Supernatural Abilities, such as Second Sight. While searching for and quieting the restless dead, Donatores who encounter members of the Church with The Gift or Supernatural Abilities attempt to recruit them to their tradition.''
''The religious background of many of the Donatores is also evidenced by the typical dress of the tradition. Donatores often wear the brown or black robes of lay members of a religious order in the area, or a simple monk’s habit. Highwaymen and secular officials are unlikely to pay much attention to anyone appearing to be a simple monk, and people are often more comfortable confiding in them.''

===Organization===

''The Donatores Requietis Aeternae is one of the largest “necromantic” groups in House Ex Miscellanea. They are loosely organized by the standards of the Order, but within their House they cooperate more than most other traditions. They often work together to combat peculiar situations where many ghosts are haunting an area, or a particularly powerful creature threatens one of the group. The eldest member of the tradition serves as its head and determines how the Donatores allocate their resources in combating the restless dead.''
''The Donatores are a secretive tradition. Many of the Donatores who were members of the Church dabbled in necromancy and other forbidden arts before receiving their saintly visions. The potential for persecution by the Church, or discovery by the cult of the dead, led many Donatores, even prior to the founding of the tradition, to guard the secrecy of their work. This institutional paranoia continues. But nevertheles, many Donatores with religious ties maintain contact with their unGifted brothers in the Church. These contacts often provide valuable information concerning the activities of the restless dead.''

===Surveillance By House Guernicus===

''In addition to the belief that the Donatores were little more than spies for''
''the Pope, the secrecy with which they conduct their work and the subject matter of their magic has led House Guernicus to pay them particular attention. Because Donatores do not generally summon spirits, Infernal or otherwise, and are focused on quieting them, these investigations have uncovered no hint of diabolism. This has not stopped House Guernicus from continuing to monitor the Donatores closely.''
''Many members of the tradition believe that this close scrutiny continues at the prompting of House Tremere. Many members of that House were initially against the admission of the Donatores into the Order. As the Order’s preeminent necromancers, Tremere magi often wish to control powerful spirits, while the Donatores Requietis Aeternae want to assist them in achieving eternal peace, or destroy them.''

==Characters==

''When a member of the Donatores Requietis Aeternae encounters a spirit he uses his magic to communicate with it to assess whether he will be able to assist it in finding peace. Methods of assistance might include aiding the spirit in performing any unfulfilled tasks that keep it bound to this world. If communication and assistance are impossible because of the creature’s hostility, he uses Banishing to neutralize the spirit while investigating it by interviewing its relatives, discovering the nature of its death, locating its remains, or if it is an Infernal creature, uncovering its True Name.''
''The Donatores Requietis Aeternae usually emphasize the study of Mentem for dealing with incorporeal spirits; however, in areas where the walking dead are more prevalent, especially in the Transylvanian and Loch Leglean Tribunals, and in Ultima Thule, many Donatores concentrate on Corpus. Although there are few Abilities beyond Banishing that Donatores favor, many have trained in Dominion, Faerie, Infernal, and Magic Lore to assist them in distinguishing the origin of the restless dead they encounter.''
''New Virtue: Banishing Major, Supernatural''
''Choosing this Virtue confers a Supernatural Accelerated Ability called Banishing, which begins at a score of 1. The character is able to banish any creature with a Might score for a limited amount of time. While banished, the creature must avoid the location described by the character or suffer intense pain and discomfort.''
''To banish a creature, the character loudly calls upon the source of the Accelerated Ability, forcefully commands all creatures of a specific realm to depart the designated area, and expends one level of Fatigue. This declaration means that anyone present during the use of the Accelerated Ability immediately knows the source of the character’s Banishing power. The character must state the nature of the target’s Might in the command. If the character omits or incorrectly states the source of the target’s Might, his Banishing attempt fails.''
''The player must make a stress roll of the character’s Presence and Banishing score against the Ease Factor as described below. Multiple creatures may be banished from the designated location; the target Ease Factor does not increase. The amount by which the total exceeds the Ease Factor is the Penetration of the Accelerated Ability.''

===Banishing Total: Stress Die + Presence===


===+ Banishing + Aura===

''If Banishing penetrates, the character banishes any creatures of the realm selected from the designated location for Sun Duration. The character must be within the designated area when the Accelerated Ability is used. If the character does not state a specific location, the default Ease Factor is Near Range, which is defined as the area within 10 paces of the character.''

===Ease Factor Area===

''3 Near''
''6 Structure''
''9 Boundary''
''A successful Banishing attempt expels all creatures of the appropriate realm from the designated area, whether the character is aware of them or not. The only way''
''to avoid Banishing friendly creatures of the same realm as the one targeted is to include the True Name of the target of the banishment. (See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 34.)''
''A banished creature must depart the designated location by the quickest means available to it. The creature may attempt to return to the designated location by succeeding in a Stamina + (Realm) Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12, where the applicable (Realm) Lore is the origin of the character’s Banishing Ability. If the designated location is within an aura that is aligned with the character’s Banishing Ability, the creature’s roll is modified by the Realm Interaction Table on ArM5,''
''page 183. If the creature succeeds, it may enter the designated location, but its Might score is reduced by one-half the character’s Banishing score. If the creature’s Might score would be reduced to zero or lower, the creature may not enter. If the creature leaves the designated location, its Might score returns to normal.''
''While an affected creature is in the designated location, its Might score is reduced and it suffers overwhelming pain and discomfort (and negative modifiers) as described in Weight of a Thousand Hells (ArM5, page 148). This extreme discomfort causes most creatures to develop deep enmity for the character who banished them. Infernal and other creatures of''
''appropriate temperament may develop an obsession with exacting revenge on the character. If a creature is unable to avenge a banishment, it often seeks allies or assistance in punishing the character. Friendly creatures may not go to these lengths for revenge, but few are pleased to suffer the torment of banishment.''
''Although all of the Donatores’s Banishing capabilities are aligned with the Divine, Banishing may be aligned with any realm. A character may use Banishing against creatures aligned with the same realm as the character’s Banishing Ability, but it is difficult to keep an aligned creature out of the designated area. Of course, Divine creatures are immune to the effects of Banishing if they are fulfilling God’s Divine plans. Example: Allessandro has a score of 18 in Banishing and Presence of 2. He is surprised by the ghost of his former master and wants to banish it from the covenant. Allessandro loudly calls upon the powers of nature and all that is magical (his Banishing Ability is aligned with the Magic realm) to expel this Infernal creature from the covenant, which falls under the Structure category and gives him an Ease Factor of 6. The Infernal ghost has a Might of 25. Allessandro rolls a 6, for a total of 26. The covenant is in a Magic aura of 6, which improves his total to 32. Because Allessandro has no suitable Arcane Connection to his master with him, his Penetration is 26 (32 – 6), which forces the creature to leave the covenant immediately. The ghost may attempt to re-enter the covenant by succeeding in a Stamina + Magic Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12, but because Allessandro’s Ability is aligned with Magic and he is in a Magic aura, the Infernal ghost must add 6 to the Ease Factor because of the realm interaction modifier. Had the ghost been of the Magic or Faerie realms, the Ease Factor would have been lowered appropriately. If the ghost succeeds, its Might is reduced by 9 (onehalf Allessandro’s score in Banishing) until the next sunrise or sunset. The ghost flees, giving Allessandro time to find an Arcane Connection to his master and prepare for the final battle.''
''Specialties: Any Realm (Supernatural)''

===Favored Virtues and Flaws===

''Banishing is a required Virtue for the tradition and is the focus of most junior magi. It allows magi fresh from their Gauntlets to combat spirits and ghosts with greater ability than they would oth''
''erwise be able to do with Hermetic magic alone. As the magus matures and his Arts improve, the importance of Banishing lessens. However, even senior magi utilize Banishing as a way to soften a potential target before sending it to its ultimate rest.''
''The Donatores Requietis Aeternae suffer from the Hermetic Flaw Restriction. They cannot cast spells on consecrated ground. This Flaw may come from the inability of Hermetic magic to summon or communicate with a spirit that has received a Christian burial or from the unwillingness of the Donatores to violate the sanctity of holy ground. This causes Donatores several problems. Because the remains of a spirit are an Arcane Connection to it, Donatores are often forced to identify and collect those remains without the assistance of Hermetic magic.''
''Other than the standard Flaws and Virtues for the tradition, the Donatores''
''Requietis Aeternae do not share many magical similarities. There are, however, several Virtues that are more common among the Donatores than other members of the Order. Donatores who provide a great service to a spirit might possess the Ghostly Warder Virtue. Their frequent trips into consecrated graveyards have given many magi the Sense Holiness and Unholiness Virtue. Likewise, because many members of the Donatores Requietis Aeternae either belonged to the priesthood or have frequent contact with it, they may possess True Faith, and some also hold a Relic. Although not common, a few members of the Donatores tradition practice Holy Magic, as described in Realms of Power: The Divine.''
''The frequent meddling of the Donatores in the world of the dead causes many to suffer from the Plagued by Supernatural Entity Flaw. The supernatural entity is often a spirit''

[|
''The people who formed the Donatores Requietis Aeternae were a hodgepodge of village hedge wizards, high-born necromancers, and clergy, including priests, nuns, and monks. Some possessed The Gift, but others had no ability with magic at all before receiving their vision. It is possible that other, non-Christian followers of the Divine have also received the Banishing Virtue, but currently all Donatores are Christian. Although the founders of the Donatores experienced visions from several saints, the three most frequent are described here.''
''Saint Gertrude of Nivelles is the patroness of the recently dead. Popular belief states that the dead travel for three days before reaching the next world. On their first night, they stay under the care of Gertrude and on the second under the Archangel Michael. Gertrude appeared before many Donatores, several of whom were unGifted. Those who experienced her vision often have Premonitions or Visions involving mice and cats. The mice represent lost souls and the cats the Donatores whose task it is to deal with those souls. Magi who received her vision often posses the Virtue Inoffensive to Animals.''
''Saint Odilo, the creator of the Feast of All Soul’s Day while the Abbot at Cluny, is the patron saint of souls in Purgatory. He promoted the “Truce of God,” by which military hostilities in France would cease for religious holidays. Odilo appeared before many Donatores who were in holy orders. Those who received his vision often possess the Virtues Apt Student, Educated, or Good Teacher. They also tend to have the Flaw Soft-Hearted or Noncombatant.''
''Saint Demetrius of Sermium, martyred in the third century for his preaching to Roman soldiers in Thessalonika, modern Croatia, is a patron saint of Crusaders and is often called upon to repel evil spirits. Demetrius appeared before several of the martially inclined Donatores, especially those who had taken the cross. Many of them have the Tough, Reserves of Strength, or Warrior Virtue.''
''Although current apprentices are taught Banishing by their parentes, many receive a vision from a saint during their apprenticeship. The apprentice often then develops a Virtue or Flaw that mirrors some aspect of the saint’s powers or life.''

==Saintly Visitations==


|]
''that was too powerful for the Donator to defeat. Dealing with a never-ending parade of restless dead also leads many Donatores to develop Second Sight. Many also have a Higher Purpose or Compulsion regarding combating or defending themselves from the restless dead. The frequency of nighttime investigation and activity has led many to have the Nocturnal Flaw. Some Donatores also suffer from Visions, which are usually concerned with the wanderings of the restless dead.''

===Preferred Spells===

''For restless dead with Might scores too powerful to defeat unassisted, a Donator often banishes a spirit for a short period to allow time to locate the corporeal remains of the spirit with Tracing the Trail of Death’s Stench from the location of the spirit’s death or the gravesite, both of which are Arcane Connections. Once the remains are located, the Donator is able to use the ghost’s body as a more powerful Arcane Connection, or deal with the menace in other ways. Of course, for the restless dead that are peaceful in nature, Banishing is less useful than investigating the circumstances of the person’s death, talking with her loved ones, and attempting to determine the underlying causes that are prevent''
''ing the spirit from passing on to the next world. Because of the agony Banishing causes, Donatores generally reserve it for creatures of obviously hostile intent.''
''All Donatores learn Penetration and many emphasize the use of low-level spells to maximize their Penetration scores against creatures with Might. Most Donatores also master these spells to allow them to cast multiple copies. Obviously, Demon’s Eternal Oblivion and Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit are two of the more popular spells. Both are very effective against a creature previously weakened by Banishing.''

==The Cult of Orpheus==

''In ancient Thrace there lived a poet and musician beloved of gods and men. He is the root of dozens of myths and hundreds of stories. He was an artist, augur, and Argonaut. Orpheus was a master musician and magician, said by some to have been taught these twin arts by Hermes himself. His followers suggest that this makes him the first user of “Hermetic” magic in history.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Tribunal of Thebes,''
''Transylvanian Tribunal, Roman Tribunal''
''Major Virtue: Sanguine Humor’s''
''Blessing Minor Hermetic Virtue: Orphic Magic''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary''
''Condition (True Feeling)''

==History==

''Cult lore tells that Orpheus founded a society of magic-wielding priests who worshiped Hermes and Dionysus. Dionysus fell out of favor after Orpheus’s death. The society continued to worship Hermes, but also believed Zeus’s raising of Orpheus’s lyre indicated the musician had apotheosized; thus, they became a cult devoted to the worship of both Orpheus and Hermes. In their attempts to become closer to their hero-deity they studied his life, and developed a sort of magic that could connect the caster to anyone with whom he had a strong, personal, emotional tie, such as Orpheus had with Eurydice. In those days, it’s said that these spells were used to commune with Orpheus himself by those who had known him well.''
''After the fall of the cult of Mercury, the Orphic cult absorbed some of their members and incorporated many of their rituals. Mercurian magic was more advanced than theirs, and after a time they adopted it almost fully. Any remaining musical bent was gradually lost. When the cult was found by the Order of Hermes, their magic was inferior to Hermetic magic but easily adapted to it.''
''Among themselves, Orphic magi still use the Greek title of magos (plural magoi), rather than the usual Hermetic “magus.”''

==Culture==

''The Cult of Orpheus is similar to a Mystery Cult, and characters must be Initiated into it. In general, however, the Cult of Orpheus seeks out potential magoi who already possess the Virtue and/or the''

[|
''Magic is not the only way to combat the restless dead. Some ghosts are simply unaware that they are dead and are attempting to complete an important task they failed to finish in life. If a character assists the ghost, it is likely to lay the spirit to rest. Some ghosts wander the earth because they never had a proper burial. Finding their remains and performing the appropriate burial service quiets these spirits. Other ghosts feel an overwhelming guilt for leaving someone behind, or may have a sense of duty to some person. They may remain to protect the person and can only be put to rest if the ward reaches adulthood or demonstrates independence.''
''For the restless, corporeal dead who seek vengeance on the world — sometimes called revenants — the mundane''
''process of quieting them is quite grisly. If the target against whom the revenant seeks vengeance is killed, the creature usually ceases to wander. Some restless dead, however, might seek vengeance against an entire family, town, or other large group of enemies. In these cases, the character must locate the revenant’s tomb, to which the creature must return before dawn. During the day, the character must exhume the revenant, decapitate it, remove its heart, and have its grave blessed with holy water. If these steps are not completed before dusk, the revenant rises and hunts any who disturbed its grave. Other legends require that the corpse be disinterred and incinerated. After its ashes are spread, the revenant does not return.''

==Doing it the Hard Way==


|]
''Flaw that define their capabilities . Some members believe the Cult’s teaching methods are flawed, and that one could learn this magic without taking on the Virtues and Flaws of the Orphics. However, such a method runs counter to the Cult’s philosophies, and there is no record of such an attempt.''
''An Initiate makes oaths and performs rituals that cement his place in the Cult forever. Cult members are asked to do varied things, based on visions received during initiation. Common requirements include eschewing the opposite sex, scourging the flesh, and eating no meat. No two Orphic magoi are required to follow the same taboos, and no follower of Orpheus is ever asked to do something that would compromise the connections that power his magic. Common to each Initiation, however, is the insistence that information be hidden from outsiders.''
''Orphic magoi must conceal the Cult’s deep personal connections, as they fear that they would be accused of violating the proscription in the Oath of Hermes against interfering with mundanes. This fear may be unfounded, but the Cult exists on the fringe of Hermetic society, and is unwilling to take that risk.''
''Orphics also hide the Cult’s belief in the legend of Orpheus, and that he attempted to restore life to the dead. Many Christians, magus and mundane, would consider such a thing blasphemous, and the Cult could be tainted by association, let alone by rumors that they themselves contact the Underworld.''

==Characters==

''Orphic cultists use Hermetic magic, but they incorporate some of their preHermetic knowledge to expand their abilities. Orphic magoi begin with the Major General Virtue Sanguine Humour’s Blessing, the Minor Hermetic Virtue Orphic Magic, and the Flaw Restriction (True Feeling). An Orphic magos is so connected to certain others that it colors everything he does.''
''The Major Hermetic Virtue Mercurian Magic is appropriate to Orphic magoi. Many also have the Minor Supernatural''
''Virtue Enchanting Music, and some learn the Ability itself after their apprenticeship; the difficulty is great, but these magoi feel that to approach Orpheus is worth the effort.''

===Major General Virtue, Sanguine Humor’s Blessing===

''Of the four humors of Hippocrates, blood is said to govern passion and heat. A''

[|
''Orpheus was the finest composer the world has ever known, with music capable of charming the very rocks and trees themselves, and while he was playing the beasts would harm neither him nor one another, merely lying in adoration of his beautiful melodies. His charms won him the affection of a woman, Eurydice, whom he adored with a fierce love, great and unbounded. Tragically, she was lost to him soon after their wedding; she was seen by the god Aristaeus, who desired her beauty. He advanced on her, and she fled, but stepped upon a viper in the grass. She died soon after, but Orpheus could not bear her loss.''
''Orpheus traveled the breadth of the world in his grief, playing bittersweet tunes on his divine lyre that drew tears from all who heard them. Following advice thus coaxed from sympathetic spirits and gods he traveled down a cave and found himself in the Greek Underworld. There he met Hades and''
''Persephone, its king and queen, and played for them a song so sad, desperate, and haunting that they agreed to allow his love to leave following him, provided he trusted enough to go without turning back to see if she was there. Perhaps Orpheus’s resolve failed him, or perhaps the gods are merely fickle, but regardless of the reason, it was near the surface that he glanced back to be greeted with the sight of his beloved being borne away, back into the depths of the Underworld.''
''Orpheus lost his sanity after this, and wandered the world a second time, and though now in a fit of madness his music was as beautiful as ever. His charms, though, could not protect him from the Maenads, women devoted to Dionysus, who tore him limb from limb in one of their wild rampages through the woods. His head is said to have continued to sing beautifully as it floated down the river and into the sea; his lyre was set among the stars by Zeus himself.''

==The Orpheus Legend==

''It is rumored within the cult, and without, that their leaders have access to a ritual that follows Orpheus’s path into the Underworld. Orpheus’s original trek may have left traces that later magoi could follow, allowing them to restore their own beloved (or despised) to the living world.''
''If this ritual existed, it would function like the rituals of Fenicil (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 76), with an Ease Factor of 78, Range Adelphixis, Duration Momentary, and Target Individual; neither the Cult of Orpheus nor House Guernicus knows that the other group holds such knowledge. For those without True Lineages, this is a great ritual which requires the expenditure of dozens of pawns of raw vis and the coordination of''
''several magi at once, all of whom must know the spell Wizard’s Communion. During the casting, the ritual leader is drawn into a realm that appears to be the Greek Underworld, where he is sorely tested by Hades himself to demonstrate worthiness before the king will release the soul.''
''Even if the spell is successfully cast, and Hades’s tests are passed, there is no guarantee that the ritual is capable of what is purported. Under the best of circumstances, the ritual will not work on anyone buried on holy ground, and certainly not on anyone directly ascended to Heaven. Even so, the individual who returns may well be simply a demon preying on the desires of the magos, and Hermetic magic would be unable to discern this.''

==The Path of Orpheus==


|]
''character with this Virtue has strong connections to others who support him, and he can draw on these bonds to give insight to specific tasks.''
''A character with this Virtue receives a bonus to certain rolls. This is based on his Story Flaw, if appropriate; however, the roll in question does not need to involve the Flaw directly. The Flaw must indicate a True Feeling, and this determination is left up to the storyguide or troupe, but some examples are given below. The bonus is +1 to Ability rolls for Minor Story Flaws and +3 for Major Story Flaws; Hermetic magi with this Virtue, including Orphic magoi, gain a +3 bonus to appropriate spellcasting rolls for Minor Flaws and a +5 bonus for Major ones. Note that this is a General Virtue, and thus available to those outside of the Cult of Orpheus.''
''If the character ever loses the Story Flaw in question, through in-game resolution, this Virtue ceases to provide any benefit until the character gains another such Flaw. If a character has two appropriate Flaws for any reason, only the first one gained affects this Virtue; note, however,''
''that under normal circumstances a character may only begin play with one Story Flaw.''
''Some appropriate Flaws and their corresponding bonuses appear below. Other Flaws may be appropriate, as determined by your troupe or storyguide.''

===Flaw Bonus===

''Dependent Rolls to support or protect''
''Enemies Rolls to attack or defend''
''True Love (NPC) Rolls to impress or persuade''
''Animal/Magical Animal Companion''
''Rolls involving the natural world''
''Close Family Ties Rolls to empathize with or understand another person''
''Mentor Rolls to recall or comprehend information''
''For example, a character with the Story Flaw Enemies receives a +3 bonus to any mundane roll that involves attack or defense, or a +5 bonus to such Hermetic''
''spells, regardless of whether the target of the roll is an Enemy as defined by the Flaw. A character with Close Family Ties receives a bonus to rolls to comprehend other people, regardless of whether they are family.''

===Minor Hermetic Virtue: Orphic Magic===

''Orphic magoi gain access to the additional Range Adelphixis. Spells with this Range may target anyone connected to the magos via a Story Flaw that indicates emotion, such as True Love (NPC) or Close Family Ties. At the storyguide’s discretion, some Virtues may allow the use of Adelphixis as well — for example, True Love (PC). This range is equivalent to Arcane Connection for determining spell level. In essence, the magos is using himself as the Arcane Connection required for the spell.''

===Major Hermetic Flaw: Restriction (True Feeling)===

''The magic of the Cult of Orpheus ties into feelings for others such that, should those dissolve, the magos is unable to use''

[|
''While there may be one or more Orphic magoi in your troupe, the Cult can be easily involved in your stories even if no PC is a member. Orphics can be either antagonists or allies of the PCs, depending on your needs.''
''The Path of Orpheus can serve as the centerpiece to a storyline about dead who return from the grave. The Orphics might either serve to help a PC restore a beloved NPC to life, or as a conduit — witting or unwitting — for demonic influence to enter Mythic Europe.''
''The Cult of Orpheus is also aware of the Seirenes (see Seirenes in Your Saga, below), and this tradition is the source of speculation among Cult members. The groups distrust one another, but they haven’t come into open conflict. Orphic magoi might attempt to learn the Seirenes’ magic, or, as their founder did, learn to''
''counter it with music of their own. Even if this does not happen, it would not take much to convince one group to move against the other, given their mutual legendry.''
''Some Orphic magoi also consider the loss of their founder’s own magical music unfortunate. An Orphic magos might well decide to make it his life’s work to rebuild such abilities.''
''The Cult of Orpheus is aware of the claim of House Tremere to have built their domus magna over Orpheus’s portal into Hades, but most consider it a laughable pretense. Orphic teachings indicate that Orpheus did not use any physical gateway, but rather that his grief, his music, and his magic carried him directly there, and that Orpheus’s own mind interpreted what was happening as a physical trek.''

==The Cult of Orpheus in Your Saga==


|]
''magic. Note that the death of other party does not necessarily invalidate the feeling; in the case of Orpheus, he retained his True Love long after Eurydice had died. However, if the character at any time has no Virtue or Flaw representing a strong, emotional connection to another, he loses access to his magic until another such feeling is stirred. In general, Orphic magoi have a Flaw appropriate to Sanguine Humor’s Blessing, which fulfills this condition as well. However, this Flaw is broader than Sanguine Humor’s Blessing, and many Virtues are appropriate, e.g., True Love (NPC) or True Faith.''

===Orphic Spells===

''Below is a short list of spells using the Adelphixis Range. Such spells are rarely passed from parens to apprentice in the normal Hermetic manner, as each Orphic magos has his own reasons for joining the Cult. Few interested in A Father’s Concern would ever consider casting The End of Hatred, for example.''

===a Father’s Concern===

''InCo 40 R: Adelphixis, D: Mom, T: Group Created by Anatol, a magos formerly of House Jerbiton, this spell was used by him to check periodically on his six daughters. He had left them behind to begin an apprenticeship late in life, and when he had completed his studies they’d become married adults and moved away; he couldn’t locate them by mundane means.''
''This spell gives a brief insight into the targets’ physical condition. It applies to anyone to whom the Adelphixis Range applies for the magos, but an easier version of the spell would be more useful to those who don’t bear such bonds to multiple people.''
''(Base 10, +4 Adelphixis, +2 Group)''

===The End of Hatred===

''PeCo 50 R: Adelphixis, D: Mom, T: Ind Used only once during the Cult’s association with the Order of Hermes, this spell instantly slays its target. It requires the caster to have a great rivalry with the target that drowns out all other thought;''
''in game terms, the caster must have the Enemies Flaw relating to the target.''
''When the inventor used it to slay his mundane rival, he was discovered by the Cult after a Quaesitor began investigating the death. The Quaesitor was able to determine that magic was involved, but had been unable to determine the caster. While the investigator was fooled, the Cult was not, and the magos who cast the spell was himself destroyed in an Orphic ritual to keep the Cult’s secrets safe.''
''(Base 30, +4 Adelphixis)''

===The Private Speech of Eros and Psyche===

''In(Cr)Me 60 R: Adelphixis, D: Year, T: Ind, Ritual For one year after this spell is cast, the magos may, at will, speak mentally with the target, and vice versa. This communication is not impeded by distance, and may not be revoked by either party without somehow canceling the spell.''
''This spell was developed by a magos who wanted to hear his True Love’s voice at all times, and is generally used for such purposes. However, at least once in the history of the Cult, it was used to deliver a year’s worth of threats to an enemy.''
''(Base 15, +4 Adelphixis, +4 Year, +1 Creo to send words)''
''The Pharmacopoeians''
''The Pharmacopoeians comprise a tradition of magi who can trace their ancient lineage back to Crateuas: author of the first pharmacopoeia, illustrator of the first herbal, and the original Root-Cutter. Their magic relies heavily on the curative magic in herbs and plants, which makes them some of the Order’s best healers.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: The Pharmacopoeians are found in all''
''Tribunals.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Mythic''
''Herbalism Minor Hermetic Virtue: Root-Cutter''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Deficient''
''Technique (Perdo) Miscellaneous: All Root-Cutters have the Virtue Minor Magical Focus (Healing) and one of the following Flaws:''
''Soft-Hearted, Noncombatant, or Vow''
''(Pacifism).''

==History==

''Crateuas is known as the greatest herbalist of antiquity. He possessed an incredible knowledge of the inherent magical powers of plants, animals, and minerals that could be combined to create powerful cures for many ailments. Crateuas recorded his knowledge in the first herbal. He illustrated the herbal extensively with paintings and detailed diagrams of the most powerful plants. He cataloged their properties in a set of five massive tomes. Although his herbal has been lost to the rest of the world, Crateuas passed his knowledge down to his students.''
''As a successful and long-time enemy of Rome, Mithridates VI, king of Pontus, was constantly worried about assassination plots. Mithridates sought out Crateuas to serve as his court physician because of his fame as an herbalist. Crateuas gladly accepted the prestigious position and took extraordinary measures to protect the king. He employed only the most rare and expensive ingredients, and spent countless hours preparing his concoctions — to the detriment of his other patients.''
''Crateuas’s potions worked better than Mithridates could have imagined. When Mithridates’s armies were finally defeated and the forces of Rome surrounded him, he attempted to take his own life to avoid capture. The king drank poison, but was only weakened. He fell upon his own sword, but did not die. Mithridates could not evade capture and died eventually, but Crateuas’s potions allowed him to withstand weeks of agonizing torture by the Romans. After the king’s death, Crateuas realized that his powers had been wasted. His prodigious efforts to protect Mithridates could have provided comfort to hundreds of common citizens.''

==Culture==

''Crateuas’s lesson was passed on to his pupils. The Pharmacopoeians, com''
''monly referred to as “Root-Cutters,” have a strong sense of responsibility for healing the masses. As a corollary of this responsibility, Pharmacopoeians also feel a duty to train healers. They readily teach Profession''
''Apothecary, Chirurgy, and Medicine to anyone seeking the knowledge. Members of the tradition are more selective in teaching Mythic Herbalism. In general, the knowledge is only passed to an apprentice, but any healer who shows dedication to helping others may be trained. Of course, those trained by the Pharmacopoeians are not as selective, and Mythic Herbalism is practiced by innumerable individuals who have no knowledge of the Root-Cutters’ traditions or even their existence.''
''While searching for an apprentice, a Pharmacopoeian is concerned foremost with the apprentice’s temperament. The Root-Cutter Virtue is passed only to students who are willing to completely dedicate themselves to preserving life. This is a difficult path for many to follow, especially when one possesses the power of a Hermetic magus. To pass the Gauntlet, the apprentice is sent into the world, ostensibly to test his healing skills, but during this journey the master secretly provokes confrontational situations to judge the student’s dedication to pacifism. An apprentice only succeeds if he shows a true willingness to protect others while avoiding violence. Upon passing the Gauntlet, the magus is taught the final secrets of the Root-Cutter Virtue. If he fails, the tradition rejects him.''
''When the Pharmacopoeians were presented with the ultimatum to join the Order or fight it, they reluctantly accepted after the followers of Criamon convinced them that it was possible to follow a path of non-violence within the Order. The Pharmacopoeian dedication to healing and avoidance of power has meant that they tend to play a small role in Hermetic politics. When they do participate, it is frequently only to cast their votes against any proposal by Houses Flambeau, Tremere, or Tytalus, whom the Pharmacopoeians regard as little more than bloodthirsty animals, or to throw their support behind House Criamon, with whom they maintain friendly relations.''

==Characters==

''The Pharmacopoeians practice a naturalistic form of magic. It is aided by their in-depth knowledge of the natural magic''

[|
''Although most believe that Crateuas’s catalog of herbs and their powers has been lost forever, there are occasional rumors of copies surfacing. Crateuas’s herbal is written in ancient Greek and is a summa for Profession Apothecary  and Medicine (quality 14, level 5), and Mythic Herbalism (quality 9, level 10). Some believe that Crateuas hid a copy of his herbal in a temple dedicated to Aesculapius, the Greek god of healing.''
''The Greeks founded temples dedicated to Aesculapius across the Grecian peninsula and Asia Minor. The temples were usually located near a mineral spring and were often filled with art and treasure from grateful patients.''
''They also tended to have nurseries for breeding the snakes that symbolized Aesculapius’s powers and were used extensively in healing ceremonies.''
''Pharmacopoeians are keenly interested in recovering Crateuas’s herbal and preventing it from falling into the hands of others. They believe that a dedicated researcher could uncover the secrets of the Root-Cutter Virtue with access to the text. It is left to the storyguide’s discretion whether these fears are well founded, but if they are true, each volume of the herbal provides a source of Insight to anyone attempting to make a Breakthrough to replicate the Root-Cutter Virtue. (See Ancient Magic, page 7 for the applicable rules).''

==The Herbal of Crateuas==


|]
''in plants, animals, and minerals. The RootCutter and Mythic Herbalism Virtues reflect this knowledge. The intense training that Pharmacopoeians undergo provides them with a Minor Magical Focus (Healing). Because of their dependence on the natural cycles of life and their dedication to preserving it, all Pharmacopoeians have the Flaw Deficient Technique (Perdo) and one of the following Flaws: Soft-Hearted, Noncombatant, or Vow (Pacifism).''
''For obvious reasons, Pharmacopoeians tend to be specialists in the Arts of Creo and Corpus. Many possess Puissant Creo, Corpus, or Mythic Herbalism, or Affinity with Creo, Corpus, or Mythic Herbalism. Cyclic Magic (positive) tied to the seasons and Purifying Touch are also common Virtues among the Root-Cutters.''
''All members of the tradition possess some skill in Medicine, Chirurgy, or Profession Apothecary. Many Pharmacopoeians also have some ability in Craft Drawing and Area Lore for various woodlands where herbs grow, which they''
''use to continue the tradition of cataloging and illustrating plants and their medicinal properties. Unlike many apprentices, a Pharmacopoeian often spends more time maintaining his master’s herb garden or collecting and recording herbs than he spends in his master’s laboratory.''

===Profession Apothecary===

''This Ability allows the character to identify, cultivate, and prepare common herbs, plants, and other ingredients for use in medicinal remedies. Any character without access to proper medicinal supplies makes all Medicine rolls at a penalty of –3 and the Recovery Bonus for his patients is also reduced by 3. (It should be assumed that under normal circumstances all characters have access to medicinal remedies, unless the storyguide decides otherwise.) A skilled apothecary reduces or eliminates this penalty. A medicus with access to remedies prepared by an apothecary with a''
''score of 1 suffers only –2 to his Medicine rolls, and an apothecary with a score of 2 reduces the penalty to –1. An apothecary with a score higher than 3 does not improve a medicus’s Ability in Medicine.''
''Rules for acquiring ingredients and creating medicinal remedies or poisons are beyond the scope of this book and will be detailed in Art and Academe.''
''Specialties: finding ingredients, treating diseases, preparing poisons. (General)''

===Major Supernatural Virtue: Mythic Herbalism===

''Mythic Herbalism is a Major Supernatural Virtue that grants a score of 1 in the Mythic Herbalism Ability. Mythic Herbalism permits a character to create unguents and poultices that can heal the wounded, cure the diseased, or assist the''

[|

==Story Seed: Interfering with the Mundanes==

''A disgruntled magus grows tired of the Pharmacopoeians voting against him and his House. He threatens to bring a charge against all of them in the Tribunal for interfering with the mundanes because of the attention their healing brings to the Order. Most Pharmacopoeians are willing to abstain from voting against the magus or to vote with him at Tribunal to avoid any possibility of an adverse decision. However, if the charging magus seeks support for a proposal that would harm innocent people, the Pharmacopoeians might submit to trial instead.''
''If a Pharmacopoeian’s healing draws the attention of a powerful noble, especially one with a dread disease or grievously ill family member, she may be forced to violate the Code. Rejecting the noble is likely to bring his wrath on the Pharmacopoeian’s covenant and possibly the Order. Accepting the offer could lead other nobles to demand the same services, which is one of the original reasons the Code prohibits magi from becoming court wizards.''

===Ease Factor Healing Effects Poisons Physical Bonuses===

''3 Add Mythic Herbalism score to patient’s Stamina roll to resist any disease''
''Ease Factor 6, Sleep Add +2 to all Fatigue rolls''
''6 Prevent all of a patient’s wounds from getting worse for one day''
''Ease Factor 6, Light Wound''
''Ignore Wound Penalties up to Medium Wounds''
''9 Add Mythic Herbalism Score x 2 to Recovery roll''
''Ease Factor 9, Medium Wound''
''Add +3 to Soak''
''12 Add Mythic Herbalism Score x 3 to Recovery roll''
''Ease Factor 9, Heavy Wound''
''Ignore one level of Fatigue''
''15 Add Mythic Herbalism Score x 4 to Recovery roll''
''Ease Factor 9, Incapacitating Wound''
''Add +5 to Soak''
''18 Heal the debilitating aftereffects of a disease, poison, or injury''
''Ease Factor 9, Death Increase one negative physical characteristic to 0''
''21 Resolve a major aging crisis Heal a Medium Wound caused by poison''
''Increase one physical characteristic to +1''
''24 Resolve a terminal aging crisis''
''Heal an Incapacitating Wound caused by poison''
''Increase one physical characteristic to +2''

==Mythic Herbalism Ease Factor Table==


|]
''poisoned. The Ability also allows a character to create especially virulent poisons. Finally, he may create potions that grant temporary bonuses to various physical characteristics. The effects of the concoctions are detailed in the nearby chart.''
''For any creation, the character must spend a number of days equal to one-third the Ease Factor of the intended effect to prepare and brew the necessary ingredients. Anyone with the Ability Profession Apothecary and access to plants growing in a Magic aura may supply the ingredients. (Detailed rules for ingredient collection and cultivation will follow in the forthcoming book, Art and Academe.)''
''The character may create multiple doses of any concoction; the Ease Factor is increased by one for each additional dose. The character must select the total number of doses he wishes to create prior to beginning the brewing process. Large batches are more difficult to create because of instability during the brewing process, but they do not take longer to create than a single dose does. The character does not need access to a full Hermetic laboratory, but may create potions with only a few basic tools and a constant source of heat.''
''At the end of the process, the player must roll the character’s Intelligence + Mythic Herbalism against the target Ease Factor. If the roll fails, the concoction is useless. If the roll is a botch, the resulting concoction may poison the creator or its recipient.''
''After one season, an unused poultice, poison, or potion expires and thereafter lacks all powers. An unguent or poultice grants a bonus to Recovery rolls based on the target Ease Factor selected by the player, and the character’s Mythic Herbalism score. Unless otherwise stated, the curative is effective for one month and must be reapplied if the patient’s wound takes longer to heal. If a character receives the benefit of a poultice and a spell, only the larger Recovery bonus applies.''
''Use the Ease Factors in the table to create an ingested poison. If the poison is a contact poison, increase the Ease Factor by +3.''
''Potions created by Mythic Herbalism that grant physical bonuses last for Sun Duration. The effects of the potions are not cumulative. The bonus to Fatigue rolls may not exceed +2, only one level of''
''Fatigue may be ignored per day, and the bonuses to Soak do not stack.''
''Specialties: healing wounds, creating potions, creating poisons. (Supernatural)''

===Minor Hermetic Virtue: Root-cutter===

''The Root-Cutter Virtue is a Minor, Hermetic Virtue. A character with the RootCutter Virtue is able to collect and prepare magical ingredients from plant, animal, and mineral components that reduce the vis cost of healing Rituals. The magus may reduce the vis cost of a healing Ritual by his score in Mythic Herbalism, but the cost may never be reduced by more than half.''
''Specialties: healing wounds, curing diseases, resolving aging crises. (Hermetic)''

==The Lineage of Pralix==

''This tradition within House Ex Miscellanea has little in common with the other traditions of the House. Rather than propagating their own brand of nonHermetic magic, the Lineage of Pralix instead seeks to preserve hedge traditions by inducting them into the Order. The power they possess allows them to analyze and study magic, which has made them experts on exotic magic. They appear to work tirelessly and selflessly to support and protect House Ex Miscellanea, but never seek any special privileges and honor for themselves. This very altruism (and their adherence to the teachings of Pralix) makes them suspicious in the eyes of many magi.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Tribunals at the fringes of the Order, to maximize the chances of encountering hedge wizards''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Comprehend Magic (described below)''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Minor Magical Focus with Exotic Magic. This''
''focus applies whenever the magus uses Hermetic magic to investigate, change, control or destroy non-Hermetic magic. It only applies to magic, not to the innate''
''supernatural powers of creatures with Might, and only applies to powers derived''
''from the Magic realm. Major Hermetic Flaw: Weak Magic Resistance, against any spellcaster whom''
''the maga has not analyzed using her''
''Comprehend Magic Ability''

==History==

''Soon after the defeat of DamhanAllaidh, Pralix disappeared for the best part of a year. During this time, it is said, she cloistered herself with an ancient wizard who taught her his secrets. Depending upon who is telling it, this wizard was a Priest of Mercury, a druid who never joined House Diedne, or Merlin himself. When Pralix returned to Cad Gadu she sought among her army of wizards a Gifted child to take as an apprentice, to whom she immediately taught the Supernatural Ability that her line still use today, even though she showed no evidence of knowing this magical power before her disappearance. Not long after finding this child she agreed that the Ordo Miscellanea would join the Order of Hermes, and she set about teaching the new House the magic of the Order.''
''Pralix never officially joined the House that she created, and since she had foresworn the Order of Hermes, she remained outside of Hermetic circles until her eventual disappearance. The deal she struck to integrate the Ordo Miscellanea granted her immunity from the Order of Hermes for her lifetime. Nevertheless, she was the founder of a Hermetic lineage who have served the House since its inception, never seeking leadership or fame for itself, but working quietly behind the scenes to ease the adoption of exotic traditions of magic into the Order of Hermes.''

==Culture==

''Pralician magi (who also call themselves Filii Pralicis, the Children of Pralix) are fascinated by exotic magic. Some study''
''it in the hope that its insights can prove useful to the advancement of Hermetic theory, and of all magi outside of House Bonisagus, as a group they are most likely to pursue Original Research (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26). As well as living traditions, Pralicians are interested in magic that has no extant practitioners, and they often pursue rumors and legends of long-dead magicians.''
''As well as this theoretical interest in exotic magic, the Lineage of Pralix are also interested in seeking out new magical traditions and assisting their passage into the Order through House Ex Miscellanea. Such magi hate the idea of a tradition of magic being lost forever, and they are unusually adept at translating exotic magic into its Hermetic equivalents. When a new tradition enters House Ex Miscellanea, the members of this lineage are often instrumental in helping the hedge wizards to train the second generation of pupils, and encouraging the acceptance of Hermetic magic while preserving the original magic.''
''Some suspect the Lineage of Pralix of more sinister motives. They suspect that their true purpose is to rid the world of magic that is not Hermetic, by assimilating any magician who could pose a threat to the Order, and encouraging conformity over time. As evidence of this plot, these suspicious magi offer the fact that the wizards inducted into the Order by this lineage often lose their non-Hermetic powers in return for Hermetic equivalents.''
''Ironically, the Filii Pralicis are also accused of having precisely the opposite motives as well. There are a few magi, most notably Prima Murion of House Bonisagus (see Guardians of the Forests, pages 57–58), who suggest that they are committed to flooding the Order with non-Hermetic magic, weakening the pure Hermetic theory with barbaric magic.''
''This fascination with non-Hermetic magic often requires that Pralicians travel extensively, for there are few non-Hermetic wizards left in the heartlands of the Order. In game terms, the study of hedge magic is covered by the Abilities Organization Lore (for traditions of magic) and Magic Lore (for the actual magic they use).''

===Induction of Hedge Wizards Into the Order===

''When a wizard seeks to join the Order of Hermes, he is usually directed towards a member of the Lineage of Pralix. Only those who possess The Gift are normally considered for membership. Those magi from other Houses who actively seek out hedge wizards (notably House Flambeau) are aware of the tradition, and recognize the service that they perform for the Order. It is not unknown for a Tribunal to reimburse a Pralician maga for the time she spends bringing a hedge wizard under the wing of the Order. During the initial training period, the wizard is accorded''
''all the legal protection of the Code of Hermes afforded apprentices, regardless of his age and ability, and the Pralician maga is considered to be his parens. This apprenticeship is much shorter than a standard Hermetic apprenticeship, typically lasting less than five years. During this apprenticeship, the wizard is taught Magic Theory, the history and customs of the Order, and, if necessary, Latin and Artes Liberales. Unlike a standard Hermetic apprenticeship, these things are taught before the opening of the Arts. The hedge wizard is encouraged to learn Hermetic magic, but it is not a condition of joining the Order. It is important to the Order that the Pralician maga is able to gauge the abilities of the wizard, as well as any potential threat posed by his former tradition. This information is passed back to the Order, usually through House Guernicus or Flambeau.''
''Many hedge wizards who seek out the Order do so to learn Hermetic magic, but it is made clear to the wizard that the process of opening his Arts may well destroy his non-Hermetic powers. Some are not prepared to take the risk, preferring to just accept the protection of the Oath of Hermes and the Parma Magica instead. However, if the wizard still wishes to go ahead with training in Hermetic magic, the Pralician maga attempts to open him to the Arts. The Pralician maga need not have all Arts above 5 for this process; no penalty is applied by the Code of Hermes should a mature wizard acquire Deficiencies in his Hermetic magic due to the difficulties of inducting a mature wizard in the first place. A trained wizard whose Arts are successfully opened almost always suffers at least one Major Hermetic Flaw due to the mismatch between his native tradition and Hermetic magic.''
''If the opening the Arts was successful, then the maga usually offers to spend some time teaching the wizard some basics of the Hermetic Arts, often for a small fee. If the attempt to open the Arts fails, or the wizard does not want to take the risk, then the wizard may still join the Order (in game terms, he does so as a Gifted Companion, see above for more details). Regardless of success or failure, the Pralician always spends at least one season teaching the hedge wizard the Parma Magica, and then presents him to a Quaesitor for the swear''

[|
''Excited by rumors of plentiful vis and exotic magic, a Pralician volunteers to take part in an expedition to claim new territory for the Order, either north into Scandinavia, east into Novgorod and beyond the Caucasus, or south into the desert sands of Africa. The Order has been contacted by a group of exotic wizards who wish to make a treaty with the Order of Hermes. A Pralician is the obvious choice to accompany a diplomatic mission. A Pralician may be employed by a team of hoplites who are hunting''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''down a specific hedge wizard. His knowledge of exotic magic could prove invaluable. The discovery of pre-Hermetic magic causes excitement in the Order, and a Pralician is well placed to comprehend its secrets. Perhaps the limits of Hermetic magic can be pushed or even broken. A new recruit to the Order under the tutelage of a Pralician vanishes one day. While he does not know the Parma Magica, he knows more about the Order than is considered safe. What is worrying is what he will tell his native tradition of the Order.''
''•''
''•''

==Stories Involving the Lineage of Pralix==


|]
''ing of the Hermetic Oath (whereupon he acquires the Social Status Virtue Hermetic Magus).''
''This new member of the Order often does not fit the classic profile of a member of House Ex Miscellanea, usually possessing more than one non-Hermetic Supernatural Ability. However, the apprentices who he trains invariably follow the usual profile, because the master is forced to compromise between Hermetic and non-Hermetic magic as well as propagating his own Hermetic Flaws.''

===Joint Training of Apprentices===

''Those wizards who do not (or cannot) adopt Hermetic magic upon joining the Order are encouraged by the Lineage of Pralix to consider training an apprentice in both the Hermetic and non-Hermetic traditions, and a Pralician maga often volunteers to assist with this process in return for the apprentice’s assistance in the laboratory. She begins by opening the Arts for the Gifted child, but before he is taught any Hermetic magic, he is inducted into the magic of his non-Hermetic parens. A typical arrangement for the rest of the apprenticeship is that for every season the Pralican spends teaching Hermetic magic to her colleague’s apprentice, she gets two seasons of the apprentice’s assistance in the laboratory. At the end of the apprenticeship, the apprentice is not too dissimilar to the average member of House Ex Miscellanea in the Ars Magica Fifth Edition rulebook, although he may be biased towards his non-Hermetic parens and suffer from Minor Hermetic Flaws such as Weak Parens.''

==Characters==

''The Filii Pralicis do not have direct blood descent from Pralix, and yet they refer to themselves as her children, and as bearing her blood. The Lineage of Pralix preserves a non-Hermetic magical Ability that proves exceptionally useful in their chosen role in the Order, the power to acquire insights into hedge traditions through the Ability Comprehend Magic.''

===New Major Supernatural Virtue: Comprehend Magic===

''The character is capable of seeing and understanding the nature of active magics. This is a more comprehensive version of Magic Sensitivity, and can do everything that Virtue can, and more. Further, this Virtue does not penalize Magic Resistance like its lesser cousin. Choosing this Virtue confers the Ability Comprehend Magic 1.''

===New Supernatural Ability: Comprehend Magic*===

''Through scrutiny of an object or a person, the character can analyze the type of magic it possesses, and its relative strength. Generate a Comprehension Total as follows:''

===Comprehension Total: Perception +===


===Comprehend Magic + Stress Die===

''The value of the Comprehension Total should be compared to the appropriate Ease Factor:''

===Source of Magic Ease Factor===

''Magus 12 – magnitude of highest Art''
''Character with Supernatural Virtue''
''15 – Ability score, –3 if he also has The Gift''
''Creature with Might''
''15 – magnitude of Might score''
''Spell or Spell-like Power''
''18 – magnitude of level''
''Supernatural Power''
''18 – number of Might Points spent''
''Enchanted Item 18 – magnitude of strongest power''
''Magic Aura 12 – aura level''
''Vis 9 – number of pawns''
''Supernatural Virtues that do not grant a corresponding Ability are assumed to have an Ability score of 3 if a Minor Virtue, or 5 if a Major Virtue. A successful roll identifies the presence or absence of magic. If the character continues to concentrate for a round, he may also determine the type of magic that is being scrutinized: Hermetic magic, curse magic, and so forth. A second round of''

[|
''This insert summarizes information from pages 106–107 of Ars Magica Fifth Edition.''
''The maga compares her Intellego Vim Lab Total to the level calculated below. A member of the Lineage of Pralix can apply her Magical Focus to this Lab Total. Supernatural Virtues always have a minimum sum of 10 if provided by a Minor Virtue, or 30 if granted by a Major Virtue. That is, Abilities derived from a Minor Virtue are treated as having a score of at least 2, and those derived from a Major Virtue as having a score of at least 6.''

===Level Required for Opening the Arts: 5 X (The Sum of All Supernatural===


===Ability Scores)===


===Minimum Level Per Ability: 10 If the Ability Derives From a Minor Virtue, Or===


===30 If It Derives From a Major Virtue===


===Intellego Vim Lab Total: Effect of Season===

''Less than level: Unable to open the Arts Greater than or equal to level: Arts opened, all Supernatural Abilities lost Greater than or equal to twice level:  Arts opened, some or all Supernatural Abilities converted into Hermetic Virtues''
''If she is able to convert Virtues, the maga may decide which Virtues of her apprentice are converted into Hermetic Virtues, and those not converted are retained. A Major Supernatural Virtue is converted into a Major Hermetic Virtue; a Minor Supernatural Virtue can be converted into a Minor Hermetic Virtue.''

===•===


===•===


===•===


==Opening the Arts of a Hedge Wizard==


|]
''study reveals the approximate function of an ongoing spell, power, or enchanted item (in terms of its corresponding Hermetic Arts), or for a being, the Hermetic Form that corresponds most strongly with its magical ability. If the character is familiar with types of magic other than Hermetic magic, then he can determine the type of magic under that frame of reference instead. A third round of study reveals the approximate magnitude of the magic being observed.''
''Although determining the presence of magic requires but a moment of observation, the character must maintain concentration (ArM5, page 82) to acquire any of the subsequent information. If observing a being with Magic Resistance, this power must penetrate, as usual; but even if the Penetration Total proves to be insufficient, the character is aware of the presence of magic if the Ease Factor was met.''
''After three round of observation, the character has sufficient information to use the insight he has gained to make his magic more effective. Any insight bonus applies only to the specific creature or magic studied; even if an identical creature is encountered later, it must be studied again to get this bonus. The observer may add twice his Comprehend Magic score to the Casting Total of any spontaneous Muto, Perdo, or Rego Vim spell used against the object or creature studied.''
''Additionally, when investigating enchantments (ArM5, page 100) in the''
''laboratory, an observer with Comprehend Magic can multiply his Magic Theory by his score in Comprehend Magic before applying it to the Lab Total. At the option of the storyguide, this Ability might also give an insight into adapting non-Hermetic magic into Magic Theory.''
''Specialities: magical beings, specific type of magic (Supernatural)''

==Other Magical Interests==

''The Lineage of Pralix has a number of spells that are targeted directly at exotic magic. They have developed spells directed at suppressing, altering, and dispelling shapeshifting magic, curse magic, spirit magic, and so forth, which are more effective than general purpose spells such as Wind of Mundane Silence. Their initial encounters with hedge wizards tend to be hostile, and they like to be well prepared against any aggressive actions.''
''Apart from their obvious fascination with exotic magic, the Lineage of Pralix have no defined magical interests, and each member is left to pursue whatever she desires. Her self-imposed duties often see her journeying deep into dangerous territory to face beings of unknown power, so she often knows spells that assist travel and provide protection.''

===New Spells===


===The Heathen Witch Reborn===

''PeVi Gen R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind This spell cancels the effect of any shapechanging spell or Supernatural Ability if (spell level + 10 + stress die [no botch]) beats the level of the shapechanging spell (or the Shapeshifter Ability x 5). It does not affect characters with the Heartbeast Ability. This spell can be used as a template for spells that affect other types of exotic magic.''
''(Base effect, +2 Voice)''

===Quiet the Cursing Tongue===

''ReVi Gen R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind''
''The target of this spell cannot use any curse magic with a level less than or equal to (spell level – 10). If the curse magic is controlled by a Supernatural Ability, then its level is equivalent to (Score x 5). This spell can be used as a template for spells that affect other types of exotic magic.''
''(Base effect, +2 Voice, +2 Sun)''

===New Mastery Special Ability: Unraveling===

''This Mastery special ability may be applied to any Perdo Vim spell designed to weaken or destroy magic. The magus may add three times his Mastery score to the effective level of the Perdo Vim spell when determining whether it can destroy the targeted spell. Thus a 20th level Wind of Mundane Silence cast by a character with this Mastery special ability and a score of 3 can negate the effects of a spell if he can double the spell’s level on (29 + stress die) rather than (20 + stress die).''

===New Mastery Special Ability: Rebuttal===

''This Mastery special ability may be applied to any Muto or Rego Vim spell designed to affect a spell or power used by another being (thus Wizard’s Boost or Maintain the Demanding Spell are not eligible, but Mirror of Opposition [Form] is). The magus may add three times his Mastery score to the effective level of the Vim spell when determining whether or not it can change or control the foreign magic. Thus, a 25th level Quiet the Cursing Tongue accompanied with a Mastery score of 2 prevents the casting of curse magics with an equivalent level of 21, rather than 15.''

[|

==Pralicians and Scrying==

''Using Comprehend Magic against another magus is scrying, and forbidden by the Code of Hermes. However, many Tribunals will not convict a maga of scrying if the only information she obtains is whether a given person is a magus or not, no matter what method of detection she uses. That said, the Comprehend Magic Ability can give a Pralician much more information than that, potentially revealing a magus’s strongest Art, and its approximate power. If a prosecuting magus at Tribunal proves that a Pralician maga obtained more information about him than the bare minimum, then she will be charged with (and likely convicted of) a High Crime.''

==New Spell Guideline==

''Rego Vim General:	 Sustain or suppress a spell of a specific type cast by another with level less than the level + 2 magnitudes of the Vim spell. Examples of specifics types include Hermetic Terram magic and Shamanic spirit control magic.''

|]

==Rustic Magi==

''Perhaps the most obscure tradition of magi Ex Miscellanea is that of the Mechanicals, also known as the Rusticani or “rustic magi.” These are folk magicians who generally eschew interaction with the Order of Hermes and its covenants, and instead live among the common people in villages and other rural communities, whom they consider to be their covenfolk. They have developed a form of magical craft that allows them to build spells and enchanted devices from mundane objects, the effects of which they share freely with their people — but they are disparaged by most other magi for their reclusive and peasant-like ways, and besides respecting the Oath, few of them ever acknowledge that they belong to the Order at all.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Rhine, Provencal Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Craft Magic''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Spell Foci''
''Major Hermetic Flaw: Weak''
''Spontaneous Magic''

==History==

''The mechanical magic that the Rusticani practice appears to descend from a form of Jewish folk magic, exemplified by the Masonic arts used to build the temple of Solomon and the great pillars named Jakin (“he establishes”) and Boaz (“great strength”). These mighty stone cylinders are said to have been hollowed out to hold many of the great treasures of the ancient Hebrews, including the shamir, a magical stone that could be used to cut other stones. In deference to this legend, many of the casting rituals that rustic magi follow are based in folk sayings from the Old Testament, often involving counting generations after David or measuring by the dimensions of the old temple, though no knowledge of Judaism or Hebrew is necessary for learning them.''
''The founder of the tradition, such as it is, is probably the man known as Reismann Ex Miscellanea, a hedge wizard who joined the Order to protect himself and his vis sources against the magi of the Rudiaria covenant in central Germany, and who formally swore the Oath at the Rhine Tribunal of 963. He is believed to have lived as a peregrinator (a magus without a covenant) on the outskirts of the city of Frankfurt, and he wrote a well-known summa on Craft Masonry that also describes a great deal of the symbolism and legendary history associated with his tradition, now located in the great library of Durenmar. Though he was never awarded the rank of master in the Tribunal, he taught two apprentices, and is thought to have perished during the Schism War.''
''Another hedge wizard presumed to belong to this tradition (but who never joined the Order) was an outlaw named Robert Wood who lived in Yorkshire in the late 1100s. According to private records kept by House Mercere and sworn to by Julia of House Jerbiton, the members of Voluntas covenant registered him and his men as a source of Animal and Herbam vis, the result of a bargain made between them on September 8, 1192. When 12 pawns''
''of vis held by Blackthorn covenant were contested by Voluntas at the Stonehenge Tribunal of 1201, the details of this agreement were brought forward to prove their case. All that Julia would say about this Robert was that he was not a magus; that he was an exceptional archer, bowyer, and fletcher with magic in his craft; and that he had a special way with the woods that made finding vis very easy for him.''
''In 1214, a rustic magus named Tres Ex Miscellanea was brought to trial in the Provencal Tribunal for his interference with mundanes. He had declared Wizard’s War against the magi of another covenant in the region, and with more than a hundred armed men he had marched against their tower, completely destroying it and killing most of the inhabitants. The prosecutors argued that Tres had broken the Code when he hired his army, since he had essentially bought their service with enchanted devices, and that he had thereby become significantly and criminally invested in mundane politics of the region. Tres argued that all of the men in his army belonged to his covenant, which had been duly registered at the previous Tribunal, and that he had the right to support his covenfolk with his magic however he wished. The Tribunal eventually decided in his favor, though the presiding Quaesitor also noted disapprovingly that all of these covenfolk had since left his service.''

==Culture==

''There are so few Rusticani in the Order that they have few if any established traditions or hierarchy, and really have only their magic in common — which most of them arrived at independently of one another’s efforts. Their simple lifestyle often brings about a marked interest in common people, and so rustic magi tend to drift away from Hermetic society, usually adopting the roles of cunning men or wise women on the fringes of mundane communities. They usually dress in rough, practical clothing, much like other people of their craft might wear.''
''Since their powers tend to develop among humble folk with little formal education and no knowledge of Hermetic magic,''
''most of them come to the Order much later in life, joining House Ex Miscellanea and learning the Arts, Magic Theory, and the Parma Magica after living for many years as hedge wizards. Their ties to their families, communities, and craft guilds are usually much stronger than their loyalty to other magi. They join the Order for protection from other magi, but primarily consider themselves folk wizards and tend to live as such. While they might belong to a covenant, they seem to prefer to live apart when possible, and are particularly prone to friction when interacting with each other. It is nearly impossible for two Rusticani to work together without a clear master-apprentice relationship. For this reason, new magi typically leave their parentes immediately after passing their Gauntlets, and journeymen taught in the tradition often travel a great distance away from their former masters before settling down in a place of their own.''
''The fruits of their magic are ideally suited for sharing with those who have none, and their simple ways usually make their sodales in other Houses treat them as inferiors and hedge wizards. They do have some qualities in common with Houses Jerbiton, Mercere, and Verditius. However, unlike Jerbiton, they have little interest in beauty, instead admiring the practical nature of their magic; unlike Mercere, they have no interest in maintaining the tradition or structure of the Order of Hermes; and unlike Verditius, the devices they make are merely tools, not masterpieces.''

==Characters==

''The craft magic of the Rusticani is unusual in that it is useless on its own; it requires the character to have some other exceptional quality or means of producing a supernatural effect, since it modifies the way he can perform his magic and allows him to enchant minor items with these powers. There are some Jewish holy men who have a similar ability to enchant devices with their miraculous effects (see Craft Amulets, Realms of Power: The Divine pages 137–138), but otherwise this sort of rustic magic is limited to the followers of this tradition.''

===Major Supernatural Virtue: Craft Magic===

''This Virtue has four applications, each described below. All of these rely upon the character’s skill with a particular craft, represented by a score in the Craft Ability or the Profession Ability, and all of them rely upon the character’s power to produce magical effects through some other means, usually a Supernatural Virtue or the Hermetic Arts. The character does not need a Hermetic laboratory to use these, but since the process involves craft work he does usually require a workshop of some kind.''
''First, the character may forgo any necessary words and gestures or other actions when producing an effect with his powers, without penalty. Instead, he crafts a physical object, which takes the place of the spell and must be brought into range of the spell’s target to cast it. This object takes the normal amount of time to make (see City and Guild, Crafts), and always at least as long as a Ritual spell of the same level would take — generally speaking, the more durable the object, the more time it requires. During this time, the character must avoid distractions and maintain concentration whenever he is working on the object, just as if he was casting a spell, and like casting a spell the character can only work on a single object at a time. If the effect would normally require him to roll a stress die, he must still roll when he casts it to see if he botches, but he does not add the die result to his total. After the casting is finished, the object retains no magical properties — the magic is part of the craft, not the object. Example: A rustic magus who works as a blacksmith wishes to cast a spell on a horse without seeming to perform magic. Instead, he makes a magical horseshoe, working the spell into the metal as he crafts it, and when he places it on the horse, he casts the spell. This takes him about a day to finish, and he must still roll to see if he botches.''
''Second, when crafting a spell, the character may take advantage of the crafted object’s shape and material, giving him a bonus to his effect total, though this bonus cannot exceed his Craft score. This bonus can also include a design or inscription, which is another kind of enchantment bonus that characters with this Virtue can use (see the sidebar, Design and Inscription Bonuses).''
''Example: A woodcarver with both Craft Magic and Dowsing is searching for water, and makes himself a hazel dowsing rod. Hazel has a shape and material bonus of +3 for divination, and so this gives him a +3 bonus to his Dowsing total. He also carves his name into the rod, giving him a +4 design and inscription bonus for “use restricted to the caster.” However, his Craft Woodcarving score is only 6, so the total bonus is limited to +6 instead of +7. All told, his Dowsing total is 11, which means that his dowsing rod will take him at least 20 minutes to make and inscribe.''
''Third, the character may make charged items in the same way as Hermetic magi (see Charged Items, ArM5 pages 96–97), without needing to spend an entire season. Instead, it takes him the standard amount of time to craft a spell, as described above, multiplied by the number of items produced. Use the character’s Casting Total or the result of the Supernatural Ability roll as if it were a Lab Total to determine the effect’s level and the number of charges (so that an exceptional roll might allow the character to enchant a great many more charges than usual). This application of Craft Magic also allows a character with a Supernatural Ability or Virtue that only affects himself to craft items that other characters can use for the same effect, though only if the activity requires the crafted item to perform. If the power does not require a die roll to activate, make an appropriate Craft roll instead, and the base level of the effect is 5. Example: An armor-smith Mechanical has Craft Magic and Puissant Single Weapon. He wants to craft a puissant heater shield, one that when uncovered gives the wielder the benefit of his Puissant Single Weapon Virtue for the rest of the day. This is a level 20 effect (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun). His Dexterity is +4, and his Craft Armor score is 8. He may add 5 for the shield’s “+5 Protection” bonus, and he spends a Confidence Point to give him the final +3 increase. His total is 20, just enough for him to make one shield. This takes him about nine days to finish; if he reduced the effect’s Duration to Diameter, he could make two shields with the same effect, but it would take him longer to finish.''
''Finally, the character may craft objects that already contain raw vis into magical devices with lesser enchantments (see ArM5, page 96, Lesser Enchantments). The vis must be part of the enchanted object, and again, this does not require a season, but rather a crafted effect as above. Use''
''the character’s Casting Total in place of his Lab Total, but if this invests a Supernatural Ability into the device, this result only needs to be greater than or equal to the level of the effect, not twice that value as with spell effects. Also, the level of the invested effect cannot exceed five times the number of pawns of vis in the object. (This differs from Hermetic magic in that magi use less vis, and the vis they use does not have to be part of the object to be enchanted.) Example: A tanner with Enchanting Music and Craft Magic obtains the pelt of a magical beast containing 3 pawns of vis. He fashions this into a large drum, and enchants it with an effect that causes those who hear it to become very afraid. He does not need to play the drum to produce the effect, and instead enchants it while he is making it. His Communication is +2 and his Enchanting Music is 5. His Craft Tanner is at least 2, so he may add +2 for the Drum shape and material bonus (+2 cause fear). He must roll to ensure he does not botch, but if he succeeds, he produces an enchanted instrument that anyone can activate for an Enchanting Music effect with a Casting Total of 9.''
''Magi with this Virtue should be highly sought after by Mystagogues of House''
''Verditius, as the power of Craft Magic complements their House Mysteries exceptionally well. However, the philosophy of their House is fundamentally at odds with the magic of the Rusticani, the former being driven by pride and desire for artistry that the latter group generally finds repugnant. Because of this essential difference in their outlook, should a rustic magus ever try to join House Verditius, he loses his Craft Magic Virtue during his Initiation ceremony (perhaps because of the spell The Embrace of Boethius, as described in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults). No one has ever done this as far as anyone knows, and Verditius magi most likely consider Mechanicals to be cheap impostors, if they have heard anything of them at all.''

===Minor Hermetic Virtue: Spell Foci===

''Rustic magi are particularly good at harnessing the magical properties of physical objects. For this reason, a rustic magus may incorporate a small casting tool called''
''a spell focus into his spells, which allows him to add a bonus to his Casting Total. This is one of the bonuses that such an object typically provides for its shape or material, from the Shape and Material Bonuses table. Only one spell focus may be associated with a spell, and only one of that object’s properties may be harnessed in this way — this is essentially the same bonus that a character with Craft Magic receives when he crafts the object into a spell.''
''The bonus cannot exceed the caster’s score in Magic Theory, or his Craft score when a rustic magus crafts the spell using Craft Magic. In these circumstances, the spell focus must be appropriate to the type of craft practiced by the rustic magus; if he is a carpenter, he must use a certain type of wood to receive the material bonus, or carve it into a particular shape for the shape bonus. Any spell can be designed to include a spell focus by a magus with this Virtue, though once it is incorporated into the spell, it cannot be cast without it, and casting a spell with a spell focus that is not somehow applicable to the spell’s effect provides no bonus at all. For example, a rustic magus might invent a formulaic healing spell to incorporate a ruby, giving him a +3 casting bonus when affecting blood, but from then on he must always have a ruby on hand to cast that spell, even if the effect does not involve blood and so does not receive the casting bonus — the ruby becomes a necessary component of the spell.''
''Rustic magi usually carry many small tools and arcane objects that can be used as spell foci to boost their spontaneous spells in this way, and that are often required for formulaic spells they have invented or learned from other Rusticani. However, these spell foci help them overcome the effect of the Dominion and the difficulties they have with spontaneous magic, and as such they almost always use them whenever they can.''

===Major Hermetic Flaw: Weak Spontaneous Magic===

''Because of their need to craft their spells, the Rusticani associate their power with their own strength of will, tied directly to their hearts and minds. The magic comes naturally to them, like breathing or work''

[|
''Characters with the Craft Magic Virtue can add designs and inscriptions to their crafted effects, giving them a type of enchantment bonus in addition to those for shape and material. Magi who have this Virtue may also incorporate design and inscription bonuses into other objects they make in the lab, such as invested devices, longevity rituals, or talismans. Note that the total bonus gained from shape, material, design, and inscription is still limited to the magus’s Magic Theory score (or an applicable Craft score). Portraits: Portraits usually depict a famous ruler, saint, or person, and the character may gain an additional +1 bonus if the figure pictured is particularly recognizable as great, or is particularly appropriate to the effect. Bonuses: +2 authority, +2 affect subject, +2 affect saint’s patronage, +1 protection Writing: For a writing bonus, the inscription must spell out what the caster wishes the effect to achieve, perhaps calling upon mystic forces or specific''
''entities. An additional +1 is added if the writing names the target or the caster. Bonuses: +3 use restricted to a list of people, +1 control, +1 affect wearer''
''Seal or Symbol: The item receives a bonus if it includes an official seal or symbol. This might be for a particular craft guild, a Hermetic House, an individual’s family, or even the Order. It could also be used to represent people from a specific kingdom or religion. If the symbol is obviously very old, is recognizable, or comes from a distant and exotic location, the item gets an additional +1 bonus. Bonuses: +3 use restricted to members, +1 authority, +1 secrecy''
''Image: A design can incorporate an image of any shape found on the Shape and Material Bonuses table. This gives a design bonus of half the bonus that shape would usually contribute, rounded down. For example, an item depicting a bell (+5 warning) would add a +2 design bonus to a warning effect in the device. Bonus: + (half the image’s shape bonus)''

==Design and Inscription Bonuses==


|]
''ing, and they cannot exert themselves to make it more potent. Thus, they cannot fatigue themselves when using spontaneous magic, and so they all have the Weak Spontaneous Magic Flaw. This makes them much more dependent upon formulaic spells and advance preparation than other magi, and so when they do perform magic spontaneously, it is typically done in their laboratory or workshop, producing a charged item that they may take with them or give to another. This still requires that they divide their Casting Score by 5 to determine their Casting Total, unless it is done as a seasonal laboratory activity, in which case they may use their full Lab Total as normal.''

==Hermetic Sahirs==

''According to the Qur’an, sihr (magic) was taught to mankind by two fallen angels named Harut and Marut, to tempt them away from the straight path of Islam. Those they taught passed the knowledge on through successive generations. In some cases the knowledge became corrupted under the influence of outsiders, and in other cases it was forgotten, leaving only snippets of information. However, there is one tradition who claim to practice the magic in its pure form. These wizards are the sahirs (feminine sahira). Legends among Hermetic magi talk of an Order of Suleiman (Solomon), an organization of Islamic magi who are rivals in power to the Order. What the aims of this order are, and whether it actually exists, is a matter of great debate, particularly in the southern Tribunals of the Order.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunals: Iberia, almost exclusively. The Hermetic Sahirs are uncommon in the Levant, where their''
''non-Hermetic cousins are still to be found; the Almohads of Iberia practice a variant of Islam that is not acceptable to the ‘Abbasids who control the Levant (See Realms of Power: The Divine, Chapter 5:''
''Mythic Islam for more information). Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Sihr (an''
''Accelerated Ability , described below)''
''Minor Hermetic Virtue: Minor Magical''
''Focus (jinn). This focus applies to only jinn, not to other spiritual creatures of the''
''Magic, Faerie, and Infernal realms. Major Hermetic Flaw: Twilight Prone. The fact that they marshal powerful magic''
''to force spirits to appear means that they''
''are more likely to succumb to Twilight.''

==History==

''In the Umayyad Emirate of the Iberian Peninsula, the sahirs who had caused the death of Flambeau’s pater were persecuted by that Founder under his mistaken belief that they were diabolists. His followers continued the witch-hunt in revenge for Flambeau’s death, which may not actually have been the fault of the sahirs. When the Iberian sahirs discovered that it was possible to join the Order through House Ex Miscellanea, they saw an opportunity to protect themselves from their aggressors, and formally joined the Order in 925 AD. Upon hearing of the inclusion in the Order of their hated enemy, House Flambeau was incensed. They promised a campaign of Wizard’s Wars until the last of these infidels had been exterminated. Nevertheless, the Iberian sahirs were few in number, and were able to hide deep in the Umayyid Emirate (and its successor, the Almohad Caliphate of Cordoba) until the fury of House Flambeau had abated somewhat.''
''Although largely forgotten by the Order, these magi still exist, and are still persecuted (within the bounds of the Code) by the Flambeau who reside in the Tribunal of Iberia. The Hermetic Sahirs have a hope that one day they will be able to broker an accord between the Order of Hermes and their native tradition, and perhaps heal the rift between Christian and Muslim, at least within the Order.''

==Culture==

''This tradition is firmly rooted in the southern half of the Iberian peninsula, and is only rarely found outside of these lands. Ancient pacts made by the pre-Hermetic ancestors of the sahirs allow them to summon the spirits of natural features — called the jinn — which inhabit the lands occupied by the Muslims, from Cordoba to North Africa, Egypt, and the Holy Land. Sahirs who stray beyond these lands can still exercise their unique magic to summon spirits, but the genii loci who answer such summons in Christian lands are foreign to the sahirs, and the magus finds it harder to make pacts with them. All Hermetic sahirs are at least nominally Muslims, which does not win them very many friends within the Order of Hermes, particularly among the Flambeau who still pursue a centuriesold feud with the sahirs. Naturally, sahirs''
''form covenants with other magi who have accepted Mohammed as the Prophet. Sahirs have a strong unity as a tradition due to their common enemy, and often assist each other in times of need. However, because of their demand for limited resources (the jinn themselves and the vis needed to bargain with them), they do not often live in close proximity to each other.''
''A sahir often develops a good relationship with those jinn who occupy the landscape around his home, and powerful jinn are often treated as companions, friends, or even family. Weaker jinn are given the respect accorded to a valuable servant or grog. It is a foolish sahir indeed who treats a jinni harshly if there is any possibility that he might wish to call upon its services again, for a surly jinni might twist the intent of his master’s commands, and once freed, may plot against him in revenge.''
''The jinn bound into the service of a sahir typically follow him around in spiritual form, although they may be capable of assuming human or animal form as well. The process of summoning a jinni is a complex and lengthy affair, and can be expensive in terms of vis, and yet the spirits sahirs summon can remain with them for seasons, and may be summoned repeatedly over the course of a sahir’s life. With sufficient forward planning, a sahir can prove to be a mighty foe indeed, but he should not neglect his Hermetic training for those occasions where he is caught without his jinn attendants.''
''Often, a sahir has to accept a duty to perform on behalf of the jinni to acquire its services (see below for more details), and thus is bound to pursue this duty for the duration of the service. The storyguide should ensure that at least one encounter occurs as a result of this duty. Failure to perform the duty ends the pact, and makes an enemy of the jinni, resulting in the temporary acquisition of the Supernatural Nuisance or Plagued by Jinni Flaws.''
''Most of the jinn with whom Hermetic Sahirs deal are aligned to the Magic realm. Some practitioners of this magic specialize in Faerie jinn. However, most of these jinni profess to follow Islam, and it is forbidden by Islam for a Muslim to enslave another. More worrying is that some spirits who appear to be jinn are actually demons, although fortunately for sahirs, Infernal''
''jinn are often bloodthirsty, brutal creatures who are easily identified as such.''

===Relationship With the Non-hermetic Sahirs===

''The Hermetic sahirs have very little contact with their non-Hermetic tradition. Nearly 300 years have passed since the Iberian sahirs sought the protection of the Order, and finding a non-Hermetic sahir in Iberia in the current day is a rare event. It is believed that the non-Hermetic sahirs are members of an association of Muslim magi similar to the Order of Hermes, but that this putative “Order of Suleiman” has a much closer relationship with the mundane rulers of the Levant.''
''The non-Hermetic sahirs have much greater control over the jinn. Rather than relying on bargains to obtain favors, the non-Hermetic sahirs can compel service from the jinn if needed. Jinn-given powers claimed for the non-Hermetic sahirs include immortality, healing, instant transportation over far distances, spying, shapeshifting, and even Magic Resistance. The Hermetic sahirs desire knowledge of these magics, but every attempt to make contact with their Levantine brethren has been met with hostility.''

==Characters==

''All Hermetic sahirs are Muslim, in name if nothing else. More information about Islam, and Virtues appropriate to Muslim characters, can be found in Realms of Power: The Divine. If the saga is set outside of Islamic Iberia, then the Judged Unfairly Flaw is highly recommended, to represent the prejudice that other magi hold against Muslims (the same effect is present in mundanes, but it pales in comparison to the negative effects of The Gift). A sahir character is also likely to have the Feud Flaw, representing the enmity of House Flambeau for his lineage; this is particularly true for sagas set in Iberia, where the hatred still runs deep.''
''Certain Virtues prove very useful to Hermetic sahirs, particularly Second Sight; in addition, more than a few are Elementalists, and Student of (Realm) is''
''very common, as is Puissant Bargain or Affinity with Bargain. Botched dealings with jinn during apprenticeship might cause Supernatural Nuisance, Plagued by Supernatural Entity, or a Malediction (Greater or Lesser). Occasionally, a jinni''

[|

==The Jinn==

''When God made the world, he made three groups of being endowed with intelligence. The angels he made from light, the jinn were made from raw elemental matter (called “the smokeless fire,” or aether), and mankind was formed from clay. A jinni (masculine singular, the feminine form is jinniyya) is a spiritual reflection of man; like him they are capable of both salvation and damnation. Some jinn display (or at least feign) a lack of interest in mankind; this kind shows no inclination towards aping human behavior, and are usually pagan. Such jinn draw their power from the Magic realm. Other jinn seem incapable of preventing themselves from meddling in the lives of mortals. They live in close proximity to them, and often profess their desire for salvation by adopting human religion, usually Islam. This group is akin to Arabic faeries. There is a third type, those jinn who seem bent upon the destruction of mankind, known to the rest of the world as demons.''
''Jinn are a variety of genii loci (the spirits of a place), and as such they possess both a spiritual form and a material form made of elemental matter. The spiritual form inhabits a landscape feature, such as a sand dune, a boulder, or a pool of water. The jinni of a mountain is likely to have a higher Might than that of a boulder; typically Mights range from 5–40.The physical form is basically human, but has a size appropriate to the physical feature, and is usually composed of the same material as the abode. If this form is slain, the spirit can reform it after it has regenerated the Might points spent to create it; the jinni is very likely to exact vengeance on its slayer. Jinn need not eat or drink and do not age. They all possess the Ways of the Land and Second Sight Virtues.''

|]
''might decide to accompany a sahir of its own free will, granting a variant of the Faerie Friend Flaw (although the jinni may have Magic rather than Faerie Might).''

===Major Supernatural Virtue: Sihr===

''Sihr is used to summon a jinni, and provide mystic power to the bargain that places the jinni in the service of the sahir. This Virtue confers the Supernatural Accelerated Ability of Sihr, which begins at a score of 1.''
''Discerning Jinn: Before a jinni can be summoned, it is wise for the sahir to study it to determine its relative power. If the sahir has the Second Sight Virtue, or a spell that allows him to see spirits (see House Tytalus, Magic of the Titanoi), then he can directly observe the jinni in its native habitat, and it takes just a single round to make the necessary assessment. Without magical help, the sahir must use his knowledge of the local area to gather sufficient information about the spirit who dwells there; make an Intelligence + Area Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to discover the center of its power, the form that the jinni takes, and its likely powers. It takes about an hour to make this assessment. Once this preliminary research has been performed, the sahir can attempt to discern the jinni’s approximate Might, based on its appearance (if seen), its abode, and the sahir’s own knowledge. He must first decide whether the jinn is Faerie, Magic, or Infernal (based on its behavior and attitude; only experience can help him here), and make an Intelligence roll modified by the appropriate Realm Lore. Success reveals the magnitude of the jinni’s Might. A failure indicates the sahir is unable to guess the Might of the jinni, thus summoning it would be dangerous. On a botch, the magnitude discerned should be determined by the roll of a simple die. The decision as to which Realm Lore to use is vital; if the player guesses wrongly, then this becomes a straight Intelligence roll. However, since the player has no experience with jinn, the storyguide should make the distinction between different types of jinn clear.''

===Discern Might: Intelligence + Realm===


===Lore + Stress Die Vs. Ease Factor 9===

''Summoning Jinn: Once discerned, the sahir may summon the jinni and bind it into service. This summons must take''
''place in the physical presence of the jinni or at its home; the latter is most common because it provides an Arcane Connection''

[|
''Magic Might: 15 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int –1, Per +2, Pre +2,''
''Com 0, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Way of the Dunes;''
''Second Sight, Skinchanger; Avaricious Personality Traits: Greedy +5, Brave +3,''
''Proud +2 Combat: Great sword: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense''
''+6, Damage +12 Soak: +6 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14),''
''–5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Arabic 4 (negotiation), Athletics''
''3 (leaping), Great Weapon 3 (great sword), Penetration 4 (heat), Second Sight 4 (jinni) Powers: Crafter of Fire, 1–3 points, Init 0, Ignem:''
''duplicates any non-Ritual Creo Ignem or Muto Ignem spell less than or equal to 15th level at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the effect. Incorporeal, 0 points, Init Constant, Mentem:''
''Wahhab is naturally both invisible and intangible, and cannot be influenced by the physical world. Magic may only directly target him if the caster can sense his existence. In this form he has no physical statistics or combat scores. Without taking a corporeal form, Wahhab’s physical characteristics are only used when dealing with other incorporeal creatures. Donning the Corporeal Veil, 2 points, Init +1,''
''Corpus: Wahhab can form the physical body described under Appearance to house his spiritual form; when doing so he acquires the physical characteristics, size, combat statistics, and Wound levels listed above. His arms and armor are also created with this power. He cannot become fatigued. This body lasts until he''
''decides he no longer needs it. Killing the body does not kill Wahhab. Presence, 0 points, constant, Mentem:''
''Wahhab is aware of everything that goes on within his haunt. This power needs to Penetrate to perceive beings with a Magic Resistance. Vis: 1 pawn of Ignem vis can be collected''
''every year from his haunt, in the form of a lambent flame which appears on the cracked altar. If slain in physical form, his body will yield 3 pawns of Ignem vis. Appearance: Wahhab appears as a giant''
''muscled man with coppery red skin and black hair. He carries an immense curved sword and wears an armored shirt (partial scale armor), every one of the copper scales is in the shape of a tongue of fire. When in physical form, he can use his Skinchanger Virtue to adopt the shape of a desert hawk.''
''Wahhab is a jinni who inhabits the ancient ruins of a fane to a forgotten god, which dates to before Christianity or Islam came to Iberia. He is a spirit of fire, relishing the baking heat of his desert home. He is passionate, brave, vain, and loves the reflected glow of flames on precious metals and gems, which he is amassing in a secret cache.''
''Wahhab can be used as a template to create other types of jinn; full rules for creating spirits will appear in a later book for Ars Magica Fifth Edition. All jinn can mimic Hermetic spells related to their element (see Wahhab’s Crafter of Fire Power), but cannot create an effect whose level is greater than their Might. More powerful jinn may have more Powers, such as instant transportation or the creation of wealth. Since they are spirits of a place, the physical location haunted by a jinni acts as an Arcane Connection that provides a +1 bonus to the Penetration Multiplier; more potent Arcane Connections can only be obtained from a jinni who has taken corporeal form.''

==Example Jinni: Wahhab==


|]
''to the spirit. Once begun, the jinni may attempt to interfere with the summons (although most do not), so it is wise to erect a Hermetic ward to keep the spirit at bay. The summons makes the spirit assume its material form, and takes at least 15 minutes to perform. The sahir chants the words of command encoded by Solomon, while making the prescribed ritual motions and drawing Arabic figures on the ground. The summons also requires vis of a Form appropriate to the jinni being summoned. The standard cost of a summons is one pawn for every magnitude of Might of the jinni, but the sahir can chose to spend less (with a minimum of 1 pawn) or more (with a maximum equal to the Sihr score). Note that the sahir only has his estimate of the jinni’s Might (assuming he has attempted to discern the jinni prior to the summons), so may unwittingly spend less or more than the standard amount. The amount of vis spent does not affect the summoning, but plays an important role in the bargaining that follows.''
''The sahir generates a Summoning Total based on his Sihr Ability . A successful summons that manages to penetrate the jinni’s Magic Resistance forces the jinni to take physical form before the sahir. Calculate the Summoning Strength, which is the amount by which the sahir’s Casting Total exceeds the Ease Factor. A botched Sihr roll results in the appearance of an infuriated jinni, or a spirit wholly different to than the one intended.''

===Summoning Total: Presence + Sihr +===


===Aura + Stress Die===


===Ease Factor: Jinni’s Might===


===Summoning Penetration: Summoning Total + Penetration Bonus – Jinni’s Might===


===Summoning Strength: Summoning===


===Total – Ease Factor===

''A sahir can spend extra time on his summons; every extra 15 minutes causes a loss of a Fatigue level after the summons and adds another botch die to the summoning roll, but also provides a +2 bonus to the Penetration Total. A sahir uses extra time to summon a jinni whose Might is close to his maximum ability.''
''Example: Hachim is a sahir with Presence +2 and Sihr 12, who is trying to summon Wahhab in a Magic aura of 2. Including a stress die of 5, his Summoning Total is 21. This is sufficient to summon Wahhab (Might 15). Hachim’s Penetration Ability is 3; he is standing in Wahhab’s haunt and knows the jinni’s nickname, giving him a Penetration Multiplier of 3 overall. His Penetration Total is therefore (21 + [3 x 3] – 15), or 15. Since this equals Wahhab’s Might, the summons penetrates, and Hachim has a Summoning Strength of (21 – 15), or +6.''
''Bargaining with the Jinni: Once the jinni arrives, the sahir must bargain with it to gain its services. The power of Sihr means that the jinni cannot depart or attack until a bargain has been struck between magus and spirit, or they have mutually decided that no bargain can be achieved. However, a sahir who refuses to make a bargain releases the jinni from making a pact. “Bargain” may be a misleading word; a skilled sahir can obtain the services of a weak jinn without offering anything in return. This bargain is magically enforced: the jinni cannot break the word of the bargain unless the sahir reneges on the terms of the deal, and most also obey the spirit of the bargain if the sahir treats him well. A sahir can attempt to strike a bargain with any jinni, not just those he has summoned — for example, re-negotiation following the elapsing of a previous bargain — although Summoning Strength gives an oft-needed advantage.''

===Bargain Total: Communication + Bargain + Summoning Strength + Stress===


===Die===


===Ease Factor: 18 + Bargain Modifiers===

''The Ease Factor has a Bargain Modifier, which depends on what the sahir is asking from the jinni, and what he offers in return.''
''A failed bargain roll results in a failure to make a bargain, and the jinni is not compelled to remain. A botch results in the sahir acquiring either Supernatural Nuisance (for a weak jinni) or Plagued by Jinni (for a moderate or powerful jinni) for at least a month. A successful bargain binds the jinni to the beck and call of the sahir for the duration of the bargain. He can ask it to perform any task within its power, although when a jinni expends its last Might point in the service of the sahir, then the bargain ends, regardless of the length of service remain''
''ing. The jinni cannot renege on any solemn oaths it has made prior to the summons; this includes, for jinni who have adopted a religion, disobeying the tenets of that faith. The jinni cannot swear any new oaths during its service without permission from the sahir. A jinni who is in service for a season or more may be used as a source of knowledge on Sihr, the appropriate Hermetic Form, or either Faerie, Magic, or Infernal Lore (as appropriate). A jinni can only instruct a sahir once for each Ability or Art. A sahir can have a number of jinn in service to him at any one time equal to his Leadership score, although all sahirs can command at least one jinni.''

===Source Quality of a Jinni: 3 X Magni===


===Tude of Might===


===Maximum Number of Jinni: Equal To===


===Leadership (Minimum 1)===


[|

==Bargain Modifiers==


===Provision Modifier===

''Terms are general in scope (“Follow me around and do as I say”)''
''+3''
''Term are specific in scope (“Help me find the Emerald of Al-Andalus”)''
''+0''
''Terms constitute a single task (“Get me safely across the Straits of Gibraltar”)''
''–3''
''Service to last 1 day –3''
''Service to last 1 week 0''
''Service to last 1 month +3''
''Service to last 1 season +6''
''Service to last 1 year +9''
''Sahir accepts a simple duty''
''–3''
''Sahir accepts an onerous duty''
''–6''
''Sahir spent less vis than the standard cost''
''+2*''
''Sahir spent more vis than the standard cost''
''–2*''
''* Modifier is per pawn under or over the standard cost.''

|]

===Hermetic Magic===

''Sahirs tend to excel at the elemental Forms, because of their ability to learn from the jinn whom they summon. Sahirs should always know spells that will protect them against a jinn in the event of a failed bargain, and cautious sahirs erect a ward around themselves before beginning a summons. Hermetic magic lacks the distinction to ward against the jinn specifically, and because of their bias towards the elemental Forms, sahirs are usually capable of creating stronger wards against specific jinn (jinn of the waters, jinn of the earth, and so forth), despite needing to know separate variants of these spells for Faerie, Magic, and Infernal jinn. Apotropaic magics — those which strip a spirit of its Might — are typically part of the arsenal of a sahir.''

===Suleiman’s Wrath On the Oath-forsaken Jinni===

''PeVi Gen R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind This spell weakens and possibly destroys a creature with Magic Might. If''
''the spell penetrates the creature’s Magic Resistance, the creature loses Might equal to the spell’s level. A creature with zero Might is permanently destroyed. The creature must be sensed by the caster to be a valid target; the caster may have to employ other magic to perceive a spirit before using this spell.''
''(Base effect, +2 Voice)''

==Seirenes==

''This tradition is comprised of a group of magae who practice a form of lyrical magic taught to their founder by the sirens of legend. The music of the Seirenes allows them to influence the thoughts and actions of their listeners and is especially effective when performed in a trio.''

==Key Facts==

''Favored Tribunal: The Seirenes are predominantly located in the Thebes,''
''Roman, and Provencal Tribunals and favor covenants near the Mediterranean Sea, but''
''they travel extensively throughout Mythic Europe and can be encountered anywhere.''
''Major Non-Hermetic Virtue: Siren Song Minor Hermetic Virtue: Minor Magical''
''Focus (Mentem – an emotion) Major Hermetic Flaw: Necessary''
''Condition (all spells must be sung) Miscellaneous: The Seirenes only select''
''females as apprentices.''

==History==

''Long ago, Thelxiope (theel-KHIopee) was born and raised in a small port city of Greece. As a young woman, she fell in love with a handsome sailor. Thelxiope begged the young man to abandon his life at sea. Although he promised to marry her, he never intended to and only made the promise to entertain himself between voyages. The sailor finally told Thelxiope that he would be leaving forever on the eve of their wedding. The naïve Thelxiope was unwilling to live without her fiancé and stowed away on his ship.''
''Before Thelxiope could be discovered, the ship traveled near the island of the sirens. The sirens’ magical song drew the sailors toward the rocks. As the ship began to sink, the sirens delighted in watching the sailors drown. But this time the sirens heard the unfamiliar sound of a young woman’s pleas for help. Perhaps moved by their guilt at failing to save Persephone from Hades, the sirens flew to Thelxiope and pulled her from the sea.''
''Thelxiope told her story to the sirens, who took pity on her for foolishly falling in love with a sailor. They cared for Thelxiope and eventually taught her the secrets of their magic. Although the sirens preached their hatred of men to Thelxiope, she did not initially adopt it.''
''Before the voyage to retrieve the Golden Fleece, Chiron warned Jason that he and his Argonauts would be lost at sea unless Orpheus accompanied them. Chiron’s prophecy was fulfilled when the Argo approached the island of the sirens. As the sirens’ song drew the Argonauts toward the rocks, Orpheus began playing his lyre and the beauty of his music overcame the lure of their song. The sirens''

[|
''Simple Duties: Cleansing or protecting the jinni’s home, guarding a human family to whom the jinni has become attached, retrieving stolen wealth, writing a poem in praise of the jinn, providing rare commodities such as frankincense or rubies.''
''Onerous Duties: Fighting wizards who seek to enslave jinn, freeing slaves from captivity, playing a jest on an important local figure, delivering the heart of an enemy, procuring a unique item such as a book written in Solomon’s own hand.''

==Typical Duties for Sahirs==

''Having a sahir character in the saga poses some different challenges compared to other magi. A sahir’s work is all done up front; summoning jinn and binding them to service before heading off to complete a task. However, his nonHermetic magic is critically dependent on the amount of vis available in the saga, for this determines his capacity to summon jinn. Further, a sahir is best on his home turf where he has fully investigated the local jinn, and knows their capabilities well. The storyguide should consider creating several jinn from the region''
''around the covenant, and allowing other players to run them as secondary characters during stories. A jinni must obey the bargain between itself and the sahir, but need not do so slavishly. Different jinn have different personalities; some might be friendly and willing to help, others might be hostile and attempt to twist the bargain that was made. Remember also that as a sahir gains in power, he will desire to summon more powerful jinn, so the storyguide should ensure the area has a range of spirits, or that the sahir meets such entities in his travels.''

==Sahirs in the Saga==

''became fi lled with a jealous rage when they heard Orpheus’s music. They could not suffer defeat at the hands of a mere man and threw themselves into the sea and turned to stone. To this day, the Seirenes are hostile toward the members of the Cult of Orpheus.''
''Thelxiope bitterly left the island forever, intent on exacting revenge on the world of men. She traveled Europe using her magical powers to punish any cruel or unfaithful man she encountered. These petty acts left Thelxiope unfulfi lled. It was only when she encountered an orphaned girl and adopted her as her ward that Thelxiope’s life took on meaning. The young girl possessed The Gift and had been ostracized by her village because of it. Thelxiope trained her in magic, and the two traveled across Europe searching for other Gifted girls to save.''

==Culture==

''Thelxiope discovered and trained many young women on her travels. After she retired, her pupils continued the search. The Seirenes continue to place an emphasis on recruiting apprentices to their tradition. Because a Seirene often identifi es a Gifted women before she is able to train her adequately, the Seirenes have developed a custom of sending their apprentices to begin training in Music and Siren Song with their parentes. After her gauntlet and before she joins a covenant, a Seirene usually spends time traveling with two other Seirenes. When combined with the joint early training that Seirenes have, these practices have created a very tight-knit tradition.''
''The Seirenes do not only seek women with The Gift. They readily recruit any female with Supernatural Abilities, or any with a damaged Gift, who might be capable of learning Siren Song. The Seirenes treat these unGifted members as equals in all aspects; however, the Order does not grant them the voting rights of true magae.''
''The Seirenes’ search to discover Gifted women defi nes their tradition. The Seirenes believe that the conditions for women, especially Gifted ones, are intolerable in the male-dominated society of Mythic Europe. Thelxiope’s followers know that changing society is a slow process, but they take small steps where they can. When a Seirene discovers a woman ruling her own lands, running her own business,''
''or performing any role tra''
''ditionally limited to men,''
''she surreptitiously assists''
''the woman or hinders''
''her male rivals.''
''The Seirenes also attempt to make their covenants more egalitarian. To do this, Seirenes ensure that their covenants''
''recruit exceptional women wherever they''
''fi nd them. They also encourage female grogs and covenfolk to perform traditional male''
''roles whenever they show any aptitude.''
''Seirenes are not virulently anti-male, merely vigorously pro-female.''
''The Seirenes entered the Order relatively early in its history. Although their magic was powerful against mundane men, a magus of only moderate power or anyone familiar with the tale of Odysseus''
''could easily defeat it. The''
''Seirenes realized this''
''and accepted the offer''
''of membership in the''
''Order for access to Bonisagus’s versatile''
''magic and the protection of the Parma Magica. The Seirenes also recognized that the Order was essentially a meritocracy where all members were given an equal voice.''
''At Tribunal, the Seirenes tend to vote at the direction of their leadership. This practice is not followed as rigidly as it is by House Tremere, and each member retains''
''g , ope''
''ed''
''y r''
'', e''
''''
''o''
''c''
''r t''
''a g''
''.''
''e at''
''cery''
''p ditio''
''she''
''the''
''h''
''t th''
''r w''
''fi e an fo''
''r h m''
''ag m po wit''
''cou''
''Se''
''an''
''o''

==Islands of the Sirens==

''The legends list several possible islands where the sirens made their home. These include Anthemoessa, between Sicily and the Italian Peninsula; Cape Peloris; Capri; and Sirenum Scopuli. The island that was the fi nal home of the sirens is unknown. It is said to be white with the bleached bones of sailors who were drawn to their deaths by the sirens. It is likely to posses a Magic aura or possibly a regio.''
''The sirens were powerful magical creatures and the stone remains of their bodies are a treasure trove of vis. If the Seirenes ever discover that someone has harvested those remains, that person gains a very dedicated enemy. When the sirens died, they also left behind their magical instruments. Legend tells that the trio was comprised of a vocalist accompanied by sirens playing the lyre and the fl ute. Their instruments were allegedly made from the bones of dead sailors. Not only would these instruments have great historical value to a member of the Seirenes tradition, but they are also powerful magical devices.''
''Story. Seed: A town is overrun with vermin when a colorfully dressed man offers his assistance. He promises to clear the town of its rats in exchange for a generous sum of money. The man plays a sweet melody and the rats blindly follow into a nearby lake to drown, but the town refuses to pay. On the next feast day, the man returns and plays another sweet melody. All of the children of the town follow him into a nearby mountain where they disappear forever. Is a Seirene, disguised as a man, extorting from towns throughout Mythic Europe? Or did some man discover the lost island of the sirens of legend?''

|]
''her own sigil. The leadership of the tradition is determined every 12 years at a grand competition. All Seirenes compete for the titles of First Singer, First Lyrist, and First Flautist. The winners are chosen by vote of all members present at the grand competition, which is held at the covenant of the reigning First Singer. Other than this honor, the three Firsts are treated equally and have equal authority. Although someone without The Gift has never won the competition, the possibility exists.''

==Characters==

''Before joining the Order, the Seirenes practiced a form of magic that was based solely on the power of their voices and their songs. This foundation still strongly influences the magic of the tradition. The Supernatural Virtue Siren Song is the focus of training for a junior maga, but becomes less important as a she develops her Hermetic Arts.''
''All Seirene magae suffer from the Major Hermetic Flaw Necessary Condition. All of their spells must be sung. This does not mean that all of a Seirene’s spells must have Range Voice, but it does mean that all spells must have a vocal component. A Seirene may never silently cast a spell, and she may not have the Quiet Magic Virtue.''
''The Seirene magae also have the Virtue Minor Magical Focus (Mentem – “an emotion”). The focus of the Virtue may be any emotion. The emotion is usually determined by the Seirene’s personality, and the specialty tends to either exemplify the maga’s strongest Personality Trait or its antithesis. A very sensual Seirene may have the focus “lust,” and use her magic to control men with it. Conversely, a very serene maga may have the focus “anger,” because she specializes in soothing it.''
''Because a Seirene’s score in Music limits her skill in Siren Song, most of these magae spend a great deal of time perfecting their singing and performance skills. This focus on entertaining leads many Seirenes to have the Virtues Free Expression, Inspirational, Puissant Ability (Music), or Performance Magic. (See The Mysteries: Revised Edition, pages 29–30.) Skilled Parens is a common Virtue because a Seirene often begins her training with the parens of her mistress. Likewise, the frequent search for apprentices and the peripatetic nature of a Seirene’s apprenticeship makes Well-Traveled and Social Contacts common Virtues.''

===Siren Song===

''This is a Major Virtue that empowers the character’s music with the ability to control those who listen to it. A successful roll of Communication + Music versus the target’s Stamina roll allows the character to''
''issue a command to any individual or group who hears the music. The target remains in the character’s command as long as she produces music. Another roll is required to change or issue new commands. The command is not necessarily articulated in the lyrics of the song. A target does not know why he is following the command, only that it has something to do with the magical melody.''
''If a group of musicians performs together, the Music scores of the other members are added to the singer’s roll. No more than two musicians’ scores can assist the singer in performing a song, and the amount each assistant adds can be no more than the singer’s score in Music.''
''A victim’s resistance roll is modified based on the same factors as the Entrancement Ability.''

===Command Example Target’s===


===Bonus===

''Innocuous Listen to my song +0''
''Questionable Come to me +3''
''Dangerous Follow me out of town''
''+6''
''Heinous Kill your fellows +9''
''Suicidal Crash your ship upon the rocks''
''+12''
''Specialties: Men, children, rats. (Supernatural)''
''Although Siren Song is a more powerful Virtue than Enchanting Music, the two Virtues may be used in combination. Unlike the Enchanting Music Ability, which creates an emotion in a person and can influence individuals on a long-term basis, Siren Song actually controls the mind of the person while he listens to the music. When a character uses both Virtues, her initial command made with Siren Song can be reinforced by an appropriate emotion provided by the Enchanting Music Virtue. The combination can continue to influence the victim after the music has ceased. For the Abilities to be combined, the character must successfully overcome the victim’s Stamina on both rolls. If other Seirenes accompany the character in performing, their Enchanting Music scores may be added to the leader’s roll. The same restrictions and benefits from the Siren Song Virtue apply to a group performing with the Enchanting Music Ability.''

[|

==Seirenes in Your Saga==

''With a little effort, the Seirenes can play a role in any saga, even if no player elects to play one as a maga. The Seirenes act as a natural counterpart to the Cult of Orpheus. Because of Orpheus’s role in the death of the sirens of legend, the Seirenes could serve as antagonists to anyone seeking initiation into the Cult of Orpheus. Likewise, the Seirenes possess a remnant of the lyrical magic that the Orphics have lost. A magos of the Cult might try to rebuild the magic of Orpheus by attempting to learn Siren Song. The Seirenes are not a Mystery Cult, but they do not willingly teach their secrets to males. Should the leadership of the Seirenes discover that a male has learned of their magic, they would likely vow to kill him and start a Wizard’s War against his teacher. If the student is either a follower of Orpheus, or the Cult offers him protection, the conflict between the Seirenes and Orphics could cause widespread disruption. The characters might get involved if the leaders of their Tribunal attempt to broker a peace.''
''Story Seed: Although the sirens who trained Thelxiope died, they were not the last sirens. Sirens live on certain islands in the Mediterranean where they use their beautiful music to lure sailors to their doom. Some Seirenes have aligned themselves with these creatures and live with them away from the world of men. Other Seirenes travel to these islands to learn from the creatures or trade for the magical instruments they can create.''
''Magi often maintain networks of mundane contacts, which they call agencies. Agents pursue the goals of the magus while ensuring that he cannot be implicated in meddling with mundane politics. The following sections describe how agents may be recruited, used, and managed.''
''A character controlling an agency is called its principal, in this chapter. Principals need not be magi, and the rules presented here are suitable for companion characters as well as magi; however, the focus of this book is the Houses of the Order, and so the material here is biased towards magi as principals.''
''An agent is a person bound to offer assistance to a principal. They may be bound by feudal ties, legal contracts, emotional debts, social obligations, or blackmail. Assistance may take many forms, including providing information, using special skills as directed, controlling other people, or completing tasks. A character paid to do his normal job, or convinced to perform a service during play, is not an agent. Much of the work of agents occurs between stories, unobserved by player characters.''

==Agents are Directly Controlled==

''Charismatic principals or those skilled at manipulating others may directly control many agents. If the principal attempts to control more agents than the maximum provided by the formula below, he is subject to problems among his agents due to his inability to manage such a large agency effectively. The result is that stories are incurred (see Maintaining Agents, below), and the principal must let some of his''
''agents go (or recruit a factor, see below) to cope. The characters of other players may be part of an agency, but are not included in this total. A character can always control one agent, no matter how poor his social skills or what the penalty of his Gift.''
''Maximum Number of Agents: [2 x (Presence + Intrigue or Leadership – social penalty of The Gift)], minimum 1''

==Agents Act as Intermediaries==

''Most of the people commanded through an agency are not directly controlled by the principal: they are controlled by one of the principal’s agents. For example, a mercenary leader, who is directly controlled, has a band of cutthroat followers, whom he controls. These additional people are treated as resources, not agents. They do not count toward the principal’s total number of agents, and do not incur stories of their own (see Maintaining Agents, below).''
''An agent employed to control an entire agency on behalf of a magus is called a factor. Magi with weak Leadership, poor Presence, or the Blatant Gift often employ the single agent they are permitted as a factor.''
''Indirectly controlled people serve a useful role under Hermetic law. They enable magi to influence events without the use of magic, and with no mundanely discernable connection between the magus’s instructions and their outcomes. A factor recruits and uses agents on behalf of his principal, and the factor’s Characteristics and Abilities are used in all totals detailed below. Factors usually require more mechanical detail''
''than most agents, and it is often convenient for another player to run the factor as a grog or companion character. If this option is not taken, the storyguide will have to determine his relevant statistics, and how these change over time.''

==Designing Agents==

''It is not necessary for players to design the character sheets of their characters’ agents, but a handful of statistics are required, to quantify the usefulness of each agent. Each agent should have:''
''A name A Social Status Virtue or Flaw A Bond , which is a Personality Trait that expresses the reason that the agent is subordinate to the principal A list of resources useful to the principal, like Abilities, wealth, social influence, or membership in a social circle''
''Example: Carolus has many agents drawn from the criminal underworld of a large city. His player Mark details two of these contacts as follows: Aelfric: Outlaw Leader; Bond: Loyal to Carolus +1. Aelfric runs a small team of bandits who occasionally prey on local merchants. Carolus has protected them thus far from the law, and Aelfric owes him a modicum of loyalty.''
''Godfroi: Merchant; Temporal Influence; Bond: Fear  of Carolus +2. Godfroi handles stolen goods, and Carolus supplies him with merchandise. Godfroi is influential in local government, and the Merchant Guild.''
''Agents may be controlled by principals they consider their inferiors only through coercion. A principal who recruits an agent of higher social standing acquires the effects''
''• • •''
''•''

=Agencies=


|]
''of the Difficult Underlings Story Flaw for dealings with this character, to represent the attempts of the agent to win free from the controlling influence of the principal. The coercion of the agent is represented by a Flaw (such as Blackmail, Dark Secret, and so forth). Thus, a merchant may control a bishop through financial favors, but the bishop hates it. A priest may control a knight with blackmail, but the knight loathes him for it. The exception to this rule is magi, who stand outside the social hierarchy of Mythic Europe and can potentially recruit any individuals they meet as their agents. This problem with social standing is why many magi prefer to deal with their agents directly rather than employing a factor, who often have low social status.''

===Recruiting Agents At Character Creation===

''Some Virtues and Flaws give characters agencies prior to play. These include Social Contacts, Mercenary Captain, Outlaw Leader, Close Family Ties, and Landed Noble. An agency acquired in this way is created by selecting agents from the Resistance of Agents Table, then paying agency points for each equal to  the desired Bond Strength  plus the Resistance Strength from the table. The player has 12 agency points to spend. Every agent must cost at least 1 point, and have a Bond score of at least +1.''

===Recruited Agents As Story Rewards===

''To recruit an agent during a story, the player determines the sort of person she wishes to add to her character’s agency. The potential agent may be someone who the character has already met, or she may need to actively seek an appropriate person. The principal must make a favorable impression on the potential agent at some point during the story; note that “favorable” in this context means favorable to the principal. A character who thoroughly intimidates a target can still make a favorable impression!''

===Impressing a Potential Agent: Presence + Leadership – Social Penalty of the Gift + Stress Die Vs. Ease Factor 6===

''If this roll fails, then the principal cannot try to recruit this agent; the magus repels the character with her personality, or her suggested threats hold insufficient force to be taken seriously. The magus can try again after another story involving an interaction between the two characters.''
''Having identified and impressed the contact, the player must then initiate story events that cajole, persuade, or force her target to form a Bond with the character. At the end of each story, players are given Adventure experience. They spend this normally, but are given an equal number of agency experience points for recruiting those whom they have assisted during that story. Even if the player decides not to take experience from that adventure (in favor of other forms of advancement), these agency experience points are still available.''
''To begin the process of recruiting an agent, calculate the initial Resistance Strength of that character, then apply the agency experience points to this score. It takes the current value of a given Resistance Strength in agency experience points to decrease that strength by one. Thus, five points reduce a Resistance Strength statistic of +5 to +4. A particularly effective agent, with a strong Bond, may take several stories to cultivate. Once a character’s Resistance is reduced to zero, he becomes an agent, although the principal must develop a Bond Strength of at least +1 to call upon him for information or assistance. Agency experience points can also''
''be used to strengthen the Bond of agents the magus already has, as described under Maintaining Agents, below.''
''An agency can also be inherited from another principal, as the result of story events. This must be done with the collaboration of the previous principal. The new principal must impress each agent in turn, as above, but the Bond Strength between the agent and the previous principal adds to the Ease Factor of this roll . If this roll fails, then the agent refuses to transfer his loyalty and leaves the agency, perhaps taking whatever resources he can lay his hands upon. If the roll succeeds, each agent’s Bond Strength is maintained at the former score by the new principal, but its description may change. A knight who serves a widowed noblewoman because he loves her, for example, may change his bond from Love to Loyalty when the agency passes to her son. A character who Feared the old principal may feel Gratitude toward the new one. Hostile takeovers are not usually possible; instead, each agent must be recruited in the normal fashion. As soon as the agent’s Resistance reaches zero then loyalty is transferred to the new principal.''
''Agents can also be given by the storyguide as rewards for skilled play. Some story events offer immediate Bonds. For example, if characters save the life of a student, he might feel gratitude sufficient to form a Bond. Agents cannot be purchased with money or vis.  These would be hirelings, which are detailed in Covenants.''

==Using Agents==

''A magus uses his agents by setting one or more of them a task. Agents must, at the discretion of the troupe, have the skill and opportunity required to fulfill the principal’s request, and the agent must have a Bond Strength of at least +1. The player of the principal then makes the following roll to determine if the agent agrees to perform the requested action:''

===Persuasion Roll: Communication + Charm, Intrigue, Or Leadership + Bond===


===Strength – Social Penalty of the Gift + Stress Die Vs. Ease Factor (See Table===


===Under Tasks for Agents)===


[|

==Partial Adoption==

''Some troupes prefer to not define the agents that characters receive due to Virtues and Flaws, instead only accounting for those gained during play. If, in your own saga, your players feel it is more convenient for a person with the Social Contacts Virtue to be assured of knowing somewhere wherever he goes, or your storyguide likes being able to add obscure cousins with a talent for finding trouble to the family tree of characters with Close Family Ties, then there’s no need to convert these into fully described agencies.''

|]
''Assuming the agent accepts the task, the storyguide may choose to resolve the task with a die roll against an appropriate Ability of the agent’s (using the Easy, Hard, or Impressive Ease Factor from the Tasks for Agents insert). Alternatively, the storyguide can run a side story, with the player taking on the character of the agent, and other players taking on antagonistic roles. This latter suggestion can prove disruptive to troupe-style play, and should only be used for important plot exposition. All agents are assumed to have contacts, which they use without prompting, to fulfill requests from the principal.''
''The most common use for an agent is as a source of information; well-placed agents in the right places can feed back useful information to their principals almost passively with little effort. The agent may also be used in an active manner, seeking a specific piece of information, at possible risk and/or cost to themselves. It must be possible that an agent knows the requested information, or can obtain it with minor effort. If this is not true, then the character is asking for assistance from her agent (see below), rather than information.''
''A principal should not ask for substantial information from each of her contacts more than once per season, else the contact considers the principal an unwelcome burden and looks for ways to loosen her hold. Of course, this restriction does not apply to simple gossip, scuttlebutt, or general information known to many people, just to information which is sensitive, or to which the contact is privy and has intrinsic value.''
''Agents may also be called upon for assistance. By cashing in past favors, or applying pressure or incentive on an agent, a principal can induce that contact to use his individual skills or knowledge in the service of his employer. Once again, the assistance requested must be appropriate to the agent — a priest cannot be asked to break into a castle at night to steal a lock of hair from the duke’s daughter; this is a task for a criminal practiced in stealth and climbing. Most characters have only two “free” seasons a year, and since this time is spread throughout the year rather than occurring in discrete blocks, an agent cannot always spare the time. Characters with Social Status Virtues may have more time to devote to their principal, but the incen''
''tive must be good, for time is valuable. Agents with Social Status Flaws might be unavailable for long periods of time as they hide from the authorities or spend time in jail (see Confounding Factors, below). Example: Carolus needs to borrow the signet ring of a mayor, which he intends to enchant with a minor effect. He therefore approaches Tom the Cutpurse, one of his agents with a Bond of Gratitude +3. The favor he is asking is a hard task that incurs moderate risk to Tom, so Mark (Carolus’s player) needs a persuasion roll of 9 or more to persuade his agent to do this favor. Assuming this roll is successful (probably through the expenditure of Confidence Points), to resolve the theft itself the storyguide pits Tom’s Dexterity + Legerdemain against an Ease Factor of 12, on a stress die with three botch dice. If this succeeds, Carolus will need Tom’s services again in a season’s time to replace the ring.''

===Confounding Situations===

''An agent who has a Flaw listed in the Resistance of Agents insert is not always available to his principal. These Flaws will not always come into play, but the storyguide should ensure that they do limit the usefulness of that character to the principal under certain circumstances, and a Major Flaw should be more problematic to circumvent than a Minor Flaw. As a guide, an agent with a Minor Flaw might be unable to help his principal once out of every four''
''requests, and a Major Flaw should be about twice as inhibiting.''
''A character who begins play with an agency due to a Virtue or Flaw may take the Story Flaw Difficult Underlings to represent a fractured relationship with his agents, in which case it applies to all agents. As mentioned above, when this Flaw is gained when a non-magus recruits an agent of higher social standing than himself, its effects apply only to the agents of higher social status.''

===Maintaining Agents===

''Agencies are not static things. Death is an inevitable part of life in Mythic Europe, and agents may be lost due to story events or to events outside the control of the principal. Having an agency is therefore similar to having a Story Flaw, in that characters who possess them may find themselves having to become involved in stories to maintain them. For example:''
''An agent who is regularly pressed for sensitive information may acquire a reputation as a snitch, which will reduce his overall effectiveness. An agent recruited through blackmail might call the bluff of a principal. An agent might be accused of a crime that will result in his death if he is found guilty.''
''•''
''•''
''•''

[|
''A newly contacted agent has a Resistance Strength, which represents his reluctance to serve the principal. The more powerful and skilled the agent, the greater this Resistance is, as determined by the table on the next page. The character reduces this Resistance Strength using the methods given in the Recruiting Agents sections. When the potential agent’s Resistance Strength reaches zero, he falls under the influence of the principal, who must then develop a Bond Strength of at least +1 to start using the agent. The principal may continue to improve the Bond score using the methods given under Maintaining Agents, below, to a maximum of +6, represent''
''ing a fanatically dedicated agent. The examples given in this table account only for Virtues and Flaws given in Ars Magica Fifth Edition. Supplements often contain new Virtues and Flaws, which troupes cost at their discretion.''
''Agents created on this table do not need to balance their Virtues and Flaws. Players should only account for resources the agent will use in play. Characters with many valuable features are so rare that a player character could not realistically seek them out. Storyguides may introduce such characters, as targets for recruitment, as a reward for skilled play.''
''Hermetic magi are never agents.''

==Resistance of Agents==


|]
''An agent might die, but his brother or son might seek the same deal with his principal.''
''• Depending upon how these stories are resolved, the Bond Strength of the agent involved might decline by one or more''
''points, and should a Bond Strength decline below zero, the agent ceases to work for the principal. Bond Strengths can only''

[|

===Social Status Resistance Examples===

''Major Social Virtue 3 Landed Noble*, Magister et Artibus, Redcap''
''Minor Social Virtue 1 Clerk, Custos, Failed Apprentice, Gentleman/woman, Knight, Mendicant Friar, Mercenary Captain*, Priest, Wise One''
''Free Social Virtue (except Hermetic Magus)''
''0 Covenfolk, Craftsman, Merchant, Peasant, Wanderer''
''Minor Social Status Flaws –1 Branded Criminal, Outcast, Outlaw Leader*''
''Major Social Status Flaws –3 Outlaw, Outsider''
''* Must also take useful underlings, below''
''Modifiers The agent is easily suborned if he has . . .''

===Circumstance Modifier Examples===

''Major Flaws likely to inconvenience principal''
''–3 Enemies, Feud, Lycanthrope, Plagued by Supernatural Entity''
''Minor Flaws likely to inconvenience principal''
''–1 Black Sheep, Dark Secret, Dependant, Diabolic Past, Favors, Infamous''
''Minor Flaw used by the player character to dominate agent''
''–6* Principal has hostage (Dependent or True Love), is Blackmailing using Dark Secret, Diabolic Past, or other leverage (Blackmail)''
''*Agent hates principal, which inflicts Difficult Underlings Flaw for this agent only''

===Resources===


===Resource Modifier Examples===

''Extraordinary skill: Main Ability score is 6 or more +1''
''Exceptional skill: Main ability score 8 or more +3''
''Minor General or Supernatural Virtue +1 Gossip, Magic Sensitivity, Protection, Skinchanger, Social Contacts, Temporal Influence''
''Major General or Supernatural Virtue +3 Entrancement, True Faith, Wealthy''
''Serves Rival Covenant +9''
''Underlings +1 Up to a half-dozen people, including agents and hirelings''
''Many Underlings +3 Up to two dozen people, including agents and hirelings''
''Useful Minor Flaw +1 Busybody, Faerie Friend, Magical Animal Companion, Mentor''
''Has more than three resources in this list +6''
''Has more than six resources in this list +9''
''Minimum A potential agent’s Resistance cannot be less than 1.''
''Examples Aelfric, as an Outlaw Leader with a half-dozen underlings, has a Resistance Strength of 0. Godfroi is a Merchant, costing 0 points, so his Temporal Influence makes his Resistance Strength +1.''

==Resistance of Agents Table==


|]
''increase through active participation of the principal, and there are two main methods: favors and money.''
''Favors are an effective way of cultivating an agent and increasing his Bond Strength. The player of the principal must conceive a way in which her character can assist the agent, perhaps with advice from the storyguide. Once the story has been played out, the storyguide awards Adventure experience points in the usual fashion, and an equal number of agency''
''experience points are applied directly to the strength of the Bond, using the same progression as Arts on the Advancement Table (ArM5, page 31). Such stories can focus heavily on one character, so the storyguide may wish to conduct these stories separately from the main game night, or involve the other players as antagonists (or even protagonists). Example: Bandits are regularly stealing Godfroi’s supplies, so Carolus uses mind-reading spells to find out which of the merchant’s employees''
''has been selling the caravan’s routes to the bandits, and then arranges an ambush. This earns the magus three Adventure experience points. The magus spends the three points normally, but the ruthless manner in which he dealt with the issue has also earned three agency experience points toward Godfroi’s Bond Strength, which is enough to raise his Fear (Carolus) +2 to +3.''
''Money can be used to increase the Bond Strength of an agent, but agents are not generally employees, and only so much loyalty can be bought. To certain types of agents, this might seem suspiciously like bribery, and a principal must tread lightly if he has such individuals as part of his agency. One Mythic Pound’s worth of material goods can take the place of 5 agency experience points (or 4 shillings per point) without need for a story. The exchange rate of money for agency points may vary according to the wealth of the agent: for example, hard cash might be twice as effective for an impoverished agent, but half as effective for a rich one. However, Bond Strength can never rise above +3 by the application of money. If using the Wealth and Poverty rules from Covenants (see Chapter 5: Wealth and Poverty), a troupe may wish to impose a regular minor upkeep cost for agents; it is suggested that 10 points of Bond Strength divided between one or more agents incur the same cost to maintain as a single nonspecialist servant of the covenant.''

[|

===Task Ease Factor for Persuasion Roll===


===Example===

''Provide common information, which is easily obtained''
''3 Relay what the gossips are saying about yesterday’s events in the town square''
''Provide sensitive information, which is difficult to obtain''
''6 Discover the address of the bishop’s mistress''
''Provide secret information, known to a select few''
''9 Uncover which other nobles are members of the duke’s diabolic cabal''
''Perform an Easy task (Ease Factor 6)''
''3 Persuade a merchant to give passage to a magus with The Blatant Gift''
''Perform a Hard task (Ease Factor 12)''
''6 Steal a ring from a lady’s finger''
''Perform an Impressive task (Ease Factor 18)''
''9 Arrange a fatal accident for the prince''

==Tasks for Agents==


==Modifiers to Persuasion Roll Ease Factors==


===Timeframe Modifer===

''Within a few weeks +0''
''Within a few days +1''
''Within a day +3''

===Personal Risk Modifier Example===

''No risk to self (simple die) +0 Deliver a package to a merchant''
''Risk of embarrassment or reputation (attempt requires a stress die, 1 botch die)''
''+1 Deliver a prostitute to a merchant''
''Risk of injury or imprisonment (attempt requires a stress die, 3 botch dice)''
''+3 Deliver a threat to a rich merchant''
''Risk of death (attempt requires a stress die, 5 botch dice)''
''+6 Deliver a threat to the bishop, in his own palace''

==The Other Side of the Coin==

''It is possible for a player character to be an agent rather than a principal. This usually entails the Favors Story Flaw, but a Mentor may also consider your character to be part of his agency. Your character’s principal or his factor will contact your character on an irregular basis and request information or assistance. You should consider what hold the principal has over your character, and what the consequences are of refusing to help him.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
