''Symbol: The scales of justice balanced on a sword. Motto: Lex super voluntate (The law above the will.)''
''Without Guernicus and his wisdom the Order would have ﬂoundered within the lifetime of the Founders. Without the ﬁrm hand of his descendants, magi would be living under the yoke of tyranny; lower in dignity and circumstance than before even the Founding. So say the Quaesitores, and who could doubt them? Through adversity and injustice, men of quality forge societies of security and justice from the ruins of another’s fall. Yet later generations, who know nothing of hardship, trade their inheritance for petty gain; thus its ideals fall to corruption. Once lost, the society slides towards lawlessness and chaos until once again the people cry out for salvation. A new order then arises to restore virtue. This fate is inevitable. House Guernicus believes it stands against the wheel of fate, slowing it as best it can. By the efforts of its magi the basic structures of Hermetic society have remained intact for over four hundred years. The majority of Guernicus magi hold the ofﬁce of Quaesitor, named after the magistrates of the Roman Republic. The Quaesitores are the ofﬁcial judges and investigators of the Order. They oversee Tribunals and ensure they uphold the Code. If a magus is to be punished, it is a Quaesitor who sets the penalty. They inves''
''tigate individuals and covenants suspected of breaking the Code of Hermes. To aid their task, they have uncovered the roots of Hermetic magic in Rome, Greece and ancient Egypt. This gives them strength of tradition and access to powerful, secret rituals, which they guard in their domus magna. This chapter should prove useful to all players, as it gives the legal framework of the Order. Non-Guernicus player characters may aspire to become Quaesitors themselves or simply act as an investigator once or twice.''

==Chapter Structure==

''This chapter is split into ten main headings, listed below. History: The history of the House up to 1220 AD. Organization: The organization of the House, including the Domus Magna, its Council and the current Prima. The Code of Hermes: An overview of the Code, including its common interpretation. Tribunal Procedure: How a criminal case is brought and tried at Tribunal. Also, how rulings can be sought independent of a criminal case. Quaesitorial Duties and Powers: What a Quaesitor does and his status within the Code. Guernicus Magi: How Guernicus magi are apprenticed and guided in their careers. How Guernicus magi advance through their House, achieve and maintain positions of authority. Running Stories for a Quaesitor: Advice on how investigation stories may be constructed and run for a troupe. Allies: Those who commonly aid the Quaesitores it their work.''

=House Guernicus=

''“If we are to have an Order to regulate and command our behavior, let there be no question about it. Let there be no weakness in the law, let there be no exceptions for those who feel they are above the Code. If we are to have an Order of Hermes, we will give it the order of law.”''
''— Guernicus, Founder of the House, at the First Tribunal''
''Quaesitorial Magic: Spells commonly employed by Quaesitors in investigations and trials. Fenicil’s Rituals: The secret rituals of House Guernicus.''

==History==

''The following history is written from the perspective of Guernicus scholars. It reﬂects their particular point of view and ideology. Scholars of other Houses would doubtless take issue with many points of interpretation expressed here.''

==Before the Order==

''When the Cult of Mercury disbanded most Mercurians fell into destitution. With their Gift and limited magical repertoire, securing an honest living often proved impossible. Many used what powers they had for theft, robbery and extortion; no more than bandits with magic. With its knowledge so fragmented, most Mercurians had developed less than a dozen usable spells. After these were perfected, the easiest road to more power lay in acquiring the spells of others. Usually they sought these by the methods they knew best; theft and violence. There were exceptions though. On the Cult’s fall a single Mercurian priest retained spells relating to earth and metal. From him a small earth wizard lineage, the Terrae-magi, adapted and developed this knowledge for use in their reduced circumstances. They retained knowledge of huge rituals that could generate earthquakes and volcanoes, but lacked the numbers and resources to cast''
''them. In any case, such spells had little practical application for impoverished men and women in the failing Roman Empire. However, from this knowledge they created smaller spells that a single wizard could cast. They had spells that would cause the earth to swallow up their enemies or smash them with a boulder. They developed spells to increase the fertility of earth, giving them a service they could trade for food and shelter. One spell however was both their blessing and their curse, a spell that conjured precious metals from thin air. Generous coin could buy even a Gifted man food and a warm bed, and in time, perhaps even acceptance within a community. However, rumors of the Terrae-magi’s metal conjuring grew legendary amongst the remnants of the Mercurian tradition. Greed for metal conjuring gave even more incentive to hunt for their spells. The Terraemagi took to living in secret and burying their grimoires in underground chambers, only accessible with their own magic. Still, predatory Mercurians regularly discovered them. Terrae-magi could put up a ﬁght though and no aggressor ever managed to steal their grimoires, although attrition took its toll. By 756 AD only one Terrae-magus was left alive, Guernicus. As a young man he had returned home from Mass to ﬁnd two Mercurian wizards torturing his beloved master. Intent as they were on their task, Guernicus managed to slay one without warning; the other panicked and ran. Despite Guernicus’s care, his master died a long, painful death. Guernicus spent the next seven years hunting down the remaining wizard. During this time Guernicus became both feared and respected. Tracking down a Mercurian wizard was a dangerous business, as all were secretive and on guard. He would approach any Mercurian he came across and demand to know if they had seen his quarry. Despite his Gentle Gift, Guernicus was often attacked, but by a mixture of luck and cunning he managed to survive battle after battle. Even if he defeated a wizard, he was not interested in their magical secrets; he was only interested in his quarry. If he found a wizard suffering unjust persecution he would aid them. His honor, charity and determination earned him the respect and trust of many he encountered, although for his part Guernicus remained suspicious of all wizards. With these allies he eventually he tracked his man down. The murderer was trapped in an underground chamber with the grimoires he had wished to steal. With no food, no water and only a single candle, learning the earth magic needed to escape was an impossible task.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Key Facts==

''Population: 98 (plus 41 non-Guernicus Quaesitors). Domus magna: Magvillus in the Rome Tribunal. Prima: The Archmaga Bilera. Known for her investigative and negotiation skills, Bilera was appointed Prima to help heal the rift between the Traditionalists and the Transitionalists.''

==Famous Figures==

''Guernicus, Founder of the House. Fenicil, researcher into ancient magical traditions. Simprim, founder of the Transitionalist movement.''

|}

==The Order Forms==

''As Trianoma sought out wizards to join the Order, she heard of Guernicus. His reputation for defending other wizards was extraordinary at that time. A number of Mercurians considered him a friend, ascribing his moral character to his Christian faith. Bonisagus needed knowledge of earth magic for his universal magic theory and Guernicus’s excellent reputation was equally valuable to Trianoma. In 762 AD, the two met and Trianoma’s legendary diplomatic skills were tested against Guernicus’s suspicion and cynicism. Although Guernicus was happy to live in peace, he could not believe other wizards could. Although he acknowledged exceptions, he thought immorality intrinsic to the Gifted nature. He would swear an oath and keep it, but had no faith others would. Given that Trianoma was promising to teach Parma Magica to any who join her Order, Guernicus accepted, so he would not be disadvantaged when it inevitably fell. He agreed to share his knowledge with Bonisagus, again so he would not be disadvantaged in the ensuing chaos. When the form of the Hermetic Oath was debated, Guernicus argued that all members should have the same voting weight at Tribunals; that not even the Founders should be given precedence in voting. The Founders''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Thief’s Tomb==

''Guernicus never revealed where he entombed his prey. Although much of Guernicus’s original earth magic was incorporated into Hermetic magic, Mercurian grimoires would still be valuable. Some think the suspicious Guernicus would have held back secrets from Bonisagus and that these grimoires would revolutionize Terram magic. Rumor has it that one tome dated back to the Cult of Mercury and held ﬁve of the original thirty-eight spells. Over the years many magi have sought out clues to the location of the thief’s tomb. None succeeded, but many came close and wrote of their investigations. If a magus were to gather these tracts and piece the clues together, he might be able to discover the tomb. However, to claim the prize he must contend with an angry ghost. Guernicus never wanted the tomb to be found, so many members of his House would feel disturbing it to be an insult to their Founder’s memory. Although not illegal, such an act will antagonize many Quaesitors. Any tomb raiders would be advised to keep their future activities strictly legal.''

|}
''could rule their followers, but not the Tribunals. This was agreed and the system of Houses and Primi was settled. Even after Bonisagus had taught them Hermetic magic, Guernicus and Trianoma argued constantly over the viability of the Order. Guernicus contended that only though a strictly enforced Code could the Order survive. In the early years he was constantly looking for examples of magi breaking the spirit of the Oath, challenging magi to settle ambiguities in its interpretation. He also looked for offenses not covered by the Oath that might lead to discord. Diedne was Guernicus’s staunchest ally in this and other matters. Magi of House Diedne held their ritual sites sacred to their religion. Diedne complained that other magi were desecrating her members’ sacred places with intrusions. Criamon also found the privacy of his Mystery threatened. In response Guernicus, Criamon and Diedne demanded that the privacy of sanctums was protected. This and other proposals were agreed and soon a body of Tribunal rulings were formed, clarifying, expanding and embellishing the Code — the Peripheral Code. Satisﬁed with the result, Guernicus revised his estimate on the''
''lifespan of the Order to, “Three score years and ten — or perhaps few more thanks to longevity potions.” Exasperated, Trianoma asked what more was needed. Guernicus replied that the Order needed a magus dedicated to the task of keeping the peace, exposing transgression and ensuring the law was kept, yet it had none. Trianoma challenged Guernicus to be that magus and he accepted.''

==The Quaesitores==

''As the years progressed Guernicus’s apprentices shared their parens’ responsibilities. These magi began to be known collectively as the Quaesitores. Magi of other Houses began to complain that they had no say in the application of the law. Guernicus met with the other Primi and agreed to allow magi of other Houses to become Quaesitors. Traditionally at least one member of every House must be given the Quaesitor title. These magi represent their House within the Quaesitores. However, the Guernicus Primus is careful only to grant the title to magi who are objective rather than partisan, on an individual basis at least. In fact, many even rule harshly against members of their Houses to ensure that they are not seen as showing favor. It is said that the last person one wants as a Quaesitor, is a Quaesitor from one’s own House.''

==The Life of Guernicus==

''Guernicus spent most of his years trying to guide the growing Peripheral Code as he thought best. He was often unsuccessful. He had wished the Order to be purely voluntary, but found little support. He managed to convince the First Tribunal to rule that magi should offer membership to peaceful wizards rather than simply kill them. This became the ‘Join or Die’ ruling, but in was quickly apparent that there was no will to enforce it. Tribunals were willing to accept any pretext for a killing. Flambeau, Tytalus and others used their Hermetic magic and Parma to embark on a purge of traditions they disliked. Guernicus and his ﬁlii set out and recruited as many as possible (sending them to others for House sponsorship), but many were still slain. His last victory was in helping the Tytalus Prima Hariste prevent a war on Pralix’s ‘Order of Miscellany’. Trianoma negotiated the creation of House Ex Miscellanea and the Grand Tribunal agreed to it after a narrow vote. Guernicus’s last public appearance was at the Grand Tribunal of 817 AD. Against his strident objection the meeting passed the ruling instituting certamen as ‘decisive''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Polybius and the Order==

''Polybius (202-122 BC) was a Greek from Arcadia (a district of Greece). In his youth his was an ofﬁcer in the Achaean League, which sought to keep the Peloponnesus region independent of Rome. However, he was arrested and sent to Italy to await trial for conspiracy. Fortune smiled on him and he was befriended by an inﬂuential Roman family. With their patronage he became a respected historian. He witnessed the destruction of both Carthage and Corinth, in 146 B. C. and is credited with helping the Greeks accept the inevitability of Roman rule. Polybius made an insightful analysis of Roman government. He showed how its mix of monarchy, aristocracy and democracy helped prevent any of the three falling into corruption. Whereas a simpler form of government would quickly decay into a tyranny, oligarchy or mob rule, a balance of the three was more stable. Guernicus had read Polybius’s histories and argued the Order should follow a similarly mixed government. The three arms of the Order would be the Primi, Tribunals and the Quaesitores. The Quaesitores and the Tribunals would guard the Primi from tyranny. The Quaesitores and Primi would guard the Tribunals from mob rule. The Tribunals and the Primi would guard the Quaesitores from oligarchy.''

|}
''in all disputes’. Guernicus retreated to his Magvillus fortress, claiming the ruin of the Order was at hand. Rumor has it that Guernicus later foreswore his Arts and undertook a pilgrimage to Rome. When his Longevity Ritual failed, he refused all offers to enact another. Without Parma and with senility setting in, he shunned all contact with magi without the Gentle Gift. He claimed Parma hid magi’s true character from each other. These tales may have been a ruse; all that is publicly known is that Guernicus spent his ﬁnal years in seclusion at Magvillus, communicating only through his favored ﬁlius Fenicil.''
''Fenicil became Primus in 832 AD, but the fate of Guernicus was never revealed. Wild rumors suggested that Guernicus found a way to cheat both age and Twilight. They claim that he sleeps beneath the earth, waiting for the day the Order falls; just to witness his prediction with grim satisfaction.''

==Fenicil==

''The early years of Fenicil’s leadership were deﬁned by Tremere’s bid for domination. Hamstrung by the 817 AD ruling, the Quaesitores were spectators to its consequence, but Fenicil was not idle. In close partnership with the Diedne leadership, Fenicil continued Guernicus’s secret preparations for war. As Guernicus magi prepared to assassinate Tremere, and Diedne magi stood ready for a general conﬂict, the Sundering occurred. Relieved, the Guernicus and Diedne leaderships kept their aborted plans secret. Fenicil blamed the Order’s troubles on a lack of unifying tradition. The religious roots of the Mercurian and Druidic traditions had been dissolved in the secular universal magic theory. With the advent of House Ex Miscellanea, large numbers of wizards were joining the Order with even greater diversity. Fenicil and others feared that without a proper foundation the Order was not worthy of a wizard’s respect. Beginning before becoming Primus, Fenicil launched a ﬁfty-year campaign. He searched for knowledge of the most ancient magical groups, to ﬁnd a deeper foundation for the Order. This search led him back to the Egyptian Cult of Thoth and the writings of Hermes Trismegistus. His researches and those of his followers were fruitful. On the basis of this research, Fenicil declared the Order of Hermes to be a temporary manifestation of an eternal organization. This organization was fated to unify all wizards, and so they should submit to it. The Code of Hermes was similarly a manifestation of the ancient Codes that had governed earlier incarnations, not merely Guernicus’s pragmatism. Strict observance of the letter of the law was Fenicil’s mandate to his House and the Order. Although many magi raised their eyebrows at Fenicil’s announcements and commented wryly on his scholarship, no one opposed him. As time passed, more and more magi simply accepted Fenicil’s views as fact. Besides discovering evidence of previous magical orders, Fenicil gathered together as many Mercurian texts as he could ﬁnd or have copied. In addition, he found texts of ancient Egyptian, Greek and Babylonian rituals. Most of these rituals depended on a large and devoted following, not on the power of individuals. Working in secret his followers translated these rituals into a form they could learn and cast. Thanks to this work, the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Becoming a Quaesitor==

''Although no magus can enter House Guernicus unless apprenticed to a Guernicus master, other magi can become Quaesitors. In some Tribunals nonGuernicus Quaesitors are seen as essential to the maintenance of the Hermetic peace. Although the role requires a signiﬁcant commitment of time, such magi gain great respect in both their Tribunal and their own House. Promising candidates are monitored by local Quaesitors. Those that embark on successful independent investigations are most likely to be offered a Quaesitorial title. In essence a magus who wishes to become a Quaesitor needs to act as one. A candidate does not need a spotless record. Transgressions of ignorance, youthful misjudgment or reasonable legal disputes can be forgiven. Magi that show a general disrespect for the law are excluded. Candidates should show the sort of honorable good character expected of a Quaesitor. If recommended by a senior Quaesitor, a candidate is invited to Magvillus to meet the Primus. If the Primus is impressed, he will offer the magus Quaesitorial training. If the candidate accepts he is assigned to an experienced Quaesitor. The pair spends a number of years journeying between Tribunals responding to requests by overburdened Quaesitors. During this period the mentor grills the candidate on the Code, logical puzzles and other investigation skills. If the mentor is satisﬁed with the candidate’s performance he issues a favorable report to the Primus, who then bestows the title of Quaesitor. In game terms this gives the candidate training and exposure to, Code of Hermes, Hermes Lore, Awareness, Folk Ken and Intrigue. The mentor often teaches the candidate spells useful for investigations, although not yet the Quaesitorial spells (see below).''

|}
''Quaesitores have powerful, secret magic (see Fenicil’s Rituals for details). In addition to the ancient writings, Fenicil and his supporters brought a great many ancient magical artifacts to Magvillus. The powers of these objects were thoroughly investigated. Like the ritual magic Fenicil discovered and adapted, the Order as a whole has no idea what any of these items did or still do. It is rumored that one item has the power to scry on any magus in the Order without fear of detection. This was born of a gossip’s over-active imagination. However, it might be true; only the inner council of Magvillus knows for sure. The Fenicil collection may now be the most extensive source on ancient magics within the Order. However, the extent of the collection is known only to the inner coun''
''cil. All solicitations by Hermetic scholars to study or take copies of any text have been politely rejected.''

==Duresca Scrolls==

''In the l0th century, documents were discovered at the covenant of Duresca in Iberia. These documents appeared to be a set of letters written between Guernicus and his ﬁlii. Within this correspondence the secret agenda of House Guernicus was described; to dominate ﬁrst the Order and then the world. These letters became known as the Duresca scrolls and they caused quite a stir in the Order. The Duresca scrolls were presented at the next Iberian Tribunal, but they were ofﬁcially declared fraudulent and destroyed. As the ruling was based primarily on evidence given by the Presiding Quaesitor, this ruling did not satisfy everyone in the Order. Later in the l0th century, the purging of House Tytalus distracted the Order’s interest from the Duresca scrolls. A number of secret copies of the documents remain and occasionally a magus circulates new copies. The Quaesitores have little patience with such magi and charge them with endangering the Order by spreading known lies.''

==Schism War==

''As the conﬂict between House Tremere and Diedne slid towards open war, House Guernicus was in disarray. As skirmishes between Tremere and Diedne magi grew into outright battles, the Quaesitores knew they had lost control of the situation. Many Quaesitors thought that the two sides should be left to it, but the Guernicus Primus Antonius could not allow the complete breakdown in the rule of law to continue. The full council of Magvillus was summoned, including the Diedne representative. It was determined that there would be an emergency Grand Tribunal to resolve the crisis. All the Primi apart from those of Tremere and Diedne were to attend, as well as many high ranking magi from each Tribunal that could be found, with as many proxy sigils as could be gathered. House Tremere and Diedne would be represented solely by their Quaesitorial House representatives. Antonius had consistently made public his desire for a peaceful settlement of the crisis. He was trusted by the leaders of House Diedne and so they accepted the call. Word went out via the Presiding Quaesitors, the House representatives, and the Mercere. Members of the outer council used their enchanted devices to bring groups to the reception house outside Magvillus. Each''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Double Edged Sword==

''Fenicil intended his work to unify the Order, however not everyone used it for this goal. From its creation the Order was primarily a society of Latin wizards. Only two of the Founders were non-Latin, Diedne and Bjornaer. Of these two, House Diedne was by far the most powerful and numerous; it was in fact the most powerful House in the Order. This sat uneasily with many Latin magi. The unity and power of House Diedne was found particular irksome by magi of House Tremere, who coveted their position. House Diedne’s insular and secretive ways allowed others to foster hostility and distrust against it. They argued that the Order of Hermes was destined to be an Order of Greco-Roman wizards; Celtic wizardry was not part of this. House Diedne stubbornly refused to conform to the Latin tradition, so they had no right to be members and endangered the Order. By implication this argument applied to Bjornaer and most Ex Miscellanea magi, but Diedne was the ﬁrst target. So when Tremere magi made claims about House Diedne, they were readily believed by many. The Schism war killed off the most vocal agitators for a Latin-only Order. Most survivors had little stomach for another war anyway. However, in 1220 memories of the Schism have faded. With more and more non-Latin wizards joining House Ex Miscellanea, the dominance of the Latin traditions may seem under threat again. Perhaps the time is right for a new movement to purge the Order of non-Latin magi? This would be a real test for the Quaesitores. They failed suppress such zealots in the prelude to the ﬁrst Schism, can they prevent a second? Will the blood of House Bjornaer end up on House Guernicus’s hands?''

|}
''group was greeted by a heavy guard of experienced Hoplites and escorted to the meeting chamber. None were given casting tokens. Others arrived by their own means. Unfortunately the Ex Miscellanea Primus decided to travel mundanely. He set out with a great number of proxy sigils. These votes could have dramatically altered the cause of Order history, but he never arrived. At this meeting the war between Tremere and Diedne was debated. The Diedne and Tremere representatives stated their cases. The vote was close, but a majority voted to renounce House Diedne. The Diedne representative was restrained, but not killed by order of the Guernicus Primus; he had been given oaths guaranteeing his safety. He was to be kept prisoner at Magvillus indefinitely. Magi from many other Houses joined the battle, which became the Order against House Diedne. Even with this, the war hung in the balance. At times it seemed as if the Order would be defeated by House Diedne. Considering this possibility the inner Magvillus Council made a fateful decision. A ritual Fenicil had discovered offered a chance to deal House Diedne a crippling blow. However, the requirements of the ritual were abhorrent, a human sacriﬁce. House Tremere’s principle accusation against House Diedne was human sacrifice. The irony of House Guernicus performing that act in support of the war against Diedne was not lost on the council. Neither was the betrayal of the trust Diedne and Guernicus had shared. Still, the situation was dire and the decision was made. Antonius led the ritual and wielded the knife, murdering the Diedne representative. Shortly after there was a turn in House Diedne’s fortunes and most participants were convinced it was their doing. All the participants were sworn to utter secrecy. House Diedne fell, but House Guernicus rose stronger than ever. The Order had seen a general war between Hermetic magi and the destruction shocked everyone. The Quaesitores claimed that they could have prevented or ended the war earlier if they had had more authority and the traumatized Order gave them more; extending investigation immunity and the requirements for cooperation.''

==Traditionalists / Transitionalists==

''Under Guernicus’s inﬂuence the Code was framed to ensure the peace and the freedoms of individual magi. Guernicus constantly argued against any proposal that would unnecessarily restrict their freedoms or impose burdens. Therefore, traditionally there is great resistance to any proposal that would do so.''
''The ﬁrst rulings clarifying the Hermetic Oath were made before the formation of the regional and Grand Tribunals. The original Tribunal that made these clariﬁcations is now referred to as the First Tribunal. Traditionalist Quaesitors consider the Hermetic Oath and the clarifying rulings of the First Tribunal to be the foundation stones of the Order. Traditionally a Tribunal has authority to contradict its own rulings with new rulings (thereby amending or revoking old rulings), but not those of a higher Tribunal. Thus a regional Tribunal should not make rulings that conﬂict with Grand Tribunal or First Tribunal rulings. Traditionalists maintain that the Grand Tribunal should not make rulings that conﬂict with First Tribunal rulings; this was the ﬁnal ruling of the First Tribunal. Traditionally it is the duty of the Presiding Quaesitor and the Guernicus Primus to ensure this with their veto. In 1148 a well-respected Quaesitor, Simprim, began openly advocating that the Code be revised. To Simprim and his followers a law incapable of adaptation doomed the Order rather than helped preserve it. In a number of Tribunals the loss of vis sources and magic auras due to mundane encroachment was becoming an acute issue. In these Tribunals many magi felt the strict prohibition against mundane interference should be relaxed to allow the defense of magic resources. Simprim argued that if the Code demanded that magi sit idle as their magical resources were destroyed, they would be forced to defy it; lawlessness would follow. In addition, he claimed that the Order had outgrown Guernicus’s vision of a loose society of freemen. Simprim maintained that corruption had beset many local Tribunals and action against them was too difﬁcult under the existing system. The traditional rights of magi hindered investigations and trials too much. In times of gen''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Tribunals==

''Originally there was only one Tribunal in the Order. However, in 773 AD this Tribunal constituted the regional Tribunals and the Grand Tribunal. Scholars of the Code of Hermes refer to the original Tribunal as the First Tribunal. The First Tribunal met in 767 AD to form the Order and in 773 AD to form the regional Tribunals and the Grand Tribunal. The distinction between the First Tribunal and the Grand Tribunal is a legally important one. However, this importance is lost on many magi. It is common practice to count the meetings of the Grand Tribunal from the earliest First Tribunal, rather than the meeting of 799 AD. Quaesitors who take issue with this are often accused of semantic pedantry.''

|}
''eral conﬂict, a Tribunal meeting every seven years was simply inadequate to keep the peace; a new schism was inevitable. Simprim suggested more powers be given to the Quaesitores and Tribunals. He called for the Grand Tribunal to have the authority to amend the First Tribunal rulings as it desired and that local Tribunals be given reasonable scope to set policies on mundane interference. Once instituted he suggested the following powers be given to the Quaesitores:''
'' That Quaesitors be given the right to arrest and interrogate suspects by Mentem magic.  That Quaesitors and their agents to be given to right to enter sanctums without suffering forfeit immunity.  A revised system for trials, which would allow crimes to be heard outside of a full Tribunal meeting.''
''Some Quaesitors, mostly younger ones, came to agree with Simprim, at least partially. With this split of opinion, the Traditionalists and the Transitionalists were formed. Traditionalists held that such changes undermine the founding principles of the Order. To them the Order existed to allow magi the freedom to study in peace and security, not to impose its will on magi. Traditionalists claimed that once the Pandora’s box of the Code was''
''opened, the Order would slide into chaos and tyranny. Transitionalists dismissed such concerns as scare mongering. For the ﬁrst time in the history of House Guernicus, there was a noticeable division within the House. When the last Primus, Arliandus, passed into Final Twilight, the Traditionalists lost a good deal of power. He had led the Traditionalist faction, a role now ﬁlled by his ﬁlius Jart. With the appointment of Bilera to Prima, much of the heat has been taken from the debate. Bilera is tolerant to both views and has encouraged both sides to step back from open abuse of the other side. In an early speech to the council, Bilera pointed out that the debate between Traditionalists and Transitionalists will be won or lost in the Order at large, not within House Guernicus. She urged Quaesitors not to forget that they only have one vote, as all other magi do. While the majority of the Order still holds the First Tribunal rulings inviolate, the Transitionalists will never see their vision a reality, and if the majority want change all the Traditionalists can do is delay it. Traditionalists and Transitionalists now take their arguments to the rest of the Order.''

==Organization==

''Although dedicated to the law, House Guernicus imposes no rigid control on its members. In general Guernicus magi are never ordered to do anything; any directive is in the form of a request.''

==Population==

''There are ninety-eight Guernicus magi in the Order and about thirteen apprentices. Tribunals have, on average, eight Guernicus magi and one Guernicus apprentice in training at any one time. Of this number, perhaps ninety are Quaesitors in good standing (see below). On average a Tribunal will have three non-Guernicus Quaesitors. Therefore an average Tribunal will have eleven or twelve Quaesitors available to share the work of investigations, arbitrations etc. Of course, no Tribunal is average and the Magvillus Council assigns new Quaesitors to Tribunals based on perceived need. So the exact numbers in a Tribunal are for individual sagas to determine.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Lore of the Order: Transitionalist==

''“As Quaesitors of the Order, we carry a heavy burden. It is our duty to judge our brethren, always trying our best to be fair and impartial in all we decide. Fortunately, we have a great tool to aid us in this task — the Code of Hermes — carefully handed down to us from the original rulings to the most recent decisions of the Grand Tribunal. For ages we have made our decisions based upon strict interpretations of these rulings, and this always seemed enough. “Now I must most humbly suggest this is no longer the case. The world has changed dramatically in the past centuries. Many of the First Tribunal rulings have become outdated. It has become clear to many of us within the Quaesitores that any law or tradition incapable of changing is a burden rather than a blessing. The time has come to accept new ideas, to again use the Code as a tool to help magi, not to bind them or deny them justice. In the coming years, we must begin to interpret the Oath in ways appropriate to changing times. If we do not, I fear we shall slowly die, a victim of stagnant decline, much like the empire that ruled this peninsula a millennium ago.”''
''— Simprim of House Guernicus, speech to the inner council of Magvillus''

|}

==Domus Magna==

''The domus magna of House Guernicus is Magvillus, in the Roman Tribunal. It lies on the southern portion of the Apennine mountain range in the Kingdom of Sicily. Magvillus is located on a peak around nine miles north of the town of Potenza. This highly secretive covenant has nothing to do with local Hermetic politics, except through normal legal channels. Unless invited, only Quaesitors and Recaps are allowed in. Magi turning up at the gate will be given shelter in the reception house outside the walls while their request is considered. The inner buildings are strictly for Guernicus magi only. Born from the pessimism of Guernicus, the defenses of Magvillus are extreme. Its remote mountain location and defensible position alone would make it virtually invulnerable to mundane attack. However, the fortress was conjured from bedrock of solid granite; its tall seamless construction is clearly not the work of human hands. Even if Magvillus was located on level ground, it would challenge the best siege engines of the day. Magvillus’s water is supplied magically and has enough magically preserved food to last years. It boasts three defensive walls; the three wards. The outer ward houses the buildings in which guests are quartered and meetings of the full council held, with the law library at hand. The middle ward houses the covenfolk. The inner ward encircles the main keep, into which only Guernicus magi are ever permitted and then only by invitation of the inner council. This keep gives access to the inner council chamber, the library of Fenicil and the chambers on which his rituals depend. The presence of such a fortress has of course been noted by the local nobility. However, as its masters have taken no part in local politics since the structure’s miraculous appearance four hundred years ago, they now pay it no mind. In the past, messengers were sent to the site with demands of suzerainty. All received the same reply; come and take it if you can. From Charlemagne on, no noble has yet been ill-advised enough to try. The power of Magvillus’s Aegis of the Hearth ritual is a secret, but it is commonly thought to be around the tenth magnitude. In times of conﬂict it is rumored that an Aegis of ﬁfteenth magnitude is available. The towers of the Magvillus fortress are thought to contain a number of ancient artifacts found by Fenicil; what these do is unknown to all but the inner council. In addition to the structures above ground, the keep gives access to many vast underground chambers; also covered by the Aegis of the Hearth. Even if the fortress was breached, the defenders can retreat into these highly defensible structures.''
''During the four centuries of its existence, Magvillus has acquired many items of Hermetic enchantment. The turb of Magvillus has access to many enchanted weapons and suits of armor. The elite guard carries potent enchanted devices, capable of penetrating the Parma of many magi. Perhaps the most impressive Hermetic enchantments are the automata, provided by Verditius Quaesitors. Beyond this, the entire mountain on which it is perched is thought to be the home to many powerful earth elementals; allies of Guernicus and still loyal to his heirs. Even during the Schism War, Magvillus was never assaulted and so the actual efﬁcacy of its defenses remains untested. Within the fortress there is a small chapel to serve the spiritual needs of the magi and grogs. It is dedicated to Nicholas of Myra, known for generosity to the poor, protector of the innocent and wronged. He raised to life three young boys who had been murdered and pickled in a barrel of brine to hide the crime. The altar of the chapel houses a shard of this barrel. Within the chapel a strong Divine aura overcomes the site’s magical aura. However, this does not extend outside (normally at least).''

==Prima==

''The current Primus is the Archmage Bilera. She was chosen for both her record and her apparent neutrality in the Traditionalist/Transitionalist debate. In many ways Bilera is the archetypical Guernicus Primus. Before taking ofﬁce her life was one of quiet service to the Order. Bilera’s magical interest lies in horticulture and the architecture of gardens. By careful cultivation''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Imperfect Defense==

''For the two hours prior to sunrise on Good Friday, a strong Divine aura envelops the entire Magvillus fortress and the Aegis of the Health is suppressed. This may correspond to the trial of Jesus by the Sanhedrin. Guernicus thought it was God’s reminder to House Guernicus of the fallibility of human justice. This is a great secret, known only to members of the inner council. Initially the council considered moving the chapel outside the fortress, but Guernicus urged the council to accept God’s test of their faith (there was no knowing if it would have worked in any case). Although would-be attackers might win the battle if they attacked at this time, what fate would they suffer on Easter day, when the victories of evil were undone?''

|}
''and arrangement in a magical aura, Bilera has managed to create gardens of surpassing beauty that also yield a regular (if usually modest) harvest of vis. Before becoming Primus, Bilera would travel throughout the Order looking for suitable sites for her gardens. If a covenant agreed, she would both plant a garden and tutor a magus in its maintenance. To Bilera, the pleasure of creating a new garden was its own reward, but she also takes tithes from each that produces vis. Many of her investigations began while working on these gardens. Her ability to unravel the most complex intrigues was not widely noted at ﬁrst. Her small frame and soft-spoken manner led many to underestimate her. In actuality she was shrewd and sharp-eyed with an intuitive acumen second to none. With her keen insight, Bilera seldom had any need to resort to magical methods. Even after exposure, Bilera would lead the effort for a swift and discreet private settlement. Thus many of her most successful cases passed unnoted. Bilera never did anything to advertise her accomplishments and her itinerant lifestyle led many to think she was not even an active Quaesitor. Age only added to her disarming appearance. Even her Archmagus status was obtained in a quiet fashion; having been invited to take the challenge. However, Bilera came to public attention for uncovering a number of diabolists, both in Rome, Iberia and Transylvania. Once her name became common currency, tales of her many previous notable deeds propagated. When the Magvillus Council ordered the settlement records of each Tribunal checked, the extent of her contribution to the Order became evident. At the time of Arliandus’s Final Twilight, the candidate successors were all strongly aligned to either the Traditionalist or Transitionalist factions. She was persuaded to stand to help heal the rift. In 1220 AD her main concern is to manage any change in her House towards the best possible outcome. This focuses on the internal split between Traditionalists and the Transitionalists. If anyone can achieve this, Bilera has a good chance. At Magvillus she has begun her most challenging project yet. Her mountain garden of shrubs and ﬂowers is not yet complete, but in a few years it may rival the best in the Order.''

==The Magvillus Council==

''House Guernicus is ruled by the consensus of the Magvillus Council. There are two tiers to the Magvillus Council, the inner and outer. The inner tier consists of six Guernicus magi, plus the Primus. The outer tier consists of a non-Guernicus Quaesitor from each of the other Houses and the Presiding Quaesitor from each regional''
''Tribunal. A member of the inner council is usually the Presiding Quaesitor of the Rome Tribunal; the Primus only presides at the Grand Tribunal. Thus the outer tier consists of twenty-four magi. It should be noted that a number of the Presiding Quaesitors may well be nonGuernicus magi, but speciﬁc House representatives must still be nominated by the inner Council. The inner tier resides at Magvillus with the Primus. Members of the outer tier are not residents, but are provided with invested devices capable of transporting them and companions, to a reception house outside the Magvillus fortress. This device includes a signal effect to inform the member of a meeting and another that destroys the device, both can be remotely activated by the Guernicus Primus. These devices are used as casting tokens for Magvillus’s Aegis of the Hearth ritual. The full council thus consists of thirty-one magi, including the Primus. The inner tier only governs the internal business of House Guernicus. For all other matters the full council sits in judgment. An attendance of twenty-one is considered quorum. The Primus chairs the meeting and sets the order of business. If the Primus is unavailable, the eldest member of the inner tier chairs the meeting. Any member can propose a topic of discussion and decisions are made by a simple majority. The Primus is then charged with implementing the will of the council. Membership of the inner council is by invitation of existing members. The inner tier is appointed for life. The new Primus is chosen by the full council and can be dismissed by the full council, although this has never happened.''

==Assignments==

''Newly gauntleted Guernicus magi are voluntarily assigned to Tribunals based on need. The Primus writes to prospective covenants on the new Quaesitor’s behalf, requesting membership. Although it is within their rights to refuse, few covenants do so lightly. New Quaesitors accepting this assignment are looked on favorably by other Quaesitors, but they are free to seek covenants for themselves if they wish. Having a Quaesitor in a covenant is a mixed blessing. In conﬂicts with mundanes and other magi, a Quaesitor will seldom condone actions that step outside the law. However, they will pursue investigations against illegal activities against their own covenant with particular vigor. Young Quaesitors are often placed with spring covenants in areas where older covenants are known to be hostile.''

==The Code of Hermes==

''The following section relates to a generally agreed interpretation of the Code. These basic interpretations were formed from the First Tribunal rulings. Traditionalists accept that they can be further clariﬁed and expanded by later Tribunal rulings, but wish to maintain this core. A Transitionalist sees these interpretations as subject to fundamental revision by collective agreement, both generally and on a case-by-case basis. More radical Transitionalists believe the Oath itself should be subject to revision and an entirely new Code written.''

==Origins==

''When Guernicus decided what legal system the Order should adopt, most thought of Roman law. However, Guernicus dismissed the suggestion. Magi had been lawless barbarians for three hundred years; a barbarian law was the best that could be hope for. Thus''
''Guernicus took the Germanic and Nordic tribal laws and re-cast them to suit the Order.''

==Forfeit Immunity==

''The key form of defense from Hermetic charges is to claim the victim had forfeited their immunity. Normally a magus is under the protected of the law. In other words he is immune to attack. However, in certain circumstances he might step outside the protection of Hermetic Law, either partially or totally. Wizard War is one example of this. A combatant in a Wizard War is not legally protected against attacks from the other combatant (or combatants). This lack of legal protection is called forfeit immunity. A magus is also under forfeit immunity while committing, preparing to commit, or shortly after committing a crime. By his criminal act his legal protection is forfeit. While forfeit other magi may act against him, but the response should be proportional. As with most aspects of Hermetic Law, forfeit''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Law in Your Saga==

''For readability and brevity the following section mostly describes how Traditionalist Quaesitors would like Tribunals to interpret the Code. Whether magi of a Tribunal generally accept this interpretation or respect the Code at all is an open question. How lawful or lawless the Order is rests entirely at the discretion of troupes. In some, the Order may barely exist as an organization, with all Tribunals chaotic and their decisions dictated by the most powerful groups even on criminal matters. In others the law will show neither fear nor favor, with hedge wizards receiving equal legal protection with Archmagi. In some there will only be the Oath and personal judgment. Others will have formally written laws, with magi ﬁghting cases over technicalities and wording like modern lawyers. How strong the Traditionalists or Transitionalists are has also been left an open question. Individual troupes should come to their own decision. In some sagas, Transitionalists will be a small fringe group, looked upon as misguided but so marginalized that they are unthreatening. In others they will have already instituted their proposals in many Tribunals and will be pressing the Grand Tribunal. How uniform the Order is in its organization is also open. Within the same saga different Tribunals may cross the spectrum on all axes.''

|}
''immunity is a matter of degree. In some cases a response may be seen as justiﬁed and in others it will not. Thus a magus may claim his attack on another magus was legal, as the victim’s immunity was forfeit at the time. The Tribunal will weigh up any claim of forfeit immunity in the light of the actions of both parties.''

==The Hermetic Oath==

''The following sections give a commentary on the Hermetic Oath, explaining the Traditionalist interpretation. Although derived from the First Tribunal rulings, for the sake of readability and clarity the rulings themselves are not given; rather, a condensed synthesis of them is presented. In any case, in most sagas rulings will not be in the form of carefully worded statutes. Rather, rulings are raw accounts of the whole case and so they require more or less judgment to apply to a new one. There may be any number of books that record these rulings, but none are authoritative books of law. The Presiding Quaesitor is the authority on the Code, judging First and Grand Tribunal rulings against the case at hand. However, most of these rulings are fairly plain and the consensus on them is extremely tight, particular those of the First Tribunal. As a general guide, it is the spirit of the Code that is important and this is presented below.''

==High and Low Crimes==

''A clear and direct breach of the Code is designated a high crimes. These are:''
'' Deprivation of Magical Power  Slaying a Magus  Failure to Abide by Tribunal Decisions*  Abuse of Voting Rights  Endangering the Order  Interfering with Mundanes  Dealing with Devils  Molesting the Fay  Scrying on Members of the Order  Failure to Perform the Duties of a Parens  Failure to Respect the Rights of Bonisagus (nonBonisagus only)  Failure to Share Knowledge (Bonisagus only)  Attacking an Ally of the Order  Aiding an Enemy of the Order''
''* One directly made against the magus.''
''A detailed discussion on each of these potential offenses is given below. If the case is a high crime, the prosecution can call for a Wizard’s March, otherwise he cannot. Tribunals always have discretion to set a penalty they ﬁnd appropriate, but to call a Wizard’s March it must be a high crime. All other offenses are low crimes. The magus can still be Marched if they refuse to abide by the Tribunal ruling made against them, as this is a high crime. Thus, if a magus fails to agree to the punishment, he faces a March.''

===Deprivation of Magical Power===

'' “I will not deprive nor attempt to deprive a member of their magical power.”''
''Any act that detrimentally affects a magus’s ability to use, practice or study magic is illegal. The most serious violation would involve the destruction or maiming of another’s Gift. Any physical injury that restricts the ability to speak, gesture or general mobility is serious. A magus’s magical property is also considered part of his magical power. Vis, vis sources, magical sites, invested devices, familiars, apprentices, books and lab equipment are all protected under this provision. Beyond this, a covenant’s mundane resources, including personnel, are also protected to a degree as these are required for study. However, attacks on mundane assets are normally brought as low crimes (see below).''

===Slaying===

'' “I will not slay, nor attempt to slay a member of the Order, except in a properly declared Wizard War.”''
''Although a very clear provision, there are situations that give magi a valid defense. If the other magus was engaged or preparing to engage in an act that seriously threatened another’s life, magic or covenant, forfeit immunity can be claimed. The defendant will need to convince the Tribunal of this. If there was some justiﬁcation, but not sufﬁcient for an acquittal, the Presiding Quaesitor normally make up the difference with the punishment. A magus who slays another (outside a Wizard’s March or War) must always come before the Tribunal for judgment. In some cases this is a formality, but it ensures the entire Tribunal is fully informed and involved in the process. By an early First Tribunal ruling, being within another’s sanctum automatically confers forfeit immunity with''
''respect to the owner of the sanctum. In this circumstance the sanctum owner can make lethal attacks legally, but any aggressive response by the intruder is usually illegal. Petty spells or petty physical attacks are insufﬁcient to justify a lethal response. However, casting humiliating magics on other magi or physically assaulting them is clearly provocative and goes to mitigation. In the case of an exchange that becomes lethal, the Tribunal will judge according to the details. A.A 1023 (A.D. 884), Rome Tribunal Gravis of House Flambeau was charged with slaying Talus of House Merinita. Gravis claimed forfeit immunity as Talus had cast a spell on him. Renowned for his practical jokes, Talus had cast a spell that made Gravis’s voice sound like a little girl’s, to the great mirth of all others present. Gravis responded with a Ball of Abyssal Flame, which slew Talus. As Talus’s spell was clearly not a threat to Gravis’s life or magic the Tribunal found him guilty, but due to the clear provocation refrained from calling a Wizard’s March. Gravis was punished by the death of his familiar. A.A. 1030 (A.D. 891), Rome Tribunal Dominicus of House Jerbiton was charged with the slaying of Gravis of House Flambeau. Dominicus claimed forfeit immunity applied. Gravis had thrown a Ball of Abyssal Flame at him after a council discussion had become ‘heated’. Witnesses testiﬁed that Gravis had made the ﬁrst attack, with only verbal provocation. Although his Parma was penetrated, Dominicus was barely injured and replied with Clenching Hand of the Crushed Heart, instantly slaying Gravis. A member of Dominicus’s covenant claimed that''
''Dominicus, an amicus of Talus, had taken a powerful potion that morning. This potion made his ﬂesh impervious to ﬁre; he then orchestrated the confrontation. Dominicus did not dispute this, but maintained that Gravis had attempted to kill him, forfeiting his immunity. The Presiding Quaesitor pronounced that Dominicus’s intention did not excuse Gravis’s action and he was acquitted. However, Dominicus was later convicted of breaching his covenant charter and was exiled from the Tribunal.''

===Wizard War===

'' “I understand that a Wizard War is an open conﬂict between two magi, who may slay each other without breaking this oath, and that should I be slain in a Wizard War no retribution shall fall on the magus who slays me.”''
''For a fee, a Redcap can ensure the declaration of war is delivered within the appropriate time. He then reports back the successful delivery to the sender. This Redcap also acts as a legal witness to the declaration. This means that hostile magi do not meet each other beforehand and ensures there is no dispute over the legality of the declaration. This procedure is not considered a core interpretation of the Code and so some Tribunals may have more elaborate procedures. The core interpretation is that the recipient of the declaration has a lunar mouth to prepare and then the war lasts for a lunar month. During a Wizard War both parties can attack each other’s life and property without fear of prosecution. However, they still may be held to account for any collateral damage. A magus cannot legally attack property in which his opponent has shared ownership, such as covenant buildings, vis sites and covenant books. If a combatant endangers the property or lives of other magi, they forfeit their immunity with respect to those magi. Many covenant sodales are extremely quick to exploit such an opportunity. A combatant is free to enter his opponent’s sanctum and destroy its contents. Any shared property stored there during a Wizard War is considered forfeit. However, destroying the whole building would give good grounds to claim forfeit immunity. The prohibition against retribution is interpreted as complete legal immunity from charges for the slaying. It also forbids other magi from persecuting the victor for the slaying. However, this immunity is granted in all Wizard Wars. In general, a magus cannot be prosecuted for declaring Wizard War. However, in one extreme case this has been challenged. The Rhine Tribunal charged the magus Hernis''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Amici==

''Most magi have no contact with their mundane family. Many have weak emotional ties to parentes and magical siblings. In response, magi frequently develop strong friendships with other magi, usually covenant sodales. Magi who are particularly close swear an oath of friendship. These magi then refer to each other as amicus (friend). In Hermetic society this implies a strong moral (not legal) duty to support the other. This bond is often more reliable than the bonds of lineage and House. If there is a need to avenge an amicus, the magus is not expected to break the law or throw his life away on a gesture, but the duty to avenge never expires. Payback can occur decades later. Before declaring a Wizard War, a wise magus considers who their opponent’s amici are and how close they are to parens, ﬁlii or mystae. Extended bloody feuds are not unknown in some Tribunals.''

|}
''with endangering the Order by excessive and unjustiﬁed use of Wizard War. By calculated use of Wizard War he sought to achieve political domination of the Tribunal through terror. The Presiding Quaesitor pronounced that if Hernis’s actions had endangered the Order, this would not be covered by the Wizard War immunity. The Tribunal found Hernis guilty of endangering the Order. Hernis refused to cooperate with the Tribunal and so they had only one course available. A group of powerful magi hunted Hernis down; two were slain in the process. This case is still seen as exceptional. A.A. 1037 (A.D. 898), Normandy Tribunal Dominicus of House Jerbiton was charged with seeking retribution after an amicus of his was slain in a Wizard War, by declaring Wizard War on the victor. Dominicus claimed the charge was invalid, as it sought retribution for his own Wizard War and the Code protected him from such charges. The Presiding Quaesitor pointed out that founder Flambeau proposed this provision of the Code for the express purpose of seeking vengeance; therefore the defense was sound. On this advice, the Tribunal acquitted him.''

===Abide By Tribunal Decisions===

'' “I will abide by the decisions made by fair vote at Tribunal.”''
''Magi are obliged to abide by the rulings of Tribunals. The rulings of a regional Tribunal only apply to residents or visitors to the Tribunal. If a non-resident is eligible to be brought before a Tribunal, its rulings can be applied. First and Grand Tribunal rulings can be applied in any Tribunal. A regional Tribunal cannot rule in contradiction to First and Grand Tribunal rulings. Traditionalists maintain that even Grand Tribunal rulings should not conﬂict directly with the Hermetic Oath or the First Tribunal rulings. For instance, the Grand Tribunal should not forbid Wizard Wars, restrict or extend voting rights, demand vis or require services that impact on magical study (unless part of a punishment). However, regional or Grand Tribunals can create other provisions, like restricting the magical production of silver or how many ofﬁcial sanctums a magus may have. For the most part the Grand Tribunal does not try to deﬁne every detail of Hermetic life. Local Tribunals are left with great control over important details like property and inheritance law. They also have a good deal of scope in interpreting Grand Tribunal rulings. A Presiding Quaesitor will only step in with a veto (see below) if the Tribunal is clearly and unambiguously conﬂicting with any reasonable interpretation of the Oath, First or Grand Tribunal ruling. By these local rulings, a great deal of variation exists between Tribunals.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Proxy Voting==

''A magus’s right to vote holds even if they do not attend. A magus can give his sigil to an attending magus who agrees to act as proxy. In order to be legal the proxy needs to cast the vote according to the will of the owner. This is done in two principle ways. A directed proxy involves the sigil owner composing a list of voting directions. Most magi ﬁnd exercising a proxy like this tedious and a little demeaning. Usually Redcaps are paid to act as directed proxies. A free proxy involves the sigil owner declaring that it is his will that his vote be cast with the proxy’s. Magi are normally happy to act as proxies on this basis. Alternatively the proxy may be a mixture of directed and free. Many magi will accept a proxy with one or two directions. After the Tribunal the proxy is required to detail how he used the owner’s sigil. On a directed proxy this should match the instructions. Not following the instructions is a high crime. On a free proxy the owner can disown any decisions he does not agree with. This divests the owner of legal responsibility for the vote, but is very insulting to the proxy holder. The Tremere practice of holding the sigils of ﬁlii is a free proxy. Therefore under Hermetic Law the decision of a Tremere magus to make his parens (or whomever) his proxy is entirely legal. In principle a Tremere magus can demand his sigil back at any time. However, membership of House Tremere is not a Hermetic right and the leadership of the House can cast out any member they choose for whatever reason. Therefore, Tremere magi who demand their sigil’s return are effectively leaving the House. Of course, a magus can only proxy his vote to be used in his residential Tribunal or the Grand Tribunal. This applies equally to Tremere magi. A.A. 912 (A.D. 773), Durenmar The founder Tremere was accused of failing to respect the votes of others by demanding the control of the sigils of his ﬁlii. In his defense Tremere’s ﬁlii testiﬁed that their choice of proxy was out of respect for their parens and that it was their right to do this. The Tribunal found in Tremere’s favor, but reafﬁrmed that Tremere magi have the right to reclaim their sigils at any time. Tremere added that members of his House were respectful of their parentes and so no worthy member would feel the need to reclaim their sigil before it was the will of their parens.''

|}
''Regional Tribunals can revise or reverse their own rulings at they please. However, most are inherently conservative and require compelling arguments to clearly contradict earlier decisions. A Tribunal that regularly makes contradictory rulings opens itself to the derision of neighboring Tribunals and admonishment by their Presiding Quaesitor. However, occasional changes to local provisions are expected. All rulings should is some way relate back to a provision of the Oath. In essence all rulings should simply clarify, expand or embellish the Oath. By these Tribunal rulings the Peripheral Code is formed (see page 54).''

===Voting Rights===

'' “I will have one vote at Tribunal and I will use it prudently. I will respect as equal the votes of all others at Tribunal.”''
''Originally there was only one Tribunal in the Order; now known as the First Tribunal. As the Order expanded the need for regional Tribunals grew apparent. In 773 AD the Order reorganized itself into a number of regional Tribunals, with a Grand Tribunal to ensure the overall unity of the Order. The term Tribunal, as used in the Oath, is now interpreted to apply to the Grand Tribunal and each magus’s residential Tribunal. Each regional Tribunal needs to be ofﬁcially recognized by the Grand Tribunal before it is valid. Each magus must have a single Tribunal of residence. A magus’s ﬁrst residential Tribunal is the one in which his ceremony of initiation took place. Magi can change their residency by presenting themselves to the region’s Presiding Quaesitor at the next Tribunal meeting. The Presiding Quaesitor must be convinced that the magus is a genuine resident. Most Tribunals impose some formal residency requirements, sometimes in an attempt to restrict the Hermetic population. These are often linked to membership of a covenant recognized by the Tribunal. For most Tribunals, the key requirement is the ability to be contacted by the region’s Mercere. If a case against a magus needs to be published (see below), the Mercere should be able to deliver the notiﬁcation in good time for the Tribunal meeting. This is the one of the primary reasons for an ofﬁcial residency. Magi who wander between Tribunals still need an ofﬁcial residence. It is their responsibility to maintain enough contact with the Mercere to ensure they are informed about cases against them. Tribunal borders are often vague. For instance, magi of a covenant near the border between England and Scotland might declare for either Stonehenge or Loch''
''Leglean. Most Quaesitors supports this freedom and oppose moves for strict border deﬁnitions. If a Tribunal has residency requirements, a magus can fall delinquent of them; this is for the Presiding Quaesitor to judge and declare. Such a magus has seven years to meet the requirements or join another Tribunal. If he does not he can be charged with vagrancy (see below). This section guarantees all magi the right cast their single vote, according to their will, on all issues brought before their residential Tribunal and the Grand Tribunal. Implicit in this is the right to attend, although the Praeco can exclude magi who misbehave. Theoretically every magus has the right to attend the Grand Tribunal, but virtually all choose to free proxy (see the insert) their vote to representatives. The journey to Durenmar is often long''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vagrancy==

''Social pressure and threats of Wizard War aside, the only power backing up the authority of a Primus is the ability to expel members. By a First Tribunal ruling, magi are legally required to have a House. House vagrancy can therefore lead to a Wizard’s March. In order to prevent Primi becoming tyrants, the ability to move House is legally possible, but not guaranteed. Most magi are very proud of their House and would only consider leaving in the most extreme circumstances. Individual Houses have different expectations of how demanding a Primus should be. Only if those expectations are grossly exceeded might a Primus risk mass desertion. Magi who renounce their House membership or are expelled have one year to obtain membership in another. After this period they can be charged with vagrancy. This is low crime and the Presiding Quaesitor demands the magus ﬁnd another House before the next Tribunal. Failure to comply with a Tribunal judgment is a high crime and can result in a Wizard’s March. Magi can enter a new House through a sponsor. Members of true lineages never offer such sponsorship, but others might. The Primus has the right to veto admissions, but ﬁnding a sponsor is usually enough to gain entrance. If no other House will accept them, Ex Miscellanea will normally do so. In many Tribunals, vagrants are simply assumed to have joined House Ex Miscellanea if they fail to ﬁnd a more respectable one within a year. Magi can also be charged with vagrancy if they are without a residential Tribunal or residing in a Tribunal without meeting its residency requirements. Anyone can bring a vagrancy case.''

|}
''and few magi care to attend simply as voting observers. Magi can pay a Redcap to be a directed proxy, but this is expensive. Although the Tribunal chamber at Durenmar only seats a hundred and twenty, in practice this has always been sufﬁcient. The provision also demands that magi use their vote prudently. Traditionalists interpret this as a duty to vote strictly according to an honest legal judgment. Voting to convict or acquit against a magus’s better legal judgment is a high crime. Anyone exposed as having accepted a bribe or other deal for his vote may be charged. The rigor with which this provision is enforced varies greatly. Even in strict Tribunals, corruption can still happen. Allies tend to vote for allies and enemies tend to vote against enemies. The strength of the prosecution or defense is normally a factor. If a magus cannot manage a remotely reasonable defense, even their closest ally might not feel able to vote to acquit. On the other hand, if there is some arguable merit in the defense a vote to acquit can be given without worry.''
''A magus can always choose to abstain if he wishes and magi are free to trade votes as they please outside of criminal cases.''

===Endangerment===

'' “I will not endanger the Order through my actions.”''
''This is the most fundamental provision. Any act which risks the peace and security of other magi can be used to justify a charge. This provision is generally held as the most important, thus it can in extreme cases be used to justify contradicting another provision. However, this judgment is normally made only by a Tribunal, with the Presiding Quaesitor vetoing any abuse of the principle. A defendant might claim the endangerment was trivial or only personal. The prosecution needs to show that magi other than the defendant were endangered.''
''Early in the Order’s history magi of the Rhine Tribunal began perverting the intention of proxy voting to acquire multiple votes. By agreement, an elder magus would grant proxy rights to another whenever they were not present at Tribunal and allow the proxy to transfer these rights as they wished. When the elder magus passed into Final Twilight or otherwise disappeared, his passing would not be recognized or reported. By this means extra votes began to accumulate within the elder ranks of Rhine magi. By the time this practice came to the attention of the region’s Quaesitors, the Rhine’s elder magi had already established a signiﬁcant advantage. They also secured the support of younger magi by offering possession of one or more of these votes. Initially the Quaesitores brought charges of vagrancy against the sigil ghosts (as they called them). The sigil ghosts could neither defend their case nor legally appoint an advocate. Their failure to defend the case was clear evidence for the prosecution. However, the Rhine Tribunal voted to acquit them anyway. The prosecution principles faced considerable hostility and a number were driven from the Tribunal with threats of Wizard War. The Magvillus Council judged that ending the practice at regional level was not possible at that time; the Grand Tribunal was required. At the time the Rhine was still seen as the heart of the Order. If the Quaesitores had forced the issue to Grand Tribunal they faced possible defeat, leading to the practice being legalized Order-wide.''
''The Magvillus Council decided to contain the problem. Presiding Quaesitors outside the Rhine are now extremely watchful. If the Presiding Quaesitor suspects that a sigil might belong to a magus who has passed on, he will quiz the proxy holder. If the Presiding Quaesitor is unconvinced he will hold the absent magus a non-resident. If the magus in question is alive, he needs to prove it by attending next time. It is theoretically possible that a magus could ﬁnd himself unable to attend Tribunal for an extended period of time, appoint a proxy in anticipation of this, and be ruled non-resident by the Presiding Quaesitor. In such a situation, the magus would have a strong case for claiming that the Presiding Quaesitor had committed a high crime by depriving him of his vote. The Quaesitores are well aware of this, and are very careful about ruling magi non-resident. Many Quaesitors believe the time may be right to bring the Rhine Tribunal into line; it no longer enjoys the reverence it once had with the rest of the Order. However, the Magvillus Council is waiting for a signiﬁcant number of Rhine magi to publicly object to the corrupt voting practice. If the majority of the Rhine magi are happy with the status quo, the Magvillus Council will leave them to it. However, if the Council thought a majority wished to free itself of the corruption, the Quaesitores would act quickly. The continuation of the Rhine corruption therefore depends on the majority of Rhine magi accepting it.''

==The Rhine Corruption==

''Intention on behalf of the defendant is important in mitigation, as is any negligence or recklessness. If convicted, the penalty will take account of both the culpability of the defendant and the degree of endangerment.''

===Mundane Interference===

'' “I will not interfere with the affairs of mundanes and thereby bring ruin upon my sodales”''
''The majority of the Founders wished to avoid entanglement in mundane conﬂicts. Therefore magi are forbidden from signiﬁcant involvement in mundane politics, whether of the nobility or the Church. In particular magi need to avoid supporting one faction of mundanes against another. Such support is likely to encourage the other side to seek similar aid. If such requests are refused it may result in hostility, forcing magi to defend themselves. Hermetic magic is not the only type of magic in Mythic Europe and so even highly secretive assistance may be discovered. Regardless of the Order’s capacity to defend itself, most magi wish to quietly pursue their Arts, not govern kingdoms and ﬁght in endless wars. The Order wishes to maintain strict neutrality in mundane politics and any act that undermines this may be an offense. Conﬂict may arise directly between a magus and a particular noble or clergyman. As long as the magus does not form an alliance with his enemy’s rivals he will not be in breach of this provision. However, he can still be charged with endangering the Order if his actions bring wrath down on other magi. Over this provision there is much debate both within the Order and House Guernicus. In some Tribunals it is virtually ignored, and on this issue much of the Traditionalist/Transitionalist disagreement occurs. The Transitionalists argue that provision is already effectively unenforceable; it should be recast to suit the times. A new provision could be enforced, the abuses punished and the benign activities legalized. In the current situation both are ignored. Traditionalists disagree, of course.''

===Deals With Devils===

'' “I will not deal with devils, lest I imperil my soul and the souls of my sodales as well.”''
''This provision is the most strictly enforced of all high crimes. Magi are absolutely forbidden from knowingly making an agreement with an infernal agent. The infernal is seen as the greatest threat to the security of the Order. Even the most seemingly benign agree''
''ments will almost certainly result in a Wizard’s March. The only possible defense is ignorance that the creature was a demon. Even an agreement to mutually avoid contact with a demon has been punished by a Wizard’s March. Faced with a known demon a magus should agree to nothing. In general his only legal choice would be to defend himself or ﬂee. Seeking out demons in order to slay them is generally legal, unless the demon then focuses its attention on the Order. This might result in a charge of endangerment. Intelligent and subtle demons might attack other magi in order to get their real enemy into trouble. In such a case, the magus who started the conﬂict may be punished in proportion to the damage suffered by others. Demons that have already attempted to corrupt magi or attack them are already enemies of the Order. If a magus can show this, it is a valid defense against an endangerment charge. Many magi are of the opinion that all demons are a danger to the Order, reasoning that demons are the enemies of mankind and that magi are part of this group. However, others feel that if the Order were to declare all demons their enemy, Hell would be provoked into a more directed effort against them. In some Tribunals demon hunters are seen as brave heroes who defend the land. In other Tribunals they are seen as foolish adventurers, stirring up trouble. A.A. 1290 (A.D 1151), Rhine Tribunal Rudophus of Durenmar, through his actions, had attracted the attention of a major demon. Although he attempted for over a decade to kill this demon, he was unsuccessful. The demon began systematic attacks against the Redcaps of the Tribunal. The senior Mercere brought a case against Rudophus for endangering the Order. The Tribunal convicted Rudophus and he was commanded to provide House Mercere with some magical means of protecting themselves from the depredations of demons.''

===Molesting the Fay===

'' “I will not molest the fay, least their vengeance catch my sodales as well.”''
''The prosecution will have to show that a magus or covenant has endangered other magi. An attack on a third party is evidence for this. Without such an attack the prosecution will have to show that such an attack is likely. The term ‘molest’ suggests that the conﬂict would have to be provoked by the defendant in a culpable fashion. If the magus involved acted reasonably in defense of their lives and property, it is a valid defense. A.A. 1311 (A.D. 1172), Normandy Tribunal''
''Guardinia of Merinita accused Berenguer of Tytalus molesting the fay. Berenguer claimed in his defense that the faeries had stolen his apprentice, and therefore he had every right to take steps to return the child to his care. The Tribunal upheld Berenguer’s defense, but the Praeco admonished him for being heavy-handed in his rescue.''

===Scrying===

'' “I will not use magic to scry upon members of the Order of Hermes, nor shall I use it to peer into their affairs.”''
''Criamon insisted on this provision to protect his tradition’s magical secrets. Thus attempts to discover magical secrets via magic are considered the most serious. However, any use of magic (not just Intellego spells) to spy or aid spying into a magus’s legal affairs is considered an offense. As always the penalty will depend on the harm done or intended. The key point is ‘legal affairs’. Many covenants have spells and items speciﬁcally designed to reveal scrying attempts. These magics are acknowledged as legal. Theoretically such magics might reveal a legal act. For instance, a visitor might use a scrying spell to innocently communicate with his covenant. However, using such magics in another’s covenant and then complaining if these are detected, is seen as petty, an abuse of hospitality, and is unlikely to receive any support. Magi are unlikely to bring a successful case for being spotted while invisible or shapeshifted within another’s covenant. In general, within their covenant’s grounds, magi are free to protect themselves in any reasonable manner. Spells like Invisible Eye Revealed, Sight of True Form and effects to detect the invisible, are all seen as reasonable. However, the primary purpose of these magics must be to reveal magical spying. Visitors to the covenant still retain their right to privacy and no effect should compromise this in any signiﬁcant or deliberate way. These principles can be applied outside covenant grounds, but with less certainty of Hermetic legality. When using scrying spells in mundane society cautious magi usually cast without Penetration (see Forceless Casting insert). In this way even if a magus is accidentally caught within a target, his privacy is usually protected. However, this is not absolutely safe. Redcaps have no magic resistance and they enjoy the full protection of the Code. In fact, the privacy of Redcaps is particularly sensitive as they often know a great many secrets of other magi. If a Redcap is caught by a scrying spell, the Tribunal will presume intent and the caster would need to convince them otherwise. If there was no intent, but secrets were''
''revealed, damages will be awarded. If there was no intent or secrets revealed the case is trivial.''

===Apprentices===

'' “I will train apprentices who will swear to this Code, and should any of them turn against the Order and my sodales I will be the ﬁrst to strike them. No apprentice of mine shall be called magus until he or she ﬁrst swears to uphold this Code.”''
''To ofﬁcially claim an apprentice a magus must initiate them into Hermetic magic. At this moment the child’s apprenticeship begins and they are entitled to one season of training per year. See Ars Magica 5th Edition for other details. In most Tribunals is a low crime to keep a Gifted child merely as a lab assistant. In order to protect the future of the Order, an unclaimed Gifted child can be taken by the ﬁrst magus who makes a formal and witnessed offer to teach them the Hermetic Arts. The new master is legally obliged to take the child to his sanctum with all reasonable haste and begin Hermetic initiation as soon as practicable. A similar method can also be used if a master is delinquent in training; instead of initiation, a season’s tuition is given.''
''Apprentices taken as children spend ﬁfteen or more years as the property of their master before passing a gauntlet and joining the Order in a formal ceremony. This is not the case with wizards who seek to join the Order as adults. A Gifted person who has already developed significant magical power cannot be initiated into Hermetic magic in the normal way. Initiation rituals might be developed to allow such wizards to become Hermetic, but in any case, such wizards are unsuitable for an apprenticeship and should be offered membership directly.''
''Non-hermetic wizards do not need to pass a gauntlet to be recognized as magi, they simply swear the Oath (having been invited). They have a year to ﬁnd a sponsor and gain membership in a House to avoid a possible vagrancy charge (see above). However, some Tribunals simply assume they are members of Ex Miscellanea. After swearing the Hermetic Oath, the wizard can be legally taught Parma and this is normally done by their sponsor. This sponsor becomes their Hermetic parens with all its associated responsibilities and beneﬁts (inheritance rights). As membership of House Ex Miscellanea has no required standard, such magi normally end up there. House Ex Miscellanea will readily accept wizards who cannot learn Hermetic magic.''

===Duty of the Parens===

'' “. . . should any of them turn against the Order and my sodales I will be the ﬁrst to strike them.”''
''The Oath demands the parens be the ﬁrst to attack an outcast magus. If the parens is dead or in Final Twilight, the inheritor acquires this duty. This is often the eldest ﬁlius of the parens. If there is no other ﬁlius, the duty is passed to the magus with the closest relation. Ultimately the House Primus is responsible if there are no relations. The exact inheritance chain is actually the province of regional Tribunals. Many allow covenants to inherit the estate. However, it is rare that the inheritor strikes down the outcast. This leaves them liable to prosecution. The slayer can charge the inheritor with failing in their lawful duty and settle the case by acquiring the inheritance rights. In 1220 this convention is so established that no one normally bothers with any legal formality. The inheritor also inherits any debts the outcast had. So if the Presiding Quaesitor awarded the outcast’s victim damages, the inheritor must pay from the inherited estate.''

===Bonisagus Rights and Duties===

'' “I shall further the knowledge of the Order and share with my sodales all that I ﬁnd in my search for wisdom and power.”''
''Sworn by members of House Bonisagus, this provision requires members of the House to make available all ﬁnished discoveries. It can also be applied to all Lab Texts and books in general. The magus is required to give access to these texts to all who request it. The Lab Texts do not have to be fully written up and can be in the magus’s normal shorthand. Magi who wish to copy these texts are not''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Blood Rights==

''Seven years ago a young maga gave birth to a Gifted child. As the child grew up, the maga diligently studied her Arts in preparation for the child’s apprenticeship. At the age of six the child spoke Latin as his ﬁrst language and already knew his letters. It was common knowledge in the covenant that the maga planned his initiation for the summer season. However, a week before the spring equinox, a magus visited the covenant and lay claim to the child by a formal offer of Hermetic initiation. The maga refused to give up her son and hid him in her sanctum. The magus charged the maga with depriving him of his magical property. The prosecution case is simple and strong. The maga had not started her son’s Hermetic initiation and so the boy was unclaimed. The defense case may attract a lot of emotive support, but on what basis can a legal argument be made? The standard interpretation makes clear that an undeclared Gifted child is claimable. The defense might make a direct emotive appeal to the Tribunal’s sense of justice. They could argue that the maga’s claim to the child was inherent to her parenthood and that this issue was not addressed by any prior rulings on apprentices. Thus an acquittal ruling would not conﬂict with higher rulings. Her delay in initiating the child was simply a matter of age. She had every intention to properly apprentice the child and that the Tribunal should recognize her blood rights with a new ruling (one to acquit). The Presiding Quaesitor should agree that an acquittal ruling is within the power of the Tribunal. The decision is entirely at the discretion of the Tribunal magi. This situation might make an interesting moral dilemma for player characters (if they are given to moral dilemmas). The maga might belong to a hostile covenant and the would-be master a member of an allied covenant. The player characters may hold the deciding votes.''

|}
''allowed to take them away and must provide their own materials. A covenant can charge the magus for his board and lodgings while he is scribing. To avoid these demands a Bonisagus magus can send a copy to the library of Durenmar. Once it is in this library, the Bonisagus can refer any enquiries there.''
'' “I concede the right of Bonisagus to take from me any apprentice he may ﬁnd helpful in his studies.”''
''This provision is sworn by those not within House Bonisagus. It is extended as a right to all members of House Bonisagus. This allows magi of House Bonisagus to obtain the very best apprentices. Although legal, a Bonisagus magus who abused his right this way would have a very poor reputation. Since Wizard War grants full immunity, outraged former masters may well bring such a magus to task. A.A. 1311 (A.D. 1172), Rome Tribunal In the seven years since the last Tribunal, Helvennia of Bonisagus had exercised her right to claim another’s apprentice no less than eight times. All had died within a year. She claimed that the nature of her work was inherently dangerous, and the loss of those apprentices, while unfortunate, was beyond her control. Although the Tribunal was minded to rule in favor of the seven magi who leveled charges against her, the Presiding Quaesitor insisted on the legality of Helvennia’s actions and she was acquitted. However, the Praeco wrote to the Primus of House Bonisagus with the Tribunal’s petition for Helvennia to be censured, but was refused. Helvennia claimed another apprentice in the following year. On the night of the following new moon seven declarations of Wizard War were delivered to her. Despite attempts at arbitration, none of the seven agreed to withdrawn their declaration. Helvennia ﬂed into hiding but was found and slain with the aid of her new apprentice.''

===Casting Out===

'' “I request that should I break this Oath, I be cast out of the Order. If I am cast out, I ask my sodales to ﬁnd me and slay me that my life may not continue in degradation and infamy.”''
''If taken literally, all convictions should lead to a Wizard’s March. In practice the Presiding Quaesitor normally offers the magus a lesser punishment. However, if the magus refuses this offer the magus is cast out.''

===Enemies and Allies===

'' “The enemies of the Order are my enemies. The friends of the Order are my friends. The allies of the Order are my allies. Let us work as one and grow strong.”''
''Magi who aid or maintain friendly relationships with enemies of the Order may be prosecuted. Similarly magi who attack the friends and allies of the Order may be prosecuted. However, the Order has few officially declared enemies and many of them are demons or diabolists. Only a Tribunal can declare an individual or group as an enemy, but the requirements for friendship are more open. A prosecution can be made for attacks against the friends and allies of individual covenants, but this is a difﬁcult case to make. Few prosecutions are made under this provision.''

==The Peripheral Code==

''The Hermetic Oath is clariﬁed, embellished and expanded by Tribunal rulings. These rulings are collectively known as the Peripheral Code. There are two types of Tribunal ruling, case and proposed. Case rulings result from convictions or acquittals in criminal cases. Proposal rulings are simply proposed for debate and the Tribunal decides to agree to it or not.''

===Case Rulings===

''Previous case rulings are often used by the prosecution or defense. If a Tribunal voted to convict a magus in similar circumstances they will be inclined to convict again. The prosecution will try to highlight the similarities and the defense the differences. If the defense can ﬁnd a case of an acquittal the same arguments will run in reverse. Most local Tribunals hold their own rulings as superior to other local Tribunals. In fact it might be a blunder to use a ruling from a rival Tribunal, as parochial magi may be less inclined to vote the same way. Even if there is no prior ruling or provision of the Code that might apply, a prosecution can be brought. The Tribunal will then hear the evidence and debate whether the action should be ruled illegal or not. If successful this form of case ruling often encourages prosecutions on similar grounds. As cases often rest on intent and reasonableness, prior case rulings are often of dubious relevance. However, there are cases which have established widely accepted''
''legal principle; many of these are taken to the Grand Tribunal.''

===Proposal Rulings===

''A magus can simply propose that the Tribunal pass a new ruling. A traditionalist would insist that all rulings need to be based on some part of the Oath. Tribunals should only clarify, expand and embellish the Code, not create wholly novel provisions. Proposals need to be published no later than two years prior to the Tribunal. This requires the magus to write letters to all the covenants in the Tribunal and ensure that they are delivered. The Tribunal can then debate whether to adopt it or not.''
''If a Tribunal rules in favor of a proposal, prosecutions or proposals on the same lines often follow in others. In this way popular local Tribunal rulings tend to be adopted in a number of Tribunals. Such popular rulings are often taken to the Grand Tribunal for endorsement. The rulings of the First and Grand Tribunal are seen as authoritative in all Tribunals. For example, the First Tribunal made rulings on sancta, apprentices, the power of the Quaesitores and certamen. These rulings and their interpretation are standard throughout the Order.''

===The Detail===

''It would be neither practical nor desirable to detail all of the Peripheral Code. Storyguides are free to create any Tribunal ruling they desire. However, unless the''
''In the early days of the Order the culture of distrust and violence was still strong. Many would not accept that a less powerful magus could defy them. They often rejected the equality of Tribunal justice and declared Wizard War on their opponents. These wars sometimes developed into bloody feuds between groups. To Guernicus this was to be expected, born of the ﬂaw Flambeau had insisted on. Some of Guernicus’s ﬁlii speculated that the situation would correct itself; after this bloody period magi would understand that Wizard War risked a spiraling cycle of killings. This risk would only increase as social connections deepened with later generations. However, others were dismayed with the situation and sought an immediate solution. Tremere and Bonisagus presented their certamen ritual as this solution. This dueling magic would allow magi to settle disputes via a test of their magical power. Guernicus was alarmed. Although he did not object to the ritual having some function, he insisted that it be limited in scope, lest it render the Tribunal process irrelevant. However, as there were no restrictions on Wizard War, Tremere and others argued that any restriction on certamen would undermine its purpose. It was argued that the cycles of Wizard Wars were threatening the Order and a radical answer was required. Unrestricted certamen was the only one presented. Despite Guernicus’s objection the ruling was passed. For the ﬁrst and only time in Order history Guernicus exercised his veto, but the Primi overruled it. After this defeat, Guernicus retreated to Magvillus never to venture out again.''
''For a while the ruling appeared successful. However, history showed that it was a key piece of Tremere’s bid for domination. This ended in the Sundering of 848 AD. The council of Primi that followed retracted their objection to Guernicus’s veto and certamen ceased to have any legal force for twenty years. At the Grand Tribunal of 868 AD, after much consultation with House Guernicus, the certamen ruling was amended and reinstated. Certamen could not be used to defy a Tribunal judgment, make a magus break the Code or ignore a Code violation. If a magus believed he had been challenged to certamen over a Code protected issue, he might refuse it. This would technically forfeit the dispute, but if the challenge was illegal it would be unenforceable. If the challenger believed the challenge was legal, he could publish a case for failing to respect a certamen result. If the Tribunal ruled the challenge legal, the Presiding Quaesitor would enforce the result, adding damages, ﬁnes and punishments as appropriate. For example, if a magus’s ownership of a vis source is uncontestable by a Tribunal’s rules of ownership, an opponent cannot legally demand certamen to take ownership from him. However, if the ownership is in reasonable doubt, rival claimants can challenge each other to certamen to resolve it. The reasonable doubt transforms the case from criminal theft, to a non-criminal dispute. In deciding whether to issue or accept a challenge, a magus needs to consider if their Tribunal would judge it a criminal matter or not. If a challenge is mutually accepted no Tribunal appeal is possible.''

==The Legality of Certamen==

''Transitionalists hold sway such rulings should not rewrite the Oath or seriously undermine any of the Order’s core membership rights. In general, these rulings cover matters favorable to the peace and stability of the Order. For example, physical or magical assaults that do not threaten a magus’s life or magic, breaching a contract, perjury at Tribunal, attempting to deceive a Quaesitor conducting an investigation, and failure to cooperate with a legally conducted Quaesitorial investigation. Many of these rulings rest on the endangerment provision. If another Ars Magica book claims an act is a low crime, it should be understood that there is a ruling to that effect.''

==Tribunal Procedures==

''Sooner or later player character magi will need to prosecute or defend a case. The basic Hermetic legal process is given below. Although the basics are universal to the Order, there is a great deal of variation between Tribunals over the details. The powers of the Praeco and the Presiding Quaesitor were deﬁned by the rulings of the First Tribunal; thus they are held as unalterable by traditionalists.''

==Preparing a Case==


===Determining the Principles===

''Each case must have a prosecution and defense principle. In cases where there is a living victim, they become the prosecution principle. If the victim has been slain the case may be brought by anyone, although a relation is preferred. If more than one magus volunteers within three months of the Tribunal, the principle is determined by order of precedence. In descending order these are: parens, ﬁlius, amicus, covenant sodales and then any other magus. Candidates at the same level of relation take precedence by seniority. If the case involves a crime against the Order itself, anyone may volunteer to be prosecution principle. There may be competition for this role and seniority or certamen normally decides the matter. Quaesitors prefer to remain impartial, but if no one volunteers to be prosecution principle for a high crime, a Quaesitor will do so. If no one volunteers to prosecute a low crime, there is no case. It should be noted that if a vic''
''tim chooses not to pursue a case (high or low), that is their right. The accused automatically begins as the defense principle.''

===Determining the Tribunal===

''A case is normally heard in the Tribunal where the actions that led to the charge took place. If the location is in a border region and the defendant is a resident on one side, the case should be brought there. If the location is in a border region and only the prosecutor is a resident of either, the case should be brought to the prosecutor’s Tribunal. In all other situations, the case should be brought to the defendant’s Tribunal. A magus is required to declare his name and residential Tribunal to any Hermetic magus who asks. If a magus refuses to give his name and Tribunal, a Quaesitor can be asked to investigate their identity. If a principle and witnesses need to travel to another Tribunal the principle must bear the expense. However, a principle can claim back these costs from his counterpart if they win.''

===Publishing a Case===

''The prosecuting principle must make reasonable effort to inform the defendant, the Presiding Quaesitor and the Praeco, what charges are to be brought, including a detailed list of the allegations. This should be done no later than three months prior to the Tribunal. Redcaps are normally contracted to deliver these notices. They also witness that they were delivered in time or that reasonable effort was made to deliver them. This is called publishing. Crimes that occur, or are discovered, within three months of the Tribunal can be published at the Tribunal only if the defendant attends. Such cases are heard last in''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Settlements==

''Bringing a case to Tribunal is time consuming, often costly and fraught with dangers. In many Tribunals this will be made worse by further elaborate rulings on procedure. A Tribunal’s time is precious; unless the case is very serious magi do not wish to be bothered by it. Parties should seek a private settlement if possible and may face great pressure to settle. Senior magi will often step in to initiate a negotiation. If an Archmagus or senior Quaesitor offers to facilitate a settlement, player characters would be wise to accept.''

|}
''order to give the defense time to prepare and ﬁnd an advocate if they wish (see below). If the Tribunal is busy these cases are often set back to the following Tribunal. Great pressure is brought to settle such cases out of court. If a case is properly published and the defendant fails to attend, a Guernicus advocate will act as his defense principle. Although the advocate will do his best, he is obviously at a disadvantage.''

===Transferring a Case===

''Both the prosecution and defense principle can transfer their case to another, who is then responsible for it. Experienced advocates can make a great deal of difference to the outcome. A successful prosecution can net substantial ﬁnes, a third of which go to the prosecution principle. A victim may sweeten this pot with his own resources in order to attract the best candidates. Defense advocates normally set a ﬂat fee for their service, paid in advance. The most demanding task of a principle is to contact their respective witnesses and gather their testimony. This testimony needs to be checked for accuracy and consis''
''tency. If some error of recollection introduces an inconsistency, a case can be left in disarray. Both the principle and the witness are legally responsible for this testimony.''

==Presenting a Case==


===Private Hearing===

''At Tribunal the defense and the prosecution principles must give a fair summary of their case in private before the Presiding Quaesitor. At this point either side may dispute points of fact brought by the other. The Quaesitor may decide to delay the case to the next Tribunal in order to conduct a full investigation. If the truth of the matter can be resolved quickly, the Quaesitor will rule on the disputed facts at the initial hearing. Ruling on the facts of a case does not amount to a judgment of the case. Unlike modern trials, a Hermetic trial is not seen as a place to test the facts; rather it is a place to test legal merits. Conﬂicting testimonies as to facts are forbidden in the same trial. The private hearing should minimize these conﬂicts. The Quaesitores have spells perfected over centuries to discover the truth, so knowing perjury is normally a foolish tactic. At this initial hearing the Presiding Quaesitor will give his opinion on the merits of the case. If the prosecution case is weak he may advise it not to proceed, but this is always the prosecution’s choice. If the defense is weak, he may offer an immediate ruling. If both sides agree the case may be settled at this point. Defendants without a strong defense are best advised to accept the offer, as saving the Tribunal’s time counts in their favor. The Presiding Quaesitor cannot offer a summary judgment unless both the defense and prosecution principle agree to it. This is true even for low crimes.''

===Public Hearing===

''The majority of cases will not get to this stage. They are either settled either out of court or at the private hearing. The Tribunal should only hear cases that are truly serious or highly contentious. The case begins with the prosecution, who formally presents the charges and then calls witnesses to give testimony. Firstly magi are called and each gives testimony. This can include testimony of testimony given by non-attending witnesses. After magi, apprentices are called. In the rare event of supernatural creatures being brought as witnesses, they give their testimony next. Finally any mun''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Lawful Tyranny==

''A defendant can threaten to declare Wizard War on the prosecuting principle, demanding they drop the case. This is perfectly legal. Depending on the style of saga, this may or may not be a problem. However, there are ways of checking it. A prosecuting principle can always transfer a case before publishing it. The new principle should be powerful enough to ignore any threats. In addition, the principle becomes his client’s protector. If Wizard War is declared on a client, the principle will threaten the aggressor with Wizard War. If the aggressor cannot be convinced to withdraw the declaration, the client will be offered a hiding place for the war’s duration. If the client is killed despite the concealment, the principle is honor bound to kill the aggressor, however long it takes. If the original aggressor chooses to hide, declarations will be made monthly until one of the parties is dead. In cases where such threats are likely, the cost of transferring can be very high. If no one else will assist and a client has a strong case, a Guernicus advocate will take it. If a Guernicus advocate is threatened or needs to issue a counter declaration, a number of Hoplites normally step in unbidden to help. In many Tribunals, threatening a Guernicus advocate or his client is effective suicide and does not enter the mind of rational magi.''

|}
''dane witnesses are called. If there is more than one witness to the same event, they should agree on a single testimony and the most senior presents it. After the prosecution case is presented, the defendant gives his response, calling on witnesses in the same order. If either side disputes testimony in the public hearing they have two options. A principle can stop the trial and immediately start a perjury case; this case must be concluded before the original case can proceed. Alternatively the principle can demand his opposite withdraw the testimony, under the threat of a perjury charge. After the defense ﬁnishes, the prosecution can then offer further testimony if the defense has brought up a point not previously addressed. The defense can respond in kind. This is repeated until no further points are offered. Members of the Tribunal can then put questions to the defense and prosecution, as well as ask the Presiding Quaesitor to clarify the Code. The relevance of precedents from both the local Tribunal and others can be debated. If the legal merits of the case are clear to the Presiding Quaesitor, he will say so. Once there are no more questions or discussion, the Praeco summarizes the case as he sees it and Tribunal votes. A simple majority decides, with the Praeco breaking any ties.''

==Acquittal==

''If a case ends in an acquittal the prosecution principle is liable for all the defense principle’s costs. This includes the costs of his advocate, private investigations, lost seasons and travel expenses for witnesses. If the same events are subject to a counter-case, that case begins immediately. The defendant principle becomes the prosecution principle and visa versa. Often no further evidence can be presented and so the tribunal moves immediately to a vote.''

==Conviction==

''If there is a conviction for a high crime, the prosecution can call for a Wizard’s March. The convicted magi can make an appeal for mercy, after which there is a general debate on the proposition. After the Praeco feels there has been sufﬁcient discussion he calls for a vote. A simple majority decides, with a tie defeating the motion. Assuming that the Tribunal does not demand a March, the Presiding Quaesitor offers a lesser penalty it its place. Before this the convicted magus can make a statement. Displays of contrition are often looked on''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Testimony==

''A magus is obliged to give testimony personally in any case presented at his residential Tribunal. For cases presented at foreign Tribunals, the magus has the option of giving his testimony in writing. This is then read out at Tribunal by the principle. This is referred to as testimony of testimony (see below). All testimony should be precisely scripted and repeated exactly. Any mistake or contradiction might give the opposition the chance to bring a perjury charge or demand the whole testimony is withdrawn. However, the private hearing should have resolved the majority of these conﬂicts. If the Presiding Quaesitor believes a principle remained silent at the private hearing in order to bring a perjury charge, he can veto it. If the Presiding Quaesitor judges the error to be immaterial, he can also veto the charge. In either of these cases the testimony can be amended without the principle facing a penalty. If a charge of perjury is made, a Quaesitorial investigation and a perjury trial will be required. Making false claims of perjury incurs the same degree of punishment as perjury itself. A Quaesitor can be asked to endorse testimony. If the witness agrees to it, a Quaesitor casts magic to verify its truth; this endorsement normally wins a perjury case. This is not routine and is only done at the principle’s request. No magus can be forced to submit to truth-detection spells. However, only one side needs to be endorsed to win the case. If neither side submits to a Quaesitorial investigation the Tribunal will vote according to their judgment. If both sides submit and both are veriﬁed, there is an immediate suspicion of infernal involvement. In this event all related cases are suspended and a full investigation is made immediately after the Tribunal. Although testimony of testimony might be judged a truthful account of the origin testimony, the original testimony cannot be veriﬁed by a Quaesitor at the Tribunal. If indirect testimony conﬂicts with other indirect testimony, only Quaesitorial investigation can determine the truth. As the absent witnesses need to be interviewed, this normally delays the case to the next Tribunal. There is great pressure for a private settlement in these circumstances.''

|}
''favorably. Others may choose to retain a digniﬁed silence and accept whatever penalty is decided.''

==Penalties==

''Hermetic justice seeks to compensate and avenge the victim. The penalty depends on the loss or injury (of whatever sort) sustained by the victim. This includes endangerment and intent to cause loss or injury. If a victim cannot show this, the penalties are likely to be minimal. Thus a conviction may be a pyrrhic victory. Hermetic penalties are split into three types: damages, ﬁnes and punishments.''

===Damages===

''Damages are paid directly to the victim (or his heirs). This includes any costs incurred in bringing the case. In the case of a Wizard’s March, the Presiding Quaesitor will normally grant the victim one quarter of the outcast’s estate. If there is more than one victim, the Presiding Quaesitor will split the share amongst them.''

===Fines===

''Fines are paid to compensate the Tribunal and the prosecution for the time and effort spent pursuing the case; one third is given to the prosecutor, two-thirds to the Tribunal coffers. Tribunal coffers are kept by the Praeco and accounted for by the senior Mercere. In the case of a March, the prosecutor receives one fourth of the outcast’s estate (if the victim was also the prosecutor he receives one half in total). By Grand Tribunal ruling the''
''Tribunal coffers cannot beneﬁt from calling a March. The remaining half of the estate goes to the inheritor.''

===Punishments===

''Punishments are purely retributive. They are of course redundant in the case of a March.''

==Determining Penalties==

''The ﬁrst concern of the Presiding Quaesitor is to ensure the victim receives commensurate compensation (damages). If the crime warrants it, punishments will be handed down as retribution. In determining damages, ﬁnes and punishments the Quaesitor consults precedent and adjusts for speciﬁc circumstance. Damages and ﬁnes are paid in vis or in the form of enchanted devices. When the Presiding Quaesitor issues the penalty the convicted magus has three options. He can accept it, offer to negotiate different terms, or ﬂatly refuse. If no agreement can be reached, the default penalty applies, a Wizard’s March. If the magus refuses a lesser penalty three times the Quaesitor will declare the magus Marched. The convicted magus can ask to negotiate his penalty. Such negotiations are conducted between the convict, the prosecution principal and the Presiding Quaesitor. By offering greater compensation a convicted magus can hope to reduce any punishment. Both the Quaesitor and the prosecuting principal should agree to any settlement. In the end it is the Quaesitor’s responsibility to ensure that the convicted magus can pay the assigned compensation and ﬁnes or perform any service. Setting impossible penalties is not in the interests of Hermetic justice. Damages, ﬁnes or services should normally be paid or completed in full by the next Tribunal. Punishments such as the loss of a familiar also need to be imposed before the next Tribunal. Apprentices need to be surrendered immediately. Failure to comply is a high crime and a Tribunal may be forced into calling a Wizard’s March. If the magus intended to pay, but unforeseen circumstances prevented him, the Presiding Quaesitor can grant extensions at the following Tribunal. However, the ﬁne may be increased. Conspiracies to prevent a magus paying ﬁnes and damages are not unknown. However, this qualiﬁes as a high crime as it endangers a magus’ life. A magus can appeal to the council of Magvillus if he believes the penalty is impossible to pay. The Magvillus Council carefully reviews the convicted magus’s ability to pay and changes the terms to accord with their determination of a maximum penalty. Few penalties are ever appealed to Magvillus.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Counter-Case Example==

''Two magi are in dispute about the ownership of a vis source. Both have harvested from the site. Each charges the other with deprivation of magical property. The Praeco decides whose case is heard ﬁrst. The Tribunal hears all the evidence and acquits the defendant. The other magus then becomes the defendant. The Tribunal has already heard and debated the evidence and so votes. Since they acquitted the ﬁrst magus, the second magus should be convicted; unless the Tribunal is ﬁckle.''

|}

==Wizard’s March==

''When a magus is cast out of the Order, he loses all legal protections. He is an outlaw. Any magus can kill him with impunity. The parens of a Marched magus has a duty to ﬁnd and slay him, but usually there is no shortage of volunteers. The outcast is usually hunted down by multiple experienced magi. The term Wizard’s March arose to refer to this hunt. Traditionally a Tribunal’s grounds are considered sacred, and violence of any sort is strictly forbidden. Some Tribunals cast an Aegis over the grounds with only the Quaesitors, Praeco and Hoplites joining the ritual. Certamen opponents are given tokens and duels must be conducted in a specially designated circle. Violence within the Tribunal grounds is not unknown, but is usually punished harshly. Normally, magi that the Tribunal has voted to cast out have until the end of the Tribunal before they can be legally attacked. Until the Tribunal is ratified and declared closed, the magus is not ofﬁcially cast out. This helps ensures the sanctity of the Tribunal grounds. However, if the convicted magus makes any aggressive act, the assembled magi can respond as they see ﬁt. Magi that are a clear danger to the Order, like diabolists, are slain beforehand, with the Tribunal later endorsing the action. In the rare event of a magus being cast out at Tribunal, the situation is tense. Many Tribunals asked outcasts to leave the Tribunal grounds immediately. In most Tribunals this period is seen as giving a sporting chance to the outcast. However, if the magus is considered very dangerous, he may be shadowed by powerful Hoplites and slain immediately on leaving Tribunal grounds. Although technically illegal, unless the Tribunal is ruled invalid there will never be any prosecution. Some Tribunals have specially constructed wards that the defendant stands within while the Tribunal votes on high crimes. If Marched they remain within until the Tribunal is ruled valid and closed. After this the outcast is dispatched.''

==Punishments==

''Punishments are set in a hierarchy to accord with the seriousness of the conviction. In order of increasing severity:''

===Seasons of Service===

''These are normally performed for the beneﬁt of Mercere or Guernicus magi in pursuit of their Tribunal duties. Tasks are assigned according to the convicted magus’s abilities. If a service requires vis, it is provided. The Presiding Quaesitor normally splits the seasons in the favor of Mercere magi. Service to Mercere often involves enacting longevity rituals and investing devices. It is up to the senior Mercere to determine the details. In the past some magi have been assigned to work as Redcaps. Service to Guernicus often involves copying Tribunal records. Sometimes a convicted magus is asked to investigate potential breaches of the law himself. Involving a magus in the upholding of Hermetic law is often seen as an excellent opportunity to restore a magus’s character.''

===Investing Items===

''The magus is instructed to invest items with particular effects and deliver them to particular members of House Mercere or Guernicus. The details of the invested effects are negotiated between the convicted magus and the Presiding Quaesitor or senior Mercere.''

===Loss of an Apprentice===

''The convicted magus must surrender their apprentice immediately. Theoretically the apprentice can then be claimed by anyone. In practice the prosecuting principle has ﬁrst claim. If the prosecuting principle does not wish to, the Quaesitor will call for candidates. Ideally the Presiding Quaesitor will place an apprentice with a magus from the same House as their former master (particularly if they have been initiated into a mystery). If multiple suitable candidates step forward, certamen contests decide the matter. If the apprentice is not already present at Tribunal the new master needs to take possession within the season.''

===Banishment From Tribunal===

''Tribunals’ geographical boundaries are vague, but the magus should avoid areas generally agreed to belong to a particular Tribunal. If a magus has personal vis sources within these areas, he needs to contract others to harvest them. The magus is required to ﬁnd another residential Tribunal.''

===Loss of Familiar===

''To many magi, a familiar is the closest relationship they will ever have. Separation for a familiar is analogous to separation from a wife or child. The emotional impact of this punishment should not be underestimated. The cords connecting magus and familiar must be cut. This is an extremely painful and emotionally scarring experience for both parties. Quaesitors have a ritual spell that achieves this and it is the Presiding Quaesitor’s unpleasant duty to perform the ritual if requested (the convicted magus must provide the vis). Alternatively the process can be achieved in a season of lab activity. To verify this, the magus needs to submit to magical investigation at the next Tribunal. After the cords have been cut, both magus and former familiar ﬁnd each other’s presence too much to bear. A familiar normally ﬂees into the wilderness and avoids all future contact with magi. The former familiar cannot normally be rebound.''

===Death of Familiar===

''The convicted magus’s familiar must be killed. The horror of seeing your familiar’s execution cannot adequately be expressed in words.  Some magi have decided''
''to accept a March rather than submit to this; this is seen as an honorable choice. They would rather take their chances as an outcast than meekly give their familiar up to the butcher’s knife.''

==Quaesitorial Duties and Powers==

''Quaesitors enjoy a privileged status in Hermetic society, but this comes with responsibilities. Each Quaesitor is virtually autonomous in how he or she serves the Order. However, neglecting Quaesitorial duties will be noticed and eventually Quaesitorial status will be withdrawn. The worst thing a Quaesitor can do is abuse their position. This is one of few offences that the Magvillus Council will punish with expulsion from House Guernicus.''

==Quaesitor in Good Standing==

''Each Quaesitor must carry a letter, signed by the Primus of House Guernicus, which declares them to be a''
''Quaesitor in good standing (Quaesitor cum auctoritate). This letter must be less than seven years old to be valid. A Quaesitor has no authority without this document and cannot demand cooperation in investigations or preside at Tribunal.''

==Investigation Duties==

''A Quaesitor in good standing has a duty to investigate serious complaints formally presented to him. It is up to the Quaesitor to judge which complaints are serious. He may ask for more compelling evidence from a complainant before embarking on a full investigation. He is also entitled to at least three seasons every year to pursue his own studies or attend to covenant responsibilities. This entitlement can be accrued and so a Quaesitor may make himself unavailable to investigate complaints for extended lab work. If he is unavailable he can pass the investigation to another or simply give the complainant the authority to investigate.''

==Cooperation==

''By Grand Tribunal ruling, a Quaesitor in good standing can demand that magi cooperate with an ofﬁcial investigation. Without giving up their legal rights, a magus must assist an investigation if asked. Thus the magus should answer reasonable questions related to the investigation. He is never required to reveal legal magical secrets, but otherwise he should answer honestly and without evasion. Failure to cooperate with an investigation is a low crime. Magi should also allow their servants to be questioned. Similarly, if servants are commanded to evade questions or even lie, the responsible magi can be charged.''

==Investigation Immunity==

''Arcane investigation often involves Intellego magic. However, the Code normally protects a magus from this intrusion. Rather than grant the Quaesitores full immunity or completely forbid a primary method of investigation, the First and Grand Tribunals provided Guernicus and his ﬁlii with a set of guidelines for when such methods can be employed. These immunities can also be extended to agents of a Quaesitor. The scrying prohibition was instituted to protect magi’s legitimate magical secrets, not their crimes. Any act performed while committing, or in preparation to commit, a crime is considered outside the protection of''
''the Code (see above). Magi are therefore free to use magic to investigate criminal activities. Even if a crime is found, the Quaesitor might be charged with scrying on the innocent activities incidentally discovered while pursuing the inquiry. To protect Quaesitors from this, investigators are granted limited immunity as long as they are engaged in a justiﬁed investigation and are reasonable in the scope of their magical inquiry. However, Intellego Mentem magic can never be used on magi or their servants without their permission. Inevitably a Quaesitor will unintentionally gather information on innocent activities. The Quaesitor may be liable for prosecution for this, but only for damages. The victim must show that his magical secrets were compromised by the investigation. An example would be some element of mystae magic being revealed to the Quaesitor. Usually the incidental scrying will not reveal anything of magical signiﬁcance to the victim and so there will be no case. Any compensation is normally paid from Tribunal coffers. If a magus feels that a Quaesitor has used a minor transgression or baseless allegation to excuse an extensive intrusion into his affairs, he will have to convince the Tribunal of this. The likely success of such a case will vary from Tribunal to Tribunal. Although a case may fail, it will serve to embarrass the individual Quaesitor as well as House Guernicus. In consequence, Quaesitors may choose to hand on any investigation involving a magus they or their covenant is in conﬂict with. This limited immunity theoretically extends to any magus in honest investigation of a Hermetic crime. However, other magi do not have the traditional respect for the Quaesitor title backing them up and so should be more cautious. If a serious Hermetic crime is uncovered''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sanctum Invasions==

''If they feel it necessary a Quaesitor can enter the sanctum of a magus under investigation. While within the sanctum, the Quaesitor and any of their agents are under forfeit immunity. Theoretically the sanctum owner can attack with impunity. However, as soon as the Quaesitor leaves their immunity is restored. The Quaesitor investigation immunity protects them against charges related to this invasion. To avoid a confrontation, the Quaesitor or his agent normally enters the sanctum when the owner is distracted elsewhere. Some sanctums, particularly of magi with something to hide, have lethal magic protecting them. However, in the rare case of Quaesitor being killed investigating a sanctum, the investigation is taken over and pursued with every effort.''

|}
''even a non-Quaesitor is fairly safe from prosecution; success is the key.''

==Compensation==

''Any vis spent in the course of pursuing an investigation is returned from Tribunal coffers (if available). If the coffers are low the Quaesitor may not be fully compensated. However, ﬁnes in the following Tribunal are likely to be particularly harsh, as this is usually their only income. The storyguide should decide on a seasonal rate for a Tribunal. If the investigation proves the complaint unfounded the complainant must pay the Quaesitor this seasonal rate, including any vis spent in its pursuit. Otherwise the Tribunal will pay the Quaesitor from its coffers (if available). Three pawns per season is a typical ﬁgure, but this will vary between sagas and Tribunals. If a Quaesitor investigates and then prosecutes a case they will also receive one-third of the ﬁne. However, normally others conduct the prosecution. A.A 1030 (890 A.D), Thebes Tribunal Morwena of Ex Miscellanea brought charges against Darius of Guernicus, for abuse of Quaesitorial privilege. Morwena claimed Darius had used his position as Quaesitor to conduct a vendetta against her for over thirty years. Morwena cited twenty-one separate investigations that Darius had conducted into her activities since she arrived in the Tribunal. Only four had come before Tribunal and only one had resulted in a conviction, and this was for a low crime. Seven investigations that initially focused on her eventually led to other magi. Darius claimed he had good cause for his suspicions, as Morwena’s magical heritage was renowned for its dark practices. The Tribunal acquitted Darius, but he was called to Magvillus less than a year later and then moved to the Rhine Tribunal.''

==Calling a Wizard’s March==

''In the most extreme circumstances a Quaesitor may decide to declare a Wizard’s March, independent of any Tribunal. This is done when a magus poses a threat to the Order that requires immediate action. A typical example would be a magus discovered to be a diabolist. As magi who cooperate with a Tribunal are so rarely cast out, in practice the majority of Marches are called this way. The next Tribunal meeting normally ratiﬁes such decisions after the fact. At the Tribunal the Quaesitor will have to justify the action. The evidence presented is expected to be compelling. Were the Tribunal to be''
''unconvinced, the consequences are likely to be dire. However, no Quaesitor has ever been convicted of calling such a Wizard’s March without due cause. By Grand Tribunal ruling, no Quaesitor can materially beneﬁt in any way from calling a Wizard’s March. Any property that he might acquire is given to the Tribunal coffers.''

==Consultation and Arbitration==

''A Quaesitor can be asked to help draft and/or witness formal agreements between covenants or individuals. This can be done via correspondence, at the Quaesitor’s covenant, or it may involve travel. A Quaesitor may also be asked to arbitrate a dispute, with the seniority of the Quaesitor commensurate with the power of the disputing parties. If both sides agree to arbitration then the Quaesitor will organize a meeting at his home covenant. Both sides will then sit round a table and present their case to the Quaesitor. He will then do his best to reach a settlement acceptable to both sides. This settlement will take into account the relative strengths of their legal positions as well as the realities of their relative political and magical strengths. Although this may not appear fair to a modern reader, if brought to Tribunal these factors often inﬂuence votes. Ignoring these realities at arbitration would undermine the process. The aim of the exercise is to produce a lasting peace and this is the primary concern. Arbitration ends in a formal agreement drafted and witnessed by the Quaesitor. All three parties keep a copy of this agreement, with the Quaesitor delivering one to the Presiding Quaesitor. Once agreed, failure to comply with this agreement is an offense by Grand Tribunal ruling. Regardless of the merits of the original dispute, the delinquent party will face a heavy penalty at Tribunal. The Quaesitor is not obligated to provide these services, but it is common practice. The fee charged is''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Pardon Me==

''Unknown parties engineer incidents in order to convince a player character Quaesitor that their enemy is a diabolist. Unless the Quaesitor is cautious, he may declare a Wizard’s March in error. As Hoplites start hunting the hapless victim, the Quaesitor may discover the deception, but can he contact the Hoplites in time? If not, what will be the punishment at Tribunal? The Quaesitor might mitigate his error by exposing the conspirators and prosecuting them. With his reputation in tatters this will be difﬁcult.''

|}
''entirely at the Quaesitor’s discretion. A Quaesitor’s reputation will often be made or broken by his conduct in these matters.''

==Tribunal Duties==

''Quaesitors perform a number of functions at Tribunal. The most important is the Presiding Quaesitor, but there are other roles. The Presiding Quaesitor has two advisers, who are consulted on all signiﬁcant decisions. Quaesitors can also be asked to endorse testimony, which attests to its truthfulness. These roles are discussed in detail below.''

===The Presiding Quaesitor===

''After the close of each Tribunal meeting, the local Quaesitors meet to decide who will be the Presiding Quaesitor for the following period; the decision is made by vote. Being a Presiding Quaesitor also gives a seat on the outer tier of the Magvillus Council. For ambitious Quaesitors, this can be a path to advancement. It should be noted that, on average, a Tribunal will only have eleven or twelve Quaesitors. Half of these will be seen as too young for the post, thus perhaps only ﬁve will be credible candidates. Of this, perhaps two or three would actually want the position. However, it is seen as unbecoming to actively seek it. Prospective Presiding Quaesitors must be persuaded by their peers to stand or seek to retain the post. For many Quaesitors their reluctance is real; it is a position of great pressure and responsibility. In any case, it is seen as unhealthy to retain the post for more than three Tribunal periods; unless there are no other credible candidates, few are elected for a fourth term. At least two candidates need to stand, even if one is a token opponent. Therefore there is a signiﬁcant rotation of the post amongst the senior half of Quaesitors. The Presiding Quaesitor has two advisers. If the Presiding Quaesitor is a Guernicus magus, one of these advisers should be non-Guernicus. Every decision made by the Presiding Quaesitor is made in consultation with these advisers. It is not unheard of for a young Quaesitor to be offered the role of adviser for the experience. Although the Presiding Quaesitor’s word is ﬁnal, it is rare in the extreme for the united opinion of both advisers to be overridden. A Presiding Quaesitor has the ﬁnal word on all legal questions put to the Tribunal. If he ﬁrmly believes any ruling (proposal or case) unambiguously conﬂicts directly with the Code or a ruling of a higher Tribunal, and his advisers agree, he can veto it. He can also veto a case rul''
''ing if he ﬁrmly believes a miscarriage of justice is taking place, although some Presiding Quaesitors merely hand out token penalties it such cases (see insert for further discussion). The Tribunal can appeal any veto to the Grand Tribunal as one of their three issues. Case rulings require the principles to write up all testimony for consideration of the Grand Tribunal. Principles can choose whether to present supporting legal arguments in person or in writing. The Presiding Quaesitor is required to explain his objection in person. At the end of the Tribunal the Presiding Quaesitor recalls any magi expelled by the Praeco. He then makes a speech giving his opinion on the Tribunal. He then calls for a vote to validate the Tribunal, which requires a twothirds majority. If the Tribunal is generally run in an improper manner, for instance, if the Praeco blatantly acts in a partisan manner, manipulating the agenda and unjustly silencing magi, the Tribunal may not be ruled valid. If not validated, all the rulings of the Tribunal are void. In most sagas these will never happen. In particular, declaring a whole Tribunal invalid indicates a Tribunal on the verge of lawlessness. The Presiding Quaesitor also sets all punishments for breaches of the law that do not result in a Wizard’s March (see above for further details). At the Grand Tribunal the Guernicus Primus acts as the Presiding Quaesitor. However, the Guernicus Primus can only exercise his veto if the majority of the Primi agree. In this way the Order is protected from mob rule. The requirement for the concurrence of the Primi ensures that House Guernicus cannot acquire power by corruptly applying the veto.''

===Endorsing Testimony===

''Evidence in Hermetic law is usually in the form of testimony. If the testifying magus requests it, a Quaesitor will use magic to verify that the testimony is truthful. To give such testimony the witness must dispel his Parma and any other spell or item effect. The Quaesitor then checks for any magical effects that might manipulate the Quaesitor’s magic. For the magus’s protection while his Parma is down, this process is normally done in private chambers. In any case, it would be the height of stupidity for a magical attack to be made at Tribunal in the presence of the region’s most senior Quaesitors. Within the Order’s history many magi have attempted to deceive a Quaesitor into endorsing false testimony. Various Vim and Mentem effects, directed at themselves or the Quaesitor, have been tried with varying success. When these ruses are discovered, members of House''
''Guernicus and allies in House Bonisagus design counter magic to expose the deception. The art in this ﬁeld is well developed and unless a magus has devoted his life to deceptive magics he would have little chance of success in 1220 AD. However, as a safeguard the Quaesitor endorsing the testimony must be senior to or at least a peer of the witness. A junior Quaesitor will consider himself unworthy''
''to endorse the testimony of older magi, in which case he will refer the witness to a more senior Quaesitor. Once the Quaesitor is satisﬁed that the magus is not using magics that might manipulate his own, the Quaesitor will cast a spell like Ear of Truth, and then thoroughly discuss the testimony to ensure that there is nothing misleading about it.''
''Of all the three arms of Order government, the Quaesitores have the least capacity to defend their position independently. As a group the Primi are fairly secure in their authority. Although it varies greatly between Houses, on average a magus will tend to follow his Primus even if he personally disagrees with a policy (to a greater or lesser degree). The authority of local Tribunals is inherently strong as the majority has an interest in its maintenance. The authority of the Quaesitores however, depends on the majority of magi and/or the Primi supporting that authority. The role of the Quaesitor often involves antagonizing powerful magi. It may well require decisions that antagonizing the majority (of a local Tribunal at least). To maintain their powers therefore, the Quaesitores need to maintain their moral authority. Magi and Primi need to value the services Quaesitors perform. They need to fear an Order without the Quaesitores; they should trust no one better to safeguard the rule of law. Although they might disagree with adherence to tradition, they should respect the person and ofﬁce of the Quaesitor who follows it. A veto should only be used in a case of a clear, unambiguous conﬂict, directly with the Code or a ruling of a higher Tribunal. What constitutes a clear, unambiguous conﬂict should be clear to all reasonable magi. This is a very limited judgment, requiring an Int + Code of Hermes roll of 6+ to determine. The exact details of this are for individual troupes to determine. However, the section on the Code given above may serve as a standard. An individual ruling might be judged against this by the troupe. If there is not a strong consensus amongst the troupe on the matter, the veto should probably not be used. Abusing the veto therefore is immediately selfdefeating. In practice the veto should never need to be used. It is there to prevent a casual slide into mob rule; magi should realize the futility of pursuing a clearly illegal position (even if popular) and give up. As the Presiding Quaesitor will have made his opinion known at the private hearing, such a case should not be brought''
''forward. If a controversial case does get a public hearing, the Presiding Quaesitor will make his position very clear before voting begins. Forcing a Presiding Quaesitor to use his veto indicates a Tribunal where Quaesitorial authority has failed. However, the rule of law is backed by the Order at large. Theoretically at least, an outlaw Tribunal could be brought to heel by the rest of the Order. Any use of a veto will be thoroughly reviewed by the Magvillus Council. If they do not agree with the veto, the Guernicus Primus will revoke it. If there is any suggestion that the Presiding Quaesitor abused his veto, the consequences are likely to be extreme. The council will wish to make a public example of the errant Quaesitor. Assuming the Magvillus Council supports the veto, it may still be appealed to the Grand Tribunal. If the issue involves a Grand Tribunal ruling, the Grand Tribunal is at perfect liberty overrule the veto; this generates a new Grand Tribunal ruling on the issue. In the case of a First Tribunal ruling, a traditionalist council might ask their allies to condemn the case in other Tribunals prior to the Grand Tribunal. This would hopefully ensure that popular opinion remains against it. A solid defeat at the Grand Tribunal should serve to embarrass the wayward Tribunal and discourage further challenges. However, if the case has great popular support within the Order, the council will mobilize allies to try to change the majority’s opinion, and the Guernicus Primus will lobby the other Primi for their support. Ultimately, if both the Primi and the populace want to contradict a First Tribunal ruling (or even the Oath itself), the Quaesitores cannot prevent it happening. Should defeat seem likely, the Magvillus Council would need to decide what action would best serve the Order. Maintaining a principled objection might do that. Traditionalists would hope that the Order would come to its senses and reverse the illegal ruling at a later date. Under a Transitionalist Magvillus Council however, a Guernicus Primus would never use his veto, unless he objected to a ruling on grounds beyond tradition.''

==The Veto==

''In perjury cases, more than one Quaesitor is normally present during testimony, each checking that no magic is being employed to fool the truth telling. Senior magi may be asked to undergo the Oath of Truth ritual, which is seen as infallible (see below). With the aid of infernal powers any magic can be fooled, and therefore this process is not totally certain. In cases with no known infernal connection, this endorsement is seen as ensuring truth. If conﬂicting endorsed testimony is discovered, there is immediate suspicion of infernal involvement. A senior Quaesitorial investigation will be conducted and both witnesses will be suspect until the matter is resolved.''

==Guernicus Magi==

''First and foremost, a Guernicus magus is a magus. His life is dominated by his magical interests. Being a Quaesitor or otherwise serving the Order is a part-time occupation. Apart from his preoccupation with the moral education of his pupils, Guernicus encouraged each to ﬁnd their own magical path. He would make great efforts to foster their natural aptitudes, seeing them as God-given and thus precious.''

==Apprenticeship==

''Guernicus apprentices receive strict instruction on morals and ethics throughout their study, so many Guernicus magi start with a good score in Philosophiae specialized in moral philosophy. Guernicus masters also set tests of investigation and deduction. Magic is not their only tool and often a basic search will reveal clues that even the most powerful ritual magic might miss. A score in Folk Ken allows the Quaesitor a chance to spot signs of guilt in other magi. Awareness (search) allows them to examine a scene and discover clues. Intrigue (plots) allows them to piece together conspiracies. The most respected Quaesitors in the Order’s history often concluded investigations without casting a single spell. Guernicus apprentices normally spend little time as lab assistants. Instructing an apprentice in Quaesitorial skills is seen as a collective duty, so apprentices are sent out to accompany other Quaesitors on investigations and arbitrations. As a master is already devoting a season a year to the magical instruction of the apprentice, he can reduce his commitment to time-consuming investigations if he wishes. Thus, the majority of the apprentice’s ﬁeld training may be conducted by magi other than his master.''
''By the time the apprentice takes his gauntlet, he should know, and be well known by, the other Quaesitors of the Tribunal. The Guernicus gauntlet consists of a written examination on the Code of Hermes and practical tests of investigation, judgment and character. These practical tests might involve a mock investigation, a Tribunal trial or both. The apprentice plays the role of a Quaesitor in pursuit of justice. Such tests often involve a secret test of moral character; the apprentice is subtly given the opportunity to cheat on a test. The apprentice’s response to this opportunity normally decides the Gauntlet. If an apprentice does cheat, he will be told he failed on an unrelated test. Thus the apprentice will believe his dishonestly was undetected. If an apprentice is dishonest three times, he will be allowed to enter House Guernicus, but not as a Quaesitor.''

==Playing a Guernicus Magus==

''There is great diversity within the House and not all are suited to investigative duties. However, all are expected to do their best if asked. If a magus is a particularly unsuccessful investigator, they can forego such activities, but unless they serve the Order in some other way they will be denied Quaesitorial status. Guernicus magi are encouraged to engage in Tribunal politics by their House, but only to promote the peace and prosperity of the Order. A score in Intrigue allows them an opportunity to see through manipulations and perceive the broader consequences. A magus with a high Intrigue score is unlikely to be fooled into supporting policies that conﬂict with his long term goals. A Guernicus magus is meant to support policies from personal conviction, not merely as a partisan. A Guernicus magus who appears too attached to particular factions within a Tribunal may be quietly warned by more senior members, as this undermines his impartiality. This ability to judge the power and position of groups is important if asked to help negotiate out-of-court settlements. An arbitrator needs to ﬁnd a way for both parties to leave the table with an acceptable compromise. The Intrigue skill will help ﬁnd or create this middle ground, if it is possible. In sagas where the Quaesitores try to enforce the integrity of Hermetic trials, this ability can be used to spot corrupt voting. Many of the particular roles given below can be taken by member of other Houses. Non-Guernicus Quaesitors are discussed above, but others can be Hoplites, advocates or magical investigators. Pursuing justice is not an activity Guernicus magi wish to keep to themselves.''

==Being a Quaesitor==

''The power of the Quaesitores comes almost entirely from the respect other magi have for the ofﬁce. The powers they have derive from Tribunal rulings and even First Tribunal rulings can be reversed if the Grand Tribunal and the Primi wish it. However, this is unlikely to happen. Guernicus was of the ﬁrm opinion that only by the continuing efforts of his line would the Order stand, and not only do magi of House Guernicus believe this, most other magi believe it as well. Guernicus and his line developed and now maintain this respect and moral authority by holding themselves to the highest standards of conduct and integrity. In a reasonably lawful saga a corrupt Quaesitor will be rare. A Quaesitor may be disliked, even hated, but few are seen as disreputable or corrupt. Of course individual sagas will vary wildly on this and all other respects. In a highly politicized Tribunal the Quaesitores may only keep their authority by lending support to important groups, making favorable legal interpretations and handing out lenient or harsh punishments. Of course, this would be the antithesis of Guernicus’s desire, but the fulﬁllment of his prophecy. A.A. 1325 (A.D. 1186), Thebes Tribunal Charges were brought against Fulmen of Guernicus by a consortium of magi lead by Archmagus Stregos. During the course of an investigation, Fulmen had discovered certain magical secrets of his target’s mystae. The magus was subsequently cast out for unrelated reasons. Fulmen needlessly disseminated this knowledge to his''
''Hoplites. Archmagus Stregos claimed that these secrets where obtained through breaching the original target’s right to privacy, even though he was subsequently found guilty of a high crime. Fulmen did not contest the charge and apologized to Stregos for his lapse in judgment. The Presiding Quaesitor set the punishment as the loss of his familiar. Heartbroken and disgraced Fulmen renounced his membership in House Guernicus, saving his Primus from expelling him. Fulmen joined House Jerbiton and established a good reputation as an advocate and legal advisor.''

==Being a Hoplite==

''Occasionally a Guernicus magus ﬁnds his magic and temperament more suited to martial magic than investigative work. This predisposition is well respected in the House, as it recalls the passionate spirit of Guernicus. Quaesitors may well feel themselves under threat during an investigation, and in such cases they can call on allies to add magical muscle to the inquiry. If a magus acquires a reputation for taking on this duty, he will become generally known as a Hoplite. A number of Guernicus magi are able at both investigation and combat. These Hoplite Quaesitors are often sent to the more lawless Tribunals, well-suited to their robust investigations.''

==Being an Advocate==

''Some Guernicus magi feel that they can serve the Order best by acting as a legal advocate. These magi take cases where principles feel threatened or are otherwise unable to conduct their case. Their fees are generally affordable even for poor magi. They also work to resolve disputes out of court, acting for one side but able to broker agreements between otherwise extremely hostile parties. Ideally Guernicus advocates work to bring peace and security to the Order. They stand between the weak and the strong and ensure justice is done.''

==Being an Magical Investigation Specialist==

''Guernicus magi with a particular aptitude are often called in to provide a brief service in support of a main investigation. These services should not disrupt their study. Most have spells that allow them travel magically and devices that enable Quaesitors to call on them as''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Whole of the Law==

''From both his statements and his policies, it is clear that Guernicus only supported the Order in so far as it allowed magi to live and study in peace. In Guernicus’s opinion, if a magus minded his own business, kept to his own property and caused no trouble to others, the Order should leave him be. This principle is strictly applied within House Guernicus. The Primus and council only ever make requests of members, never commands. The idea of the Primus or council commanding a magus is a complete anathema to the principles of the House. If a member does not wish to serve the Order as a Quaesitor, he does not have to. The title of Quaesitor is a privilege with the House, not a right. If a member does not serve the Hermetic peace or the will of the council, the title will be withdrawn, but no other penalty will befall him. He is free to live and study magic without distraction if he wishes. Only if a member disgraces the House by abusing Quaesitorial privilege will he be expelled.''

|}
''needed. In particular, a specialist is often in great demand at Tribunal for endorsing testimony. The most experienced specialists conduct research that pushes the boundaries of Hermetic Theory. One of the dreams of these magi is to break the Limit of Time. Rumors that the Quaesitores have a spell that can see into the past often circulate. If the researchers ever succeed, they will not advertise it.''

==Being a Terrae-Magus==

''Although Guernicus never pushed his apprentices into his magical interests, a number of his pupils picked up on their master’s special knowledge of Terram. Although House Guernicus is not a mystery cult, these pupils founded a cult dedicated to preserving Guernicus’s earth magic. The cult accepts magi from any House, but the leader is always a Guernicus magus. This leader always ﬁnds his way to a seat on the inner council of Magvillus. These magi are extremely ﬁerce in magical combats and often follow the Hoplite career. Amongst these cultists, many possess the divinatory ability of geomantia, making them investigators that even the wiliest fear. Many learn to summon and bargain with earth elementals. However, such magic is beyond the scope of this book.''

==Guernicus Politics and Advancement==

''Members of the outer council are encouraged to invite other regional Quaesitors and their apprentices to accompany them to the meeting. These magi and apprentices are free to observe. There is normally a feast afterwards and this gives them the opportunity to socialize. As there are less than a hundred and ﬁfty Quaesitors in the Order, virtually all know each other fairly well. Quaesitors advance in position by impressing their peers and the Tribunal at large. A series of successful investigations, arbitrations or advocacies will normally do this. Essentially Quaesitors need to gain a positive reputation, both amongst their peers and in their regional Tribunal. When they are known and respected, a position as adviser to the Presiding Quaesitor may be offered. From adviser, a term as Presiding Quaesitor is in sight. A competent Quaesitor can expect at least one term as Presiding Quaesitor during his career. To advance to the inner tier of the Magvillus Council, the magus must achieve something noteworthy; skillfully negotiating through a major crisis within their regional Tribunal or uncovering a signiﬁcant diabolic conspiracy would qualify. Via success in these difﬁcult and noteworthy endeavors a Guernicus magus gains the notice of the''
''inner council. Although the position of Presiding Quaesitor makes such noteworthy activities more likely, many young Guernicus magi have impressed the council before achieving that ofﬁce. A noteworthy success early in a career may set a magus’s career path for the very top. After gaining the notice of the inner council, the magus may be asked to lead investigations or arbitrations at cross-Tribunal or House level. This gives the magus the opportunity to extend his reputation beyond the borders of his regional Tribunal. A Quaesitor with a positive Order-wide reputation is a likely candidate should a position on the inner council, or even the post of Primus, become open. The highest position a non-Guernicus Quaesitor can hope for is the position of House representative on the outer council. Being a House representative normally puts the magus in direct contract with his own Primus. Occasionally a representative has become Primus of his House. In this event, they renounce their Quaesitorial status and seat on the outer Magvillus Council. Advancement in House Guernicus is driven by success. Under Bilera, a Quaesitor’s political views in the Transitionalist/Traditionalist debate should not be an impediment or a boon. As long as a Quaesitor follows the law as it is, lobbying for change or tradition (or return to tradition) should not affect his career. Whether reality matches this ideal depends on the attitude of the local elder Quaesitors. The policy of sending newly initiated magi to distant Tribunals inhibits the development of nepotism and local eccentricity, so as often as not a Guernicus magus does not reside in the Tribunal of their parens. As most Guernicus magi have changed Tribunal at least once, nearly all regard this broadening of horizons an important factor in a Quaesitor’s education. If a ﬁlius does remain within their home Tribunal, parentes are often overly critical in order to avoid any hint of nepotism. Thus, most new Quaesitors actively seek positions in foreign Tribunals. In addition, experienced Guernicus magi are often asked to move to troubled Tribunals by the Magvillus Council. All this tends to make Guernicus magi cosmopolitan in attitude, and although they normally respect local traditions, they tend not to be personally committed to them. This frequent migratory policy makes the culture within House Guernicus fairly uniform. There are local quirks, as would be expected in any group of about a dozen individuals. However, the group dynamics of local Quaesitors change relatively quickly as members move in or out.''

==Running Stories for a Quaesitor==

''A player-character Quaesitor provides a storyguide with the ideal hook for the occasional investigation story. However, it might become stale if run too often. Unless the storyguide wishes to make the defense of the Hermetic peace a central saga theme, such stories should not dominate. Investigations should be designed to involve all players. Typically the Quaesitor will be accompanied by one or more covenant sodales (other player-character magi), given letters of authority. Companions and grogs can make themselves useful investigating among the mundanes. If it can be managed a story might only be successfully concluded if both the magi and the mundanes uncover their respective clues, piecing the whole truth together. Stories need to be designed to work with the capabilities of the player characters. If the entire story can be closed by one use of The Penitent’s Confession, either no one should have that spell or there must be a good reason why it cannot be used. Ideally the story should make good use of hard won abilities. If a magus has acquired a spell, the''
''story should allow him to use it, at the right time and place, to good effect. This can be a difﬁcult trick to manage. However, the restrictions on scrying, even under investigation immunity, should provide enough scope to achieve this. Quaesitorial magical investigation often involves high level effects and large amounts of vis. A young Quaesitor probably does not have the spells or vis to cast them, so an investigation should normally be solvable without using magic not possessed by the character. Passing an investigation to a senior Quaesitor is humiliating and should be the last resort. However, if the player character does the majority of the work and only needs a senior Quaesitor to cast a spell to positively conﬁrm facts, this is acceptable. As a player-character Quaesitor increases in ability, investigations need to become more subtle. As explained above, Hermetic trials are rarely who-done-its. Rather they are about mitigation, justiﬁcation or lack of it. Attempts to deceive Tribunals will therefore often be aimed at mitigation and justiﬁcation. A Quaesitor who spots these attempts before trial may save the Tribunal from an injustice. Senior Quaesitors will also try to resolve protracted conﬂicts between covenants. The mire of pretty crimes on both sides may threaten to overburden a Tribunal, but if''
''left may lead to serious crimes. Where possible an experienced Quaesitor will try to prevent the situation deteriorating into open conﬂicts. Just in case it needed to be said, stories involving Hermetic law and Quaesitors should be entertaining, albeit challenging. What form the law takes in a saga should reﬂect the likes and dislikes of the troupe.''

==Allies==

''Quaesitores are not the only members of the Order who feel the maintenance of the law is important. These other magi can aid Quaesitores in any number of ways. One of the most common ways to help maintain the law is for non-Quaesitors to conduct investigations themselves. If in good graces, such magi are often given a letter of authority by a Quaesitor, which gives them investigation immunity and enables them to demand cooperation. However, non-Quaesitors need to take more care with these liberties. Events can happen so quickly that a letter of authority cannot be obtained. In these cases, authority can be given retroactively, and normally is for successful investigations.''

==Hoplites==

''Magi accompanying Quaesitors for protection are normally provided with letters of authority and play their part in the investigation. Powerful magi who perform this role become known as Hoplites. Many members of Houses Flambeau, Tytalus and Tremere value this role highly, as they often get the ﬁrst opportunity to hunt down outcast magi. The position is rewarding primarily to the Hoplite’s reputation, but can be materially rewarding at well.''

==Redcaps==

''As another House dedicated to the welfare of the Order, Mercere magi are often keen to investigate potential Hermetic crimes. Without The Gift and being so well-traveled, Redcaps make ideal agents to investigate in mundane society. Traveling across the Tribunal, they are often the ﬁrst to encounter evidence of interference with mundanes. Indeed, they are often the ﬁrst to suffer from mundane anger at such activities. Unless they possess devices invested with Intellego effects, Redcaps are at a disadvantage when investigating magi more directly. They are also by far the least able to''
''defend themselves should the need arise. Therefore, it is unusual, but not unknown, for a Redcap to conduct a direct investigation of a magus. They normally gather information in mundane society and pass it on to a Quaesitor.''

==Custos==

''Many Quaesitors employ worldly-wise custos to act as eyes and ears in the mundane world, to complement the diligent Redcaps. Many are merchants who ply their trade about the Tribunal. Those who supply specialist equipment and materials needed by Hermetic magi are often recruited by Quaesitors to keep an eye on their clients. This is done in the greatest of secrecy and the merchants are under strict instructions not to raise any suspicion. They merely pick up turb gossip and note the things they witness. If asked directly the merchant will say he is under the protection of his Quaesitorial master. When confronted Quaesitors will simply point out the beneﬁts of ensuring merchants serving the Order are under Quaesitorial care. Occasionally, but rarely, a mundane agent has been placed within a covenant as a spy. If a covenant is known to screen its recruits, the subject’s memory is altered to defeat standard Intellego Mentem screening. This use of magic is covered under investigation immunity.''

==Quaesitorial Magic==

''Since the beginning of the Order, cunning magi have attempted to use their magic to cover their crimes. From Guernicus onwards, Quaesitors have researched spells to defeat such attempts, often with the support of Bonisagus magi. Magi granted the title Quaesitor are taught the fruits of this research. Senior Quaesitors are normally happy to provide occasional spell training in investigation magic to younger Quaesitors, but their time will be limited. Lab texts are often loaned to young Quaesitors for their own study. These texts are classed among the magical secrets of House Guernicus; they are clearly marked as such and by Grand Tribunal rulings it is a low crime for a nonQuaesitor to read them (see Sanctum Law insert). Even so, Quaesitors in possession of these texts take every care to ensure their security.''

==Acute Sense==

''Intensive Quaesitorial training and techniques gives a chance to spot the tell-tale imperfections of Vim or Imaginem deceptions. This takes the form of a new mastery ability applicable to all magical sense spells. Only those who have received Quaesitorial training can take this ability. This new mastery ability is only applicable to enhanced sense spells. With this ability an altered, hidden or even a destroyed magical trace, may be sensed. The storyguide should make the following roll on the player’s behalf:''

===Perception + Penetration + Stress Die===

''The Ease Factor to detect the use of deceptive magic is 6 + the magnitude of the Might of the creature responsible for the effect or 6 + the magnitude of a Hermetic spell. If successful the Quaesitor will notice that something is not quite right. For instance, if using a Vision enhancesense spell the aura of an altered trace will look slightly crooked, a slight ripple will be seen around a hidden trace and a stain will be seen where a destroyed trace once was. He can then investigate further with other spells. This ability can be taken twice. Taking it a second time allows the magus to add his Mastery score to the perception roll.''

==Spell Traces and Sigils==

''One investigative tool is to examine active spells and the residual traces of spells (spell traces) to identify the caster. The higher the magnitude of the active spell the easier it is to detect and examine. Once a spell expires a trace of it remains, these traces also have an associated magnitude, which decays with''
''time. As a general rule, residues of magic decline as follows. As soon as the magic ﬁnishes, the magnitude halves. It then drops by one magnitude for every duration of the spell that passes; Momentary spells decay each round. After reaching zero magnitude traces associated with non-ritual Momentary, Concentration and Diameter durations decay at a monthly rate, all others decay yearly. The strength of the trace is then measured in negative magnitudes. A spell trace is normally detectable until it reaches a magnitude of –10, at which point it is completely gone. The usual method of investigation involves identifying where the illegal magic may have been targeted. If there is a body, this is the usual ﬁrst subject. The spell Restore the Faded Threads is then cast on the suspected area. This should revive spell traces to a fresh (positive magnitude) state. The investigator then investigates any traces that appear. As well as giving a unique quirk to the spell’s operation, the wizard’s sigil gives a unique signature to a spell trace. When investigated by an appropriate Intellego Vim spell, this unique mark is revealed. To a Vision spell, the sigil will be expressed as a unique pattern, to a Touch spell the sigil will be expressed as a unique shape, texture and temperature and so on. In order to recognize a previously encountered sigil, the Quaesitor should make a Perception + Awareness roll with a difﬁculty set by the storyguide. However, the Creo Mentem spell, By His Works (see below) can be used to double-check any recollection against a sigil currently present.''

===Shroud Magic===

''Unfortunately, it is a fairly easy to thwart sigil identiﬁcation by using Shroud Magic. If a magic expires under the inﬂuence of Shroud Magic the resulting trace shows a false sigil. No known Hermetic technique can divine the true sigil in this case. However, a single invention of Shroud Magic can only change the sigil into a ﬁxed alternative; each Shroud Magic spell produces a speciﬁc false sigil. Often this false sigil will be a complete invention. It might superﬁcially resemble a real magus’s sigil, but not to any scrutiny. However, a magus can attempt to mimic another magus’s sigil with a Shroud Magic spell. As the spell is designed the magus establishes an Ease Factor using the following formula:''

===Intelligence + Finesse + Stress Die===

''The inventor must have carefully studied the sigil he wishes to copy. Working from unaided memory gives a –3 penalty. Using a Creo Mentem effect to aid recollection''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sanctum Law==

''As well as protecting sanctums from invasion, additional rulings by the Grand Tribunal have added to sanctum law. Magi can protect their texts from unwelcome eyes by inscribing them with their sanctum mark. This protects the text even outside of a sanctum. A magus who reads from such a marked text is committing a low crime. By Grand Tribunal ruling a book or scroll-case can also be marked with a House symbol. This marks it as secret within the House. Any other magus who reads it is committing a low crime.''

|}
''applies no penalty. If the inventor has an example of the sigil to hand, this gives a +3 bonus. This Ease Factor is then embedded within the spell; it is not re-rolled at each casting. Working from memory an observer is unlikely to notice any error in the sigil. However, if By His Works is used the Ease Factor is tested against an observer’s:''

===Perception + Awareness + Stress Die===

''This test is made in addition to any Acute Sense test that may also apply. The use of Shroud Magic can be known by the presence of an accompanying Muto Vim trace or by the Acute Sense ability. Unfortunately the trace of the Shroud Magic also shows the false sigil. Therefore in well-planned crimes, spell trace detection can discover what spells were used, but not the sigil of the casters. Other scenes are not discovered in time for spell trace magic. In these cases the investigator needs to use other techniques to get at the truth.''

==Spells and Guidelines==


===Intellego Corpus Spells===

''THE WHOLE FROM THE PART R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind, Level 20''
''This spell needs to be cast on a current Arcane Connection to a human (or human like creature). This spell gives the caster a mental image of the subject’s essential nature. Thus the caster sees the subject without clothes, tattoos, scars or other mutilations. The spell does not target the actual subject; it only probes the arcane connection itself. Thus the spell does not need to penetrate the real subject’s Magic Resistance. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Conc)''
''SIGHT OF THE MOLTING MAGUS R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision, Level 25 This spell allows the caster to spot Corpus material (hair, blood, etc.) within his line of sight. Such material appears to glow with a reddish hue. The spell also allows the magus to estimate how long ago the item parted company from its owner by the brightness of the glow. This spell is used to place suspects in a particular time and place. The spell The Whole from the Part (see above) is often used to identify who the item belonged to. (Base 4, +1 Conc, +4 Vision)''

===Intellego Imaginem Spells===

''THE DISCERNING EYE R: Per, D: Sun, T: Vision, Level Gen An enhanced version of Discern the Images of Truth and Falsehood. You can tell whether an image has been created or altered by magic, seeing both the original and false images in the case of alterations. The enhanced sense works by extromission (sending magical species from the eyes). If these encounter any Magic Resistance, they may be blocked. Therefore an area protected by Magic Resistance will appear dark to the magical aspect of the caster’s vision. When cast without Penetration the caster is able to spot areas of Magic Resistance (which would include an invisible magus). To detect an illusion this spell must be at least ﬁfteen levels higher than the effect that generated it. However, use of the Acute Sense mastery ability may still detect an anomaly. If you botch the spell, you mistake illusions for the real thing and reality for illusion. Your discernment is not limited to visual illusions, although you can only tell that a sound is illusory if you are looking at the apparent source. (Base, +2 Sun, +1 Enhanced Effect)''

===Creo Mentem Guidelines===

''Level 4: Restore a memory of a brief event to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains. The affected mem''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Forceless Casting==

''When a magus casts a spell that targets a large area, he runs the risk of criminally affecting other magi. In order to reduce this risk, a magus can deliberately ensure the Penetration of a spell never exceeds ‘0’. In essence the magus casts the spell with no more effort than is required to avoid fatigue and opts not to use his Penetration skill. As most magi have at least a Magic Resistance of ‘0’, he can ensure that his spell will not affect them; providing he does not botch. However, Redcaps, companions and grogs will still be affected and this might still lead to charges. Forceless casting reduces risk, it does not eliminate it. Magi need to be very careful with any effect that might cause loss or injury to another magus. Forceless castings requires no particular skill or effort.''

|}
''ory can be no more extensive than a short conversation (two or three rounds). Level 5: Restore a memory of an event to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains. The affected memory can be no more extensive than about two minutes. Level 10: Restore a memory of a day’s events to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains. Events are remembered as if they had occurred only an hour before.''

===Creo Mentem Spells===

''BY HIS WORKS R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind, Level 5 Refreshes a speciﬁc memory within the mind of the caster; as long as some fragment of it remains, this spell will restore it. Once refreshed, the caster can hold the perfected memory as long he concentrates. Studying the memory effectively creates a new one which does not fade when the spell expires. This spell was created to allow Quaesitors to perfectly recall spell sigils they encounter. The spell can be used to recall other details of a brief event, like faces or voices. This spell is often used to double-check identiﬁcation. (Base 4, +1 Conc)''
''THE GOOD WITNESS R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 25 Refreshes a day’s memory within the mind of the subject; as long as some fragment of it remains this spell will restore it. The subject is asked to recall some event within the day in question as the spell is cast. Events that day are remembered as if they had occurred only an hour before. Depending on how long ago the day was, any particular event may have completely disappeared, depending on how memorable the event was. Thus some details may be recalled perfectly and others will be entirely missing. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''

===Intellego Mentem Spells===

''EAR OF TRUTH R: Per, D: Conc, T: Hearing, Level 30 The caster can tell if he is hearing the truth or not. If a speaker’s Magic Resistance blocks the enhanced sense, the caster is aware of it as an absence. Many Quaesitors develop a high level of mastery of this spell and use it with the Acute Sense ability to great effect. (Base 10, +1 Conc, +3 Hearing)''

===Rego Mentem Spells===

''TRUST ME R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 20 Occasionally a Quaesitor may need to question mundanes directly, typically grogs and companions. This spell can be used to make the process less effort and more productive. The effect simply creates a counter-balancing force on the subject’s mind. The Gift itself is not affected in any way, only the subject’s mind is. The spell is as powerful as Aura of Rightful Authority, but more subtle. The spell only acts to level the subject’s attitude to the caster, not make them obedient or unnaturally well-disposed. Since the affected person retains free will, this effect does not count as scrying. Questioning using Aura of Rightful Authority does count as scrying. (Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''THE PENITENT’S CONFESSION R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind, Level 30 The target will truthfully and willingly relate his involvement in anything the magus questions him about. The subject will do his best to inform the magus as fully as possible; he will not ramble in inane detail, be overly literal or in any other way evasive. He may bring up related matters not asked about speciﬁcally if he genuinely believes it might be of interest. This effect qualiﬁes as scrying and causes warping, so very few magi will voluntary submit to it. Magi may allow this spell to be used on their servants however. (Base 20, +1 Eye, +1 Conc)''
''AURA OF INCONSEQUENCE R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Spec, Level 25 Occasionally a Quaesitor may need to conduct investigations in mundane society. Inspired by the nonHermetic Veil all Eyes ritual (see below), this spell can be used to aid avoiding mundane attention. This spell can be cast on either the magus himself or an ally; this individual is the recipient. At any point during the spell’s duration, individuals enter the inﬂuence of this spell by looking at the recipient. The spell stops inﬂuencing people as soon as they look away. The spell’s target is rated at T: Structure. The Penetration of the spell should be noted when cast, as this applies throughout the duration. This spell simply deﬂects casual attention away from the recipient. Unless the recipient calls attention to himself or an observer is actively watchful, people will pay him no mind. If a character has some reason to be alert they are allowed a Per + Awareness roll of 12+ to noticed the recipient. The Blatant Gift reduces the Ease Factor to 9+. If the magus takes care to be inconspicuous this Ease Factor may be increased. Quaesitors with effective com''
''panions often cast this spell on themselves to avoid compromising mundane investigations with their presence. However, animals still react to the magus as normal. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Spec)''

===Intellego Terram Guidelines===

''Level 30: Commune with a natural rock. Speak with a metal object. Level 35: Commune with an artiﬁcial rock (for example, a statue) Level 40: Commune with a metal object (for example, a knife).''

===Intellego Terram Spells===

''TELL OF THE FORGED R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 45 As Stone Tell of the Mind that Sits, but can be used on even metal objects. The spirit of the object will reﬂect its function and experience. It may have acquired traits of its owner. Precisely what level of cooperation and perceptional ability a spirit will demonstrate is up to the storyguide. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''
''DREAM OF THE MIND THAT SITS R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 50 Requisite: Creo Allows you to probe the memories of a spirit within a natural stone object. The spell also perfects those memories in the same way as The Good Witness. Probing the memories of such a spirit is extremely slow. A typical session lasts between six and twelve hours, during which the caster is oblivious to the outside world. The spell allows the caster to perceive the memories of the spirit. The spirit’s senses are limited and slow, but its memory of them is very long. Using this spell the caster can relive events witnessed by the spirit, as it recalls them. Larger stone objects have more powerful spirits and so have better perceptions. Precisely what level of detail an individual spirit can perceive is up to the storyguide. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Creo effect)''
''DREAM OF THE ARTIFICE R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 50 As Dream of the Mind that Sits, but can be used on artiﬁcial stone objects and the memories of older events will be faded. The cooperation of the spirit is not required, but as always the level of detail recalled is up to the storyguide. (Base 35, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''
''DREAM OF THE FORGED R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind, Level 60, Ritual Requisite: Creo As Dream of the Mind that Sits, but can be used on even metal objects. The cooperation of the spirit is not required, but as always the level of detail recalled is up to the storyguide. (Base 40, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Creo effect)''

===Creo Vim Guidelines===

''Gen: Refreshes all spell traces within the target that are less then the magnitude of the guideline –1, in negative magnitude. Level 10: Detect any active magic and any trace of positive magnitude.''

===Creo Vim Spells===

''RESTORE THE FADED THREADS R: Touch, D: Dia, T: Circle, Level Gen Once a trace has been found or suspected, this spell is used to make it examinable. This spell temporarily restores spell traces to a fresh state (as if they had just expired). The spell will restore spell traces of negative magnitude up to the magnitude of this spell –1. The trace must still be existent to be affected (magnitude –9 or greater). Thus the maximum effective level of this spell is 50. Versions of this spell also exist for all standard Targets. Diameter duration is normally long enough to conduct Intellego Vim investigations of the spell traces. (Base, +1 Touch, +1 Dia)''

===Intellego Vim Guidelines===

''In general, separate spells are needed to analyze effects from each of the four Realms of power. Quaesitors normally learn the spells to detect and analyze magical effects, but the other spells are known. Spells could be invented to detect Infernal traces, but there would be no point. Gen: Detect the traces of magic of negative magnitude up to the magnitude of the guideline used – 2. +3 magnitudes gives the rough details of the effect and the sigil of the caster. This level also enables the Quaesitor to tell if a Hermetic effect was created by a spell or invested device. Quaesitors with extensive experience of a particular sort of nonHermetic power can also identify that; the limit is the Quaesitor’s ability to interpret the information provided by the spell.''

===Intellego Vim Spells===

''BITTER TASTE OF BETRAYAL R: Per, D: Sun, T: Taste, Level 15 If the caster comes under the affect of any active magic he will experience a bitter taste in his mouth. Ongoing affects like Aegis of the Hearth can be ignored, new affects will be noticed. This spell allows Quaesitors to detect that their Parma has been penetrated. The spell provides no other information. (Base 5, +2 Sun)''
''IMPRESSION OF THE FADED SIGIL R: Per, D: Mom, T: Touch, Level 30 This spell allows the magus to examine magic of positive magnitude. If more than one effect trace is present on the touched object, the magus can identify one per casting. In the case of Hermetic effects, this spell gives the Technique and Form, the rough details of the effect and the casting sigil of wizard responsible. It can also detect if a Hermetic effect was generated by a spell or invested device. If the effect was non-Hermetic, similar information is provided, but a Quaesitor without knowledge of that sort of magic may not be able to interpret it. This spell is commonly mastered and combined with Quaesitorial training gives a good chance to detect magical deceptions. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +3 Details)''
''ODOR OF LINGERING MAGIC R: Per, D: Conc, T: Smell, Level 30 This spell allows the magus to smell active magic or traces of –1 magnitude or more. With time and patience, all active spells and fresh traces can be located. Once located other magics can be used to refresh and investigate them. Increasing the magnitude of this basic design allows negative magnitude traces to be seen. The highest nonritual version (Level 50) allows traces of –5 magnitude to be discovered. However, to detect a –9 magnitude trace requires a Level 70 ritual. (Base 15, +1 Conc, +2 Vision)''
''SIGHT OF THE SIGIL R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision, Level 50 Used by the most experienced Quaesitors, this spell allows the magus to spot active magic or traces of positive magnitude. In the case of Hermetic effects, this spell gives the Technique and Form, the rough details of the effect and the casting sigil of wizard responsible. It can also detect if a Hermetic effect was generated by a spell or invested device. If the effect was non-Hermetic, similar''
''information is provided, but a Quaesitor without knowledge of that sort of magic may not be able to interpret it. (Base 10, +1 Conc, +4 Vision, +3 Details)''

===Perdo Vim Guidelines===

''This combination can be used to make spell traces harder to detect by aging the trace. However, a spell to magically age a trace will leave its own fresh trace; this is generally counterproductive. However, if cast with Shroud Magic it can still prove useful. So far, no way has been found of designing a spell that leaves no trace. Gen: Ages a spell trace to a negative magnitude equal to the guideline used. Gen: Dispel a Hermetic enchantment with a level less than the guideline level used + a stress die (no botch). Spell must be a ritual. Gen: Dispel a speciﬁc type of enchantment with a level less than twice the guideline level used + a stress die (no botch). To qualify the spell needs to specify a particular Hermetic Form or a specific type of enchantment, such as Talismans, Familiars or Longevity Rituals. More general enchantments do not qualify. Spell must be a ritual.''

===Perdo Vim Spells===

''CIRCLE OF CLARITY R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Circle, Level Gen This spell will dispel any active Vim effect within the circle whose Casting Total was less than or equal to the spell level + 15 + stress die (no botch). (Base, +1 Touch)''
''CUTTING THE CORDS R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Level Gen, Ritual Used as a Tribunal punishment, this spell requires the active cooperation of the convicted magus. The cords connecting magus and familiar are cut permanently if double the level of this spell – 5 + a stress die (no botch), exceeds the highest enchantment given the familiar (this may be the Familiar Bond Enchantment). This is an extremely painful and emotionally scarring experience for both parties. After the cords have been cut, both magus and former familiar ﬁnd each other’s presence too much to bear. A familiar normally ﬂees into the wilderness and avoids all future contact with magi. The former familiar cannot normally be rebound. (Base, +1 Touch)''

==Fenicil’s Rituals==

''These rituals are still largely Mercurian or preMercurian in nature. Although a Technique and Form has been given, these Hermetic Arts are not involved in the casting or learning of these rituals. The Form is relevant only for the purpose of any Magic Resistance. The Ease Factor is used for casting, calculating the Penetration and determining vis cost. The Ease Factor does not relate to any Hermetic guideline and is only vaguely linked to the power of the effect. Characters with the Unstructured Caster ﬂaw cannot learn these rituals at all. Each ritual is learnt like a Hermetic spell from a teacher. No lab total is required, but each requires a whole season. Like Hermetic spells, the ritual has an associated Ability that can be developed; this Ability is critical to successful casting. Like Hermetic rituals, mastery Ability can be gained and developed via practice. The magus practices parts of the ritual, becomes familiarized with the details and contemplates the subtleties. This process requires no vis or risk. There are also books on these Abilities; they are kept at Fenicil’s library within Magvillus. It is practically impossible for an individual to cast the more powerful rituals; a large group needs to gather in order to generate the effect. Before starting, the group needs to cast Wizard’s Communion spells with a combined magnitude equal to the Ease Factor of the ritual. The Casting Total for these rituals is:''

===Sta + [sum of Ability Scores] + Aura Modiﬁer + Die Roll===

''This roll is made by the ritual leader. If the Ease Factor is not met, the effect fails. However, the slow, methodical method of casting is quite safe. Unless stressed or disrupted there are no botch die. As well as requiring many magi, these rituals are fantastically slow to cast and prodigious in their consumption of vis. Each ritual requires a number of pawns of vis equal to its Ease Factor. Half this vis can be substituted with expensive, exotic, and meticulously prepared materials. These materials cost a pound of silver for each pawn substituted and the materials need to be prepared in a season’s laboratory activity. The Mercurian Magic virtue may act to half the vis and material costs, but all the participants need to have the virtue (rare for Guernicus magi). The advantage of these rituals is that they often generate an effect Hermetic magic would ﬁnd difﬁcult or impossible; otherwise they would be made Hermetic.''

==Greater Rituals==

''These rituals take a whole season to enact. Treat as a lab activity in terms of time commitment. As can be imagined these rituals are not cast casually, and in fact some have never been. Only experienced Guernicus magi are ever taught them or know their details. Should the Primus send word, participants should make their way to Magvillus with all speed. At Magvillus special rituals chambers are set up in constant readiness. It should be noted that there is no proof these rituals work at all.''
''CURSE OF THOTH PeVi, R: Arc, D: Year, T: Spec This spell curses another magical group with misfortune. The ﬁnal act of casting involves the blood sacriﬁce of a member of the group to be cursed. If successful, each member of the target group is tested for resistance. If the spell penetrates, the victim must always count as stressed on all magical rolls and doubles any botch dice. They also gain the Twilight Prone ﬂaw (or equivalent for nonHermetics) for the duration. Ease Factor: 78''
''CURSE OF MARS ReMe, R: Arc, D: Year, T: Spec This spell curses a nation to internal strife. The ﬁnal act of casting involves the blood sacriﬁce of a nobleman of the cursed nation. If successful, each noble in the target nation is tested for resistance. If the spell penetrates the victim is inclined to instigate or support a civil war. If a lieutenant in an army, an affected noble will be more inclined to act in a short-sighted, self-interested and tactically inappropriate way. Ease Factor: 78''
''CALL FOR JUSTICE ReVi, R: Arc, D: Mom, T: Ind This spell calls on Nemesis herself to deliver justice to a criminal. If the call is unjust Nemesis will punish those who made the call. Nemesis is known best for her hatred of immoderation. She strives to re-establishing order and proportion by punishing excesses of pride and undeserved fortune. She is merciless to unjust men of violence. As this ritual has never been attempted, what exactly would happen is an open question. Given that the other greater rituals target large groups, it is expected to be highly effective. Nemesis is thought to be an entity of the magic realm. If she physically manifested in Mythic Europe she would equal or exceed the most powerful magical or faerie beings normally present. Even the most powerful Hermetic magus would be in serious peril. However, it is''
''more likely that she would manipulate the strands of fate to bring ruin to her subject. However, if this ritual is enacted, the participants had better be totally sure Nemesis will agree with their judgment. Ease Factor: 78''

==Lesser Rituals==

''Unlike the greater rituals these see occasional use, although the costs are still prohibitive. They are known to have real effects. Again, only Guernicus magi are taught these rituals. All these rituals take ﬁve minutes for each point of Ease Factor to cast. Those below are only a selection; there may be more at the storyguide’s discretion.''
''WISDOM OF ATHENA CrMe, R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind Allows the ritual leader a +5 bonus to all Folk Ken, Intrigue and Awareness tests. This effect approaches a mythic level of perception. At the storyguide’s discretion a character under the effect of these spell can spot the most subtle clues. As the effect acts only on the beneﬁciary it cannot be magically resisted. Ease Factor: 12''
''SIGHT OF ALATHEIA InVi, R: Per, D: Sun, T: Vision Gives ritual leader the equivalent of the Second Sight ability with a score of 5 for the duration. If the beneﬁcia''
''ry already has the Second Sight ability, they gain a +5 bonus to all Second Sight rolls for the duration. This effect functions exactly like Second Sight, particularly with respect to Magic Resistance. Ease Factor: 12''
''VEIL ALL EYES ReMe (An), R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Spec Allows the ritual participants to pass unnoticed. A beneﬁciary will be ignored by everyone who sees him unless he is directly threatening. Even if noticed, people will tend to forget the encounter, particularly details of the subject. Affected people retain the sense not to walk into a subject; they know he is there, but his presence is otherwise beneath attention. In effect the subject is mentally invisible to those about him. The effect’s Penetration should be noted as it applies throughout the effect’s duration. Ease Factor: 18''
''THE OATH OF TRUTH PeCo, R: Voice, D: Spec, T: Ind This ritual can only be cast on a willing subject. At the end of the ritual, the participants link hands to form a circle around the subject. The ritual leader asks the subject to swear to tell the truth in an upcoming trial. The ritual ends when the target agrees (presumably). Dire consequences will follow if this oath is broken (death or worse). This effect resists dispelling as a 60th level spell, but seeking to dispel the effect counts as breaking the oath. As a nonHermetic spell, most magi would not be familiar enough with it to design speciﬁc counter-magics. Since the effect is passive until triggered, there is no warping. Ease Factor: 18''
''THE WILL OF ALATHEIA PeCo, R: Voice, D: Spec, T: Ind This spell can only be cast on a willing subject. Near the end of the ritual, the participants link hands to form a circle around the subject. The ritual leader asks the subject to swear to avoid a speciﬁc action. The ritual ends when the target agrees (presumably). Dire consequences will follow if this oath is ever broken (normally death or worse). Even considering breaking the oath causes nausea. This effect lasts indeﬁnitely and resists dispelling as a 80th level spell; seeking to dispel the effect counts as breaking the oath. As a nonHermetic spell, most magi would not be familiar enough with it to design speciﬁc counter-magics. Since the effect is passive until triggered, there is no warping. This ritual is occasional used as a Tribunal punishment. However, it is seen as heavy-handed and is only used in extreme cases. Ease Factor: 24''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Greater Ritual Example==

''During the Schism War, thirty senior Guernicus magi were summoned by the inner council to enact the Curse of Thoth ritual. All the inner council also joined, making thirty-seven participants. The sum of mastery abilities was 130 (average ability of about 3.5). The Primus’s stamina was +2 and the magic aura of Magvillus was +4. The die roll was 3. Thus the Casting Total for the ritual was: 2 + 130 + 4 + 3 = 139 The ease factor was 78; therefore the Penetration of the effect was 61. The end of the ritual (the sacriﬁce) was done half a Diameter after sunrise; thus at least some Diedne were caught without Parma. In any case, all but the most senior Vim specialists of House Diedne should have been affected (if the ritual had any effectiveness at all). Thirty-nine pawns of vis were consumed by the ritual, with material costing about thirty-nine pounds of silver.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
