
[|
''Other magi see these devices as tools, like a sword or a spade. They do not understand what it takes to make magical devices and that is why they cannot make them as well as we can. They do not understand that what they call tools are part of our minds, extensions of ourselves as surely as our hands and our words. The simple truth is that the crafter must put himself in what he creates if it is to be worthy of him.''
''— Verditius, the Founder''
''House Verditius is home to the master enchanters of the Order, magi who create uniquely powerful magical devices. They are craftsmen fi rst and foremost, smiths, carpenters, jewelers, masons, shipwrights, bookbinders, and cloth-makers, who imbue their products with wondrous magic. United together under a common creed and trained in the Mysteries of their Founder, Verditius magi seek personal excellence through the crafting of enchanted items.''
''Combining the talents of Mediterranean artifi cers and Scandinavian mage-smiths, they have incorporated the most recent understandings of item creation into their magic. Verdi, the domus magna of the House, sits at a cultural crossroads, infl uenced by Christian alchemical tracts, classical philosophical treatises, Muslim academics, and Jewish scholars. These infl uences are noticeable in the House’s members, magi who cross typical medieval biases of religion and race. Their desire to create binds them together.''
''House Verditius magi are also members of a secret cult, one of the Order of Hermes’ Mystery Cults, and they guard their magical knowledge jealously. Verditius magi are Initiated into the House’s Inner Mysteries through secret''
''rites and ceremonies. The basic process of enchanting items has been shared with the Hermetic public, but the more powerful practices of the House are secrets that remain well hidden among its closedmouthed members. Verditius magi take oaths of secrecy to ensure the sanctity of these secrets, and the penalties for breaking these oaths are severe.''
''Within the following pages, storyguides and troupes will discover the inner workings of House Verditius, their history and current concerns, their culture and society, and most importantly, their magic.''

==History==


==The Cult of Hephaestus==

''House Verditius’s legends trace its roots back to the ancient Greeks, who learned their smith craft from Hephaestus, the divine artifi cer and god of smiths. The legends say that he was the parthenogenetic son of Hera, who had little interest in the deformed god born lame. Zeus cast him out of Olympus and into the sea like so much refuse. The sea nymphs, Thetis and Eurynome, rescued and raised Hephaestus. They built Hephaestus a large forge beneath the sea in an underwater grotto. Hephaestus immediately began creating beautiful brooches and other jewelries for his foster mothers. One overly beautiful brooch caught Hera’s attention, and she asked Thetis where she got it. The nymph revealed her secret, that Hera’s son still lived and was forging these marvelous baubles. Hera retrieved Hephaestus and returned him to Olympus, building him a much grander forge and arranging his marriage to Zeus’s daughter Aphrodite.''
''Hephaestus’s stay in Olympus was brief. To punish his wife after a volatile domestic dispute, Zeus threatened to torture Hera. Hephaestus begged Zeus for clemency, which only angered the Lord of the Sky. Cast from Olympus a second time by his father, the god landed on the island of Lemnos, weak, wounded, and near death. The friendly inhabitants of the island nursed him back to health. Furious at his treatment at his father’s hands, Hephaestus decided to remain on''

==Key Facts==

''Population: 74 Domus Magna: Verdi, in Sardinia Primus: Stouritus Favored Tribunals: Rome and Thebes Tribunals''
''Motto: Omnia nostra instrumenta. (“All things are our tools.”)''
''Symbol: A hand with a ring on each fi nger; these are the fi ve rings that Verditius made, perhaps the most powerful magic rings in Hermetic history. Verditius made, perhaps the most powerful magic rings in Hermetic history.''

=House Verditius=

''Lemnos. He took twelve forge-companions, individuals from the island who had an inclination for the god’s industry.''

|]
''The islanders worked dutifully with the god. Two of the twelve were Gifted, and Hephaestus taught them many of his magical secrets. While their created items were powerful, none matched those crafted by Hephaestus. While his followers made lesser items, Hephaestus continued to forge many of the famous magical items of legend, given to the other gods as gifts.''
''Hephaestus did not remain at Lemnos, traveling to other magical locations and creating other forges. He retained his fondness for the island and often returned to visit. His cult prospered and grew, continuing the tradition of including both Gifted and unGifted members. Only two of Hephaestus’ other forges are known. He built one of them in Yanartas, near the Antalya Gulf in Asia Minor, on the site where the mythical Chimera fell and where fi re still leaps magically from the ground. His second, a more famous forge, he built in a cave on the island of Sardinia. This site plays a dominant role in the history of House Verditius, and is still the site of the House’s domus magna. Both of these locations were active centers for the worshipers of the Cult of Hephaestus.''

==The Cult of Vulcan==

''Several Mystery Cults changed during the hegemony of the Roman Empire, adopting different names and incorporating slightly new religious practices. The cult of Hephaestus was so transformed, despite resistance by several of its Greek members. Persuaded by pressure from the empire, the cult of Hephaestus began accepting Initiates more familiar with the Roman god Vulcan than the elder Greek artifi cer. These new Initiates slowly changed the nature of the cult; Vulcan’s Mysteries placed a greater importance on the destructive power of fi re over the natural wonders of the forge. While the cult wizards still produced magical items, the quantity of weapons produced soon overtook the number of non-lethal enchantments. Renamed the Cult of Vulcan, the cult rose in importance and power by supplying Roman Caesars and magi of the Cult of Mercury with enchanted items.''
''The fall of the Roman Empire and the Germanic invasions were particularly dreadful to the Cult of Vulcan, as were the dark years that followed. As other Mystery Cults broke up and their members began individual magical careers, the Cult of Vulcan desperately tried to retain their cult organization. They failed, discovering that they had invested too heavily in their enchanted crafting. None possessed the magical ability necessary to defend themselves in face-to-face confrontations, and many were destroyed or enslaved by powerful overlords. As more and more members fell, the leaders of the cult abandoned Rome and small groups of magi retreated to their various secret forges. Communication between the groups ceased and the unifi ed Cult of Vulcan disintegrated.''
''The smaller groups refused to cooperate with other wizards. They still produced and sold magical items, but they invented a complex network of selling agents to protect their safety. This was not foolproof, and the crafters were still sometimes found and destroyed by avaricious wizards. The cult diminished in size as cult members became increasingly distrustful of each other and of the world at large.''

==The Founder Verditius==

''Verditius was born on the island of Corsica to the widow of a blacksmith. His mother’s husband had been dead for a year prior to the boy’s birth, and people wondered who the father could be. Coupled with his immediately obvious Gift, their speculations ran the gamut from a faerie prince to a demon. As the boy’s craft skills developed, some speculated that he was a child of Hephaestus himself, returning to earth to resurrect the god’s fading Mystery Cult.''
''Verditius was raised by his uncle, another blacksmith, who started the child working at the forge at a very early age. He took to the craft with unnatural alacrity, producing his fi rst solo project at the age of fi ve: a pair of knives so sharp that they could slice through raw iron. He was a moody and brooding child, prone to fi ts of rage that often escalated into violence. At seven years of age, he killed a fellow laborer over a workshop quarrel, which sparked a bitter blood feud between his family and the laborer’s. Verditius’s uncle sent the child to Sardinia, to another smith who secretly took the boy in to protect him.''
''Though diminished in size, the Cult of Vulcan was still active in Sardinia, practicing their secret rites in the hidden forge of Hephaestus. Within weeks of his arrival, Verditius drew the attention of the cult’s leader, who recognized the incredibly potent Gift the youth possessed. He bought Verditius from the smith, trading an enchanted soup ladle for the boy. His new master took Verditius to the cult’s hideout, and began his initiation into the Cult of Vulcan.''
''Verditius excelled at the secret rites and recipes of the cult, and by his 14th year, he had mastered all of the cult’s Mysteries. The sheer number of magic items he invented was staggering, and no one had ever seen a mage-smith so skilled. Verditius was the only cult member who could understand the golden maiden of Hephaestus, an ancient automaton created by the god and left abandoned in his forge. Verditius dismantled and reconstructed the woman-shaped automaton, and even managed to make it function''

[|

==Famous Figures==

''Verditius, Founder of the House, creator of magical devices nonpareil''
''Fenistour, fi lia of Verditius, inventor of casting tools''
''Himinis the Mad, 11th century magus who developed his own Inner Mystery, the making of cursed items''
''Milo, second apprentice of Verditius, combined Boethius’ philosophy with Germanic runes to invent Verditius Runes.''
''Gelon, Verditius’s fi rst apprentice and the fi rst Primus of the House''
''Tierent, a 12th century magus who developed a method to bind the power of faeries to magic items''
''Icilius the Traitor, a 12th century magus who released the secret of the Inner House Mystery Automata to the Order of Hermes''
''for seven days before it fell idle. The cult declared that there was no more to teach the child, and that he should travel to the island of Lemnos and return Hephaestus’s fallow forge to useful glory.''

|]
''Always temperamental and headstrong, Verditius had other ideas. Instead of sailing east, he headed north, pursuing the legends of the northern barbarian smiths who could carve runes of power into their enchantments for even greater effect. The craft of the wizard-smiths of the Northmen had descended from Wayland (Völand), a legendary smith who had learned his craft from Mimer the Old, a minor deity in the Scandinavian pantheon. Wayland learned all of Mimer’s techniques before coupling them with skills learned from the black elves and the dwarfs. Wayland also apprenticed under Regin, the evil-hearted dwarf who coveted the magic ring of the Nibelungs and played an integral part in the life of Siegfried the Dragon-Slayer. Wayland lived during the fi fth century, but Verditius hoped that enough of his secrets survived in those who learned smith craft from him.''
''Verditius visited the sites associated with Wayland in the Scandinavian lands, Denmark, and England. Scattered through the northern climes, Verditius found a handful of practicing magesmiths, but they refused to teach him. However, they implied that Wayland himself still lived, removed from the mundane world and living in the otherworld. The only way to this enchanted area was through a sacred glen located in the far reaches of the Black Forest. Hoping that this might be true, Verditius traveled to the Germanic lands.''
''His search was unsuccessful until he met a raven, perched on a dying yew tree. The bird spoke, saying that the only way to reach Wayland in the otherworld was for a wanderer to infl ict a permanent wound upon himself, one reminiscent of Wayland’s wounding in legend. Driven by desire, Verditius maimed himself, removing his left foot with one deft stroke of his hatchet. Pain washed over him and he fell unconscious. When he awoke, he was lying in a bed in a large wooden lodge. Wayland had tended and dressed his wound. The master smith agreed to take''
''Verditius as his apprentice, and within two years he taught him all he knew about smith craft and rune magic.''
''During this time, Verditius constructed fi ve rings of magic, one for each fi nger and the thumb of his right hand. Using all he had learned from the Cult of Vulcan and including the runic Mysteries Wayland taught him, these rings surpassed in power anything he had ever made or seen.''
''Verditius returned to Hephaestus’s forge in Sardinia and started producing enchanted items. Keeping with tradition, he gathered twelve forge-companions to assist him. He taught the Mysteries of his magic to his Gifted apprentices, slowly reforming the old Cult of Vulcan, and grandiosely renaming it the Cult of Verditius. It was during these early stages that Trianoma found him and invited him to join Bonisagus’s burgeoning order of magi. The thought of a peaceful coalition of magi appealed to him, as he remembered his master’s stories of rapacious wizards robbing the Cult of''
''Vulcan. Learning the Parma Magica was a powerful incentive, and its effi cacy impressed Verditius. He accepted, providing Trianoma promise that he would be the only item enchanter in the group, and that none of the northern smiths would be offered entrance. Trianoma hedged on the bargain, having already agreed to a similar condition with another Founder, but fi nally agreed based on the reputation and quality of Verditius’s enchantments.''
''At Durenmar, Verditius taught Bonisagus how to enchant items, while Bonisagus taught Verditius Hermetic magic. Caught up in the rapture of their shared instruction, Bonisagus wanted to know more of the smith’s magic, but Verditius refused, claiming that he had shown the elder magus enough. Verditius quickly learned Bonisagus’s Hermetic magic, but he was never a very good spell caster. While he could cast spontaneous spells, he was unable to cast formulaic magic, despite having memorized the enchantments. Verditius stayed at''

[|
''The domus magna of House Verditius is Verdi. Found on the island of Sardinia, it consists of a squat stone tower surrounded by six taller stone towers. The main tower is a patchwork affair, initially built over the sacred Forge of Hephaestus and repaired regularly as it ages. Six towers stand in a rough circle around the main tower, each named after the Primus who created it. A vast network of caves and tunnels runs underneath the site, connecting the towers and leading to a number of laboratories and chambers. Within this rocky labyrinth is the Forge of Hephaestus, where the god forged many of his wondrous devices. While this chamber could be used as a laboratory, it primarily functions as an Initiation chamber for Verditius magi entering the Inner Mysteries.''
''The entire complex is nestled in a wooded valley, surrounded by nuraghi, slender towers made of closely stacked stone, built by an unknown race in the distant past. Although only stacked''
''stones, these are complex structures composed of inter-connecting walls and multiple-turreted towers. These abandoned “proto-castles” dot the landscape of northern Sardinia. Each also occupies a minor Magic aura, making Hermetic historians wonder about the identity of the builders. Whether the nuraghi created the magic auras or were built on existing auras, the fact remains that northern Sardinia is dotted with magical auras.''
''Verdi is a thriving community, home to just over one hundred people. Six Verditius magi make Verdi their permanent residence, including the Primus. There are at least ten other laboratories available to Verditius magi who might wish to study at Verdi for extended periods. Each laboratory includes a forge, necessary for many of the Verditius crafters, and other tools of production are available for those who engage in various trades. Even with this large number of inhabitants, many of the towers remain vacant most of the time.''

==Verdi: Domus Magna==


|]
''Durenmar for only a short time, leaving soon after he participated in the founding oath. The forge that he built and used during his stay still survives. In Sardinia, Verditius decided that Hephaestus’s Forge would serve as the foundation for his new House. He built the fi rst tower on the site and named it “Verdi.” Verditius never returned to Durenmar, instead sending his fi rst fi lius, Gelon, to attend the original Grand Tribunal meetings.''

[|

==The Early Years of House Verditius==


|]
''Verditius’s cult grew rapidly. He accepted more Gifted people as forge-companions and taught them the Mysteries of his magic. His fi rst apprentice was Gelon, who attended formal Hermetic functions in lieu of his parens. Fenistour, his second fi lia, invented casting tools, which allowed Verditius magi the ability to cast formulaic spells. Until Fenistour’s breakthrough, Verditius’s apprentices were as unable as their master to cast formulaic spells. Milo, another notable fi lius, scoured the abandoned sites of the ancient world looking for magic items created by Hephaestus. The House grew, spreading from Sardinia to Lemnos and other Mediterranean isles, the north coast of Africa, and Greece.''
''While rummaging through ruined Ravenna, Milo made an important discovery. He found several notebooks of Anicius Manlius Severinus Boethius, noted Roman statesman, philosopher, and author of The Consolation of Philosophy, a text he wrote while in prison before his execution on charges of witchcraft and treason. Boethius was also an inventor, and the texts Milo recovered described the construction of an ingenious water clock and sundial, whose unnatural accuracy was based on planetary magic rather than any nascent seeds of logic or science. Sharing these texts with Verditius, the pair discovered that Boethius’s philosophical ideas explained some of the failings of the rune magic Verditius had incorporated into his Mystery. They also discovered a tangible link between the benefi t of the carved runes and the intrinsic philosophical understanding of the carver. Seemingly, the better the enchanter understood the philosophical connection of the runes to their symbolic object, the more magical power they could imbue in the item. Just as Bonisagus had denuded ancient magic of its prayers and supplications to pagan gods, Verditius and Milo removed the pagan implications of the runes, connecting them to philosophical principles and dubbing them Verditius Runes.''

[|

==The House After Verditius==


|]
''During his years as leader of the House, Verditius rarely left Verdi, traveling only to secure magical components and other necessary resources for his projects. At the beginning of the ninth century, his ship foundered in a storm off the coast of Corsica and his hereditary enemies, the sons and nephews of the man he had slain many years ago, captured him. Typical of a Corsican vendetta, the murder had not been forgotten. Dragging the bound Verditius to the family’s patriarch, the magus was slain, his head and heart removed and his body fed to the crows.''
''Gelon assumed the role of Primus of the House, beginning the long tradition of the eldest living fi lius of the Primus assuming the role upon the leader’s demise. Gelon unwisely sought Verditius’s killers and slew them, unknowingly continuing the blood feud. This was Gelon’s greatest failing, as it perpetuated the vendetta that could have ended with Verditius’s death. It also began a terrible legacy that still poisons the House, although in a much subtler way. Gelon realized his mistake when a group of Corsican assassins penetrated Verdi and tried to kill him. Slaying the assassins only worsened the feud, and Gelon realized that it would only end after the Corsican family had the upper hand. The vendetta lasted for 30 years, fl aring up every fi ve years or so, until Gelon magnanimously bestowed the title of Primus on his fi rst apprentice and surrendered to his enemies.''
''Turnis, the second Primus of the House, did much to foster the growth of the House. He developed the arcane ritual that allowed other Hermetic magi to join House Verditius, set and enforced the current rules of the Contest (see below), and provided a free-spirited atmosphere that allowed individual magi to follow their own paths through the House’s Inner Mysteries. Perhaps in response to Verditius and Gelon’s notorious interactions with others, Turnis focused on the relationships between House members. He encouraged Verditius magi to cooperate with each other, sharing Verditius Cult''

[|
''Verditius history is contradictory when referring to the rings that the Founder made. Some sources state they were lost in Corsica, while others say Gelon recovered them. They are not in Verdi, where they properly belong.''
''A Verditius character learns that a Seeker has recently claimed to have found the rings. She is boldly announcing her accomplishments and taking the rings to Durenmar, after studying them herself in her sanctum. The Verditius character most likely wants the rings, either for personal research or to return them to their proper place in Verdi. This story could take several paths. The character could fi nd others of his House and wage a political campaign to have the''
''rings returned. He could offer to help the Seeker research the rings. He could simply attempt to steal the rings.''
''The rings themselves should be of more than historical interest. In their day, they were the supreme enchanted items, and may surpass anything crafted by contemporary Hermetic magi. Alternatively, they might be weak in absolute terms, but with capabilities that break the limits of Hermetic magic, such as the ability to heal permanently without vis. Storyguides must decide for themselves whether the Founders really were more powerful than contemporary magi, or have simply grown in the telling, and allow this decision to shape the powers of Verditius’s rings.''

==Story Seed: The Rings of Verditius==

''Lore and Initiating each other into the House’s Inner Mysteries. This introspective approach of the House is still popular, and the Primi who followed Turnis continued to concentrate on House Verditius itself rather than its connection to the Order of Hermes. While the exchange and selling of magic items is regulated, interactions with magi of other Houses are left to individual Verditius magi. The House as a whole does not manage such interactions.''

|]

==Crises in the Order==


[|
''House Verditius has always been an introverted line, focused on individual Verditius magi, their magical growth as a whole, and the specifi cs of item enchantment. Its members appreciate the peace and prosperity the Order has brought, but they have little interest in contributing to the overall scheme of its progress. House Verditius viewed events that shook the Order with little regard. House Verditius''

|]
''did not participate in the Sundering of Tremere or the diabolical depredations of House Tytalus. During the early years of the Schism War, a handful of Verditius magi were accused of selling magical weapons to both sides of the confl ict, but these accusations remain unproven. If some Verditius magi did sell magical items to House Diedne, they seem to have ceased immediately after charges were brought against them.''
''To Verditius magi, the biggest threat came in 1061, when the Order ruled that Hermetic magi could no longer sell their created devices directly to mundane society. They could, however, use unGifted intermediaries to continue these sales. Already having a substantial group of underling workers and craftsmen, the House quickly adapted members of its staff to facilitate future sales. To avoid legal repercussions, House Verditius decreased the number of items a member could sell to mundanes. The number was set at one magical item per year, and the selling maga must use her network of intermediaries during the exchange. This limit only''
''applies to mundane buyers; any number of magic items can be sold to members of the Order of Hermes. Individual tribunals have modifi ed this over the years. The Roman Tribunal, for example, allows the sale of one magical item per mundane race. A Roman maga can avoid censure by selling to a single Jew, Muslim, Genoese, or Milanese, among others.''

==Conﬂ icts in the House==

''Unlike other Hermetic Houses, House Verditius has not suffered any major internal strife during its history. While confl icts certainly arise between members, no particular situation has polarized the House into uncooperative factions or groups of dynamic opposition. Personal confl icts are often settled through “vendettas,” a term stolen from the Founder’s blood-feud with the Corsicans, but watered down to mean a long-lasting, non-violent, grudge waged between individual House members. The Primus rarely''

[|
''stops these prolonged squabbles, and the House prefers this to the legal practices of House Guernicus or the lethal practice of Wizard Wars. Vendettas are explained in detail in the Verditius Magi section.''

|]
''Near the middle of the 12th century, the House was mortifi ed to discover that Icilius, a Verditius magus living in the Normandy Tribunal, was teaching the secret of making automata to any Hermetic magus who had a mind to learn it. This secret was one of the House’s most prized, and releasing this lore to the Order was an affront they could not ignore. Icilius insidiously disseminated the secret of automata by clandestinely teaching other Hermetic magi, and then augmenting their learning with books he had written. The House ruthlessly dealt with Icilius; nearly a dozen Verditius magi declared Wizard’s War against the traitor. Icilius was hunted down and slain, but the damage was done, and automata have become much more prevalent in Mythic Europe.''

[|

==Current Concerns==


|]
''In September of 1219, Prima Imanitosi succumbed to Final Twilight while experimenting in her laboratory. Next in line for Primus was Stouritus, a personable man whose main interest is to increase the amount of goods House Verditius can sell to mundanes. He lives in the Verditius covenant of Ingasia on Lemnos,''
''and refuses to relocate to Verdi as tradition demands. Since the Primus must live in the domus magna, he desires to make Ingasia the new domus magna. The House does not know how to respond to this unprecedented situation, and there are no House means to override a Primus’s decision. The next scheduled Contest is in 1234, and it will be interesting to see how this relocation unfolds, and where the House will fl ock for the next Contest.''

==Verditius Magi==

''Like all Hermetic magi, Verditius magi are magi fi rst and foremost, steeped in magic and reveling in the power of their Gifts. Yet there is a duality to their natures that is not found among magi of other Houses, and as much as Verditius magi are magi at heart, their souls crave to create. They are as much craftsmen as magi, and both of these aspects are inherent in every member of the House. A Verditius magus without his forge, loom, or saw is like a bird without wings or a dragon without fi ery breath. Depriving a Verditius magus of his tools of production is tantamount to depriving him of his Gift, emotionally if not legally.''
''A Verditius magus’s creations are precious, each produced by the sweat and toil of its maker. Some go so far as to claim them as children; an enchanted sword is a son of its creator, while a magical brooch might be referred to as a daughter. Even a low-powered bauble, an earring that enchants its wearer with a pleasant image or a fork that spices every morsel of food, is a coveted treasure and proudly displayed until it is sold, traded, or given as a gift. Powerful items are more precious than all the gold in Spain and are jealously retained and guarded. If these items are for sale, the price is quite high. Though the item might be gone, the emotional attachment lingers. It is not unheard of for a Verditius magus to engineer the theft of a coveted item previously sold for an enormous sum.''

[|
''Despite their skill, Verditius magi are still stigmatized within the Order because they lack the ability to cast formulaic''

|]
''spells without using their casting tools. While many magi see their crafts as ingenious, they still laugh into their sleeves at the thought of a Verditius magus casting a spell, fumbling away with casting tools over the simplest Hermetic spell. Several critics even claim that Verditius magic items weaken the Order, since many of them are sold to mundanes.''

[|

==Apprenticeship==


|]
''Verditius magi fi nd apprentices much like any Hermetic magus does, seeking Gifted children from all sorts of lives and stations. Besides being interested in the apprentice’s Gift, Verditius magi also look for children who might have a natural inclination for their specifi c crafts, since much of what they teach their protégés is craft. Sometimes Verditius magi fi nd individuals who have learned some basic techniques of a particular craft, somehow fi nding a way to counter the social suspicion inherent in their Gift. However, most apprentices start their new careers without any previous craft experience.''
''Once selected as an apprentice, a child must be initiated into the Outer Mystery of Verditius Magic. This initiation takes place in the same season that the apprentice’s Arts are opened. It has been standardized over the years, allowing any Verditius magus who has the required skill to initiate a future apprentice. Like other Hermetic magi, the magus must have a score of 5 in all their Hermetic Arts. Verditius magi must also have a score of 2 in Verditius Cult Lore. The actual Initiation process is described in the Mysteries of Verditius section.''
''Apprentices are taught Hermetic magic over the usual 15-year time span. They are also taught their parens’s craft. While the emphasis is placed on Hermetic training, an apprentice is still expected to excel in his parens’s craft. While the apprentices of other Houses might have time to learn from books — if they can gain their parentes’ permission — Verditius apprentices spend any available time in the workroom, honing their craft skills as they explore their own understanding of the mystical connection''

[|
''between Hermetic magic, Verditius mystery, and the creation of items.''

|]
''During this time, apprentices are also introduced to other Verditius magi. Verditius magi like to display their creations in studios, rooms constructed to display their items and personal affects. Studios usually lie adjacent to sanctums. It is very unusual for a Verditius magus not to have a studio, since so much of a member’s reputation is based on the enchanted items he has constructed and the wealth he has amassed from their sales. Studios are often opulent chambers, with richly decorated and ostentatiously arranged plush chairs, drapes made from exotic fabrics, scented incense, and magically enhanced visual stimuli. Apprentices witness their parentes’ interactions with other House magi during the lavish dinner that accompanies these grandiose displays.''
''As apprenticeship ends, apprentices work on the “masterpiece,” a lesser enchanted item that exhibits their understanding of Hermetic magic, the Outer Mystery of the House, and their skill at crafting the item. This masterpiece is their Gauntlet, and every Verditius magus is Gauntleted in this way. The parens supplies the necessary vis, and gives the apprentice a season to work unaided in his laboratory. This is in addition to the regular 15 seasons of instruction required by the Order. If the enchanted item meets the parens’ expectations, which is often the case, the apprentice has passed his Gauntlet. The enchanted item is given as a gift to the parens, who then bestows upon the apprentice a new name, his voting sigil, and welcomes him as a full member of House Verditius.''

==Gauntleted Magus==

''After completion of her Gauntlet, a Verditius maga is fully accepted into House Verditius and included under all of the House’s auspices. She may compete in the Contest and is eligible for future Initiations into the House’s Inner Mysteries. Having already sworn at the beginning of her apprenticeship to keep the Mysteries of House Verditius secret,''
''she must also promise never to pass the secrets of the House’s Mysteries to any magus outside the House, swearing to never copy a text of Verditius Cult Lore for any purpose other than personal study. This measure was enacted in response to Icilius’s treachery, in hopes of maintaining the House’s secrets. This prohibition decreases the number of volumes in circulation, and encourages Verditius magi to cooperate with each other to increase their knowledge of Verditius Cult Lore. Once Gauntleted, a maga may begin her individual study of Verditius Cult Lore.''
''Verditius magi readily cooperate with their fellows when it comes to teaching each other Verditius Cult Lore, exploring together the mystical connections between crafting and creating, enchanting and imbuing magical energy into readied items. They enjoy long philosophical discussions that are lost upon magi of other Houses, not because they are overly elaborate, but because they ultimately center on making things. They happily serve their fellows as Mystagogues for future Initiations.''
''Most Verditius magi join covenants that include magi from other Houses. They appreciate the strengths that members of the other Houses offer a covenant, hoping to grab as much laboratory time as possible while their sodales focus on the covenant’s other concerns. They prefer the less remote covenants, since they so enjoy visiting with their House fellows. Young Verditius magi like to check in on each other, viewing the various devices on display in their studios, and sharing Verditius Cult Lore sources. The more isolated a covenant is from Hermetic society the less likely it is that a Verditius magus would wish to join it. On the other hand, covenants in the hinterlands of Mythic Europe typically have access to more vis, which is a strong motivational factor for a Verditius magus to join. Access to large amounts of vis could override a Verditius magus’s social desires. Sometimes a pair of Verditius magi reside in the same covenant, living as amici and helping each other as they mature. This proves problematic as they grow in power and arrogance, and many Verditius vendettas are started between cohabiting magi.''
''Verdi, the domus magna of the House, and the covenants on Mount Olympus and Lemnos, are exceptions to this rule, and are inhabited only by Verditius magi. These three sites are similar in appearance; they all have a number of towers standing above ground, built over a forge of Hephaestus and an underground complex of tunnels, chambers, and laboratories.''

==Journeymen and Masters==

''Verditius magi sometimes identify themselves using titles borrowed from the craft guilds: apprentice, journeyman, and master. An “apprentice” is a Hermetic apprentice, a “journeyman” is a Gauntleted magus, and a “master” is a maga who has learned at least one major Inner Mystery. This is a wishy-washy ranking system, though, since no Verditius magi has any real political power over the rest, and they are mainly used during the Contest to segregate magi into competition categories. The rest of the time, rather than these borrowed mundane titles, Verditius magi measure themselves against their fellows by their wealth, fame, and material property.''
''Verditius magi tend to have large staffs, which can be a problem at times. Verditius magi have forge-companions, unGifted individuals who help them in the day-to-day activities of their craft. Forge-companions collect wood and keep the forge going, spin wool and dye cloth, or prepare manuscripts for illumination. They know nothing of the magical secrets of the House, nor any of the arcane processes of enchanting an item. Forge-companions often have Supernatural Virtues, odd backgrounds, or other complications that inhibit them from successfully interacting with regular society. In game terms, each forge-companion may add +1 per 5 levels of Craft Ability score he possesses to the maga’s Lab Total. Forge-companions must have the same Craft Ability that the magus has and is using during a season to contribute their benefi ts to his Lab Total. A Verditius magus may have a number of forge-companions equal to his Leadership score. An apprentice is''

[|
''not a forge-companion, since he is more involved with the magical process, and does not count toward the limit on the forge-companion assistants.''

|]
''Verditius magi also have venditores, or “selling agents,” men and women who interact with the mundane world to distribute the items enchanted by the magus. Each magus has a single venditor, someone he trusts implicitly with his creations and who will wrangle the best price for the devices. These agents are typically the fl otsam and jetsam of the noble and merchant classes, people who have been excluded from the regular stations of medieval life for reasons of their past or personality. They live in the Verditius magus’s household, enjoying his prosperity and avoiding his wrath when a deal falls through. Since a given venditor only negotiates the sale of one item per year, he spends much of his time sifting buyers’ interests and traveling far and wide to fi nd the most lucrative deal for his employer. Venditores who illegally sell more items then the imposed Tribunal limit are much busier, and more careful. Verditius magi do not need a venditores for interactions with other magi, although one is often used if distance and travel time are problematic.''
''The Code of Hermes covers neither forge-companions nor venditores. While they are members of covenants, they view themselves as servants of the Verditius magi for whom they work. They are protected by their patrons’ magic, fame, and reputation. They are particularly susceptible to other Verditius magi, however, who may target them in vendettas or attempt to make them spies, leaking information about their master’s activities and magical predilections. The Peripheral Code makes little mention of them. Most tribunals have ruled that a Verditius magus’s staff is neither covered by the Code of Hermes nor considered mundanes, but that they reside in a gray area without legal protection. This suits House Verditius just fi ne.''
''Most Verditius magi spend almost two-thirds of their lives in their laboratories, working on creations and perfecting their magical innovations. They must leave their laboratories for a number of reasons, and many spend more time then they wish traveling. They usually''
''engage with others to learn the House’s Inner Mysteries. Mystery Quests to fi nd ancient magical items also occupy much of their time. Visiting other members’ studios takes time, certainly several weeks of travel. Finally, they tend to gather their own magical components, especially vis, refusing to allow others to gather these valuable ingredients for their creations.''

==The Primus==

''The Primus sits at the head of the House, the political leader and sole arbitrator for personal matters between House members. Since the House does not have a political infrastructure, this is the only position of authority. For important matters that affect the House, the Primus may ask his fellow Verdi magi their opinion, using their wise counsel to guide him, but the fi nal decision is his. Most decisions concern price-fi xing and ending personal vendettas that have grown too violent for the House’s good.''
''The Primus is chosen through a strict system of primogeniture. The Primus is always the eldest living fi lius of the previous Primus, regardless of his rank, knowledge, or maturity. The Primus can trace his personal lineage directly to Verditius, and gains his authority over his fellows due to his line. The House fully accepts this method, which removes most of them from succession concerns and allows them to concentrate on their craft.''
''The Primus is concerned with the longevity of his House. He sets prices for magical items, deciding if he should change the current price structure to accommodate the many demands that it is too low. He has no control over what other Hermetic magi might charge, and often hears his fellows complaining about this fact. While the Primus cannot decide to raise the limit on the number of magic items members can sell to mundanes, his support would be essential to any campaign to convince the rest of the Order to do so. He participates in the politics of the Order of Hermes, the only Verditius magus who must attend the Grand Tribunals and the regional gatherings of the Rome Tribunal, although he''
''may send another Verditius magus to act as his legate. The main goal of past Primi has been to keep their House removed from the major decisions of the Order, preferring independent isolation to supporting any of the political agendas of the other Houses.''
''The Primus has a limited sphere of authority over his fellows. In cases of suits of reparations between one magus and another, he can set fi nes or demand that one pay the other a set amount of vis in compensation. Few magi bring such suits, as many prefer to work the situation out between them, usually with a short-term vendetta until one party submits to the other’s wishes. The Primus makes sure none of the vendettas overtly break the Oaths of Hermes of the participants. He may declare that the feuding parties must either declare formal Wizards War against each other or cease their squabbling. His ultimate threat is to turn the participants over to House Guernicus for their judgment, which has always been effective in quelling the animosity between the feuding parties. Finally, he decides the winners of the Contest in the case of voting ties.''
''As mentioned earlier, the current Primus of House Verditius is Stouritus, who lives in the covenant of Ingasia on the island of Lemnos, and desires that Ingasia replace Verdi as the domus magna of the House. Other than that, he seems, so far, to be a fairly typical Primus.''

==Prices for Enchantments==

''There is always a price for a Verditius maga’s work, either a barter of goods or services, or a straightforward payment of vis. The standardized price of an item is twice the vis necessary to make it, in addition to the vis required for the project. If the project does not require vis, the Verditius magus fi gures out how much vis he could extract during the time that it takes to fi nish the project, and doubles that amount as the price. The client must also include any necessary ingredients in the bargain. The House regulates prices charged to mundanes as well. The Primus has decreed that 15 Mythic Pounds times the vis cost of an item is a suitable price.''
''The Primus, who has attempted to keep the price of magical items universal throughout his House, has fi xed these costs. Prices fl uctuate over time, infl uenced by such banal economic factors as supply and demand, availability of raw materials (vis), and infl ation. Magi who charge more or less then the current price may incur the anger of other House magi, who typically complain that aberrant prices affect the market as a whole, devaluing their items and hindering their prosperity. The typical response is for an offended magus to declare a vendetta against the price-gouger.''

[|
''The price of a magic item is also dependent upon your saga and the cost in Mythic Pounds of a pawn of vis. Many “standard” sagas set the price of a pawn of vis at 10 Mythic Pounds. The offi cial House price of an item sold to a mundane buyer should be 1.5 times the amount of Mythic Pounds equal to a pawn of vis. Verditius-enchanted items should be expensive, and only the wealthiest mundanes should be able to afford them.''

|]
''These prices only refl ect House Verditius’ attitudes toward selling enchanted items. Other magi may charge whatever they wish for their enchanted devices, if they wish to charge for them at all.''

==Vendettas==

''Vendettas are personal grudge matches that two Verditius magi wage against each other. The term itself is stolen from Corsica, where it means a protracted, lethal blood-feud between families. While Verditius and Gelon participated in such a feud, Verditius magi do not. The term “vendetta” is fl ashy and suits House members’ grandiose conception of their own identity. Verditius vendettas are not lethal, nor always hereditary, meaning that a magus’s apprentice does not necessarily continue the vendetta once being Gauntleted.''
''The House views vendettas with a certain sense of honor. When two magi engage in a vendetta, they commit to''
''antagonize or outdo each other until one submits and declares the other a more powerful magus. While the participants bristle at their wounded pride, the House beams as these two engage in such an honorable tradition.''
''Vendettas arise when one magus feels insulted by the actions of another Verditius magus. Both magi are most likely elder magi, grown swollen with pride through their accomplishments. Any perceived loss of personal honor, social slight, misunderstanding, or seeming insult can trigger a vendetta. The magus beginning the vendetta initiates a malicious or vengeful move against his opponent, openly declaring that he is responsible and daring his opponent to respond. Refusing is a sign of weakness, and any magus who refuses a vendetta gains a bad Reputation of Dishonorable 4 in the House, as well as losing enough experience points to lower his Hubris score (see below) by one point. He can lose this Reputation by regaining Hubris experience points until he regains his original Hubris score, and waging a vendetta against the magus who he originally refused.''
''Feuding magi seek to undo the good name or reputation of the other by interfering in his life through subtle means. They do not seek the other magus’s death; far from it. They view the other as an honorable opponent. Magi typically seek to prevent the delivery of sold items, delay the arrival of raw materials, contaminate personal vis sources located outside the other’s covenant, or even make inferior magic items and sell them in the other’s name. Vendettas can last for years, each magus subtly and patiently trying to undermine the other.''

[|
''Verditius magi do not commit High Crimes during a vendetta, although many “attacks” could be considered Low Crimes. The participating magi, who would rather wage the vendetta than seek proper legal recourse, do not take these crimes to Tribunal. Occasionally feuding magi attack each others’ forge-companions or venditores. This is rarely done directly, but rather, is usually executed by a feuding magus’s own assistants. Vendettas have resulted in the deaths of forge-companions and venditores, because the Peripheral Code holds that killing forge-companions and venditores is not “depriving a magus of his magical power” nor “interfering with mundanes”.''

|]
''The Primus stops vendettas that threaten to grow beyond this level of violence by threatening to turn the matter over to the Quaesitors. Vendettas are not secret affairs in the House; many Verditius magi delightfully discuss the specifi cs of a vendetta happening between two magi. They only exist within House Verditius, between Verditius magi; magi of most other Houses take attempts to start them straight to Tribunal, and the other members of House Verditius do not recognize them.''

[|

==The Contest==


|]
''In 802, Verditius’s fi lius Milo discovered one of the treasures of Hephaestus, the mechanized torture chair used by Zeus to interrogate his wife Hera. Returning it to Verdi, Milo and Verditius’s fi rst fi lius, Gelon, quarreled over who should possess the chair. Verditius decided that owner''
''ship would be awarded to the fi lius who could invent the most wondrous magical item, giving them a year to complete the task. He summoned all the Verditius magi in the Order to judge the event. Gelon won the contest, and benevolently gave the chair to Verdi rather than accepting the item himself. This was such a wellreceived event that Verditius decided to hold it again, eighteen years later, this time allowing all of his line to participate. This tradition has lasted throughout the centuries; even the Schism War did not interrupt the Contest of 1018.''
''Every eighteen years, all able-bodied Verditius travel to Verdi for the Contest. Verdi fi lls with magi, apprentices, forgecompanions, selling agents, and other hangers-on, stuffi ng the unused towers of the previous Primi with guests. Magi bring their most fabulous magical item to enter in the competition. Those without an entry still come to participate in the judging, meet old friends, make new contacts, and cast sour glances at rivals. The event begins on Midsummer Eve and lasts for a week. The fi rst half of the week is reserved for feasting, House meetings, Initiations, and other Verditius business. The judging of items occurs during the last three days.''
''The actual Contest takes place in a Greek-style temple built in a Magic regio that lies just outside Verdi, accessible through one of the ancient nuraghi. Only Verditius magi are allowed within the regio, which is protected by guards and magical wards to prevent others from entering. The Contest has three categories of competition: items crafted by apprentices, journeymen, and masters. All of these entries are on display throughout the week. The apprentices’ devices are judged on the fi fth day, the journeymen’s on the sixth, and the masters’ on the fi nal day. The assembled Verditius magi serve as judges, casting their voting sigils for the entry that they deem most unique or clever. The magical power of the device is not the only criteria for winning, and items are judged according to their usefulness, inventiveness, beauty, cost in construction, and innovative nature. Majority vote wins, with the Primus deciding in the case of a tie. All of the entries become the property of Verdi.''
''Winners are lauded with acclaim and respect. Each category winner selects an item from the vast stores of Contest entries as her prize. The master category winner selects fi rst, choosing three items for himself, the journeyman winner chooses two, followed by the apprentice winner who chooses a single item. None of the winning devices may be selected as prizes until the next Contest.''

==The Mystery Cult of Verditius==

''The House of Verditius is a Mystery Cult and has much in common with the many smaller, esoteric Mystery Cults of the Order of Hermes. Troupes familiar with The Mysteries Revised Edition will recognize familiar features from the Cults described in that supplement.''
''The process of gaining knowledge of the Cult’s Inner Mysteries is structured, but not formalized. House Verditius has four Minor and four Major Inner Mystery Virtues. Magi are allowed, even expected, to learn the House’s Inner Mysteries in any order they wish, matching their individual needs and goals to suit their tastes. Some Verditius magi band together in confraternities, small groups of likeminded individuals who follow a path formed by an earlier, charismatic magus. Naturally, it is easier to learn some of the Inner Mysteries than others, and many Verditius magi follow similar paths toward their achievement of deeper Initiation.''
''Verditius magi usually learn Inner House Mysteries from other House members, rather than serving as their own Mystagogue. The House is gregarious enough within itself for this to occur easily. This is an effective way of spreading the Cult and accounts for the initial rapid growth of the House. Magi may also Initiate themselves into Inner Mysteries, acting as their own Mystagogue and following typically more diffi cult Initiation Scripts.''
''Progressing through the Inner Mysteries bears a price. As Verditius magi''

[|
''learn more Mysteries, growing in power and abilities, they also grow arrogant and egotistical. Hubris is the mark that scars Verditius magi, an unavoidable consequence of learning the Founder’s magic. Magi Initiated into the Inner Mysteries gain a Hubris Personality Trait, which affects both their interactions with others and their created devices. Hubris is explained in detail below.''

|]

==Initiation into the Mysteries of Verditius==


[|
''House Verditius has been an open Mystery Cult of the Order of Hermes since the Founding, and their Cult Initiations have been thoroughly contemplated and organized. The process of Initiation grants the Initiate a new Mystery Virtue, as explained in the Introduction, The Mechanics of Initiation. The Initiations of House Verditius follow these rules, with a few minor exceptions and Script bonuses particular to the House.''

|]
''A Verditius Initiate does not need a score in Verditius Cult Lore to be initiated into the Outer Mystery of the House. This Initiation happens during apprenticeship. You do not need to retrofi t a Verditius Cult Lore score to existing Verditius characters.''
''The formula for Initiation is derived from the Mystagogue’s Initiation Total, which is repeated here.''

===Initiation Total = Presence + Verditius Cult Lore + Script Bonus===

''Initiation Target Levels are the same as for the other Mystery Houses, and are listed in The Mechanics of Initiation section.''

===Verditius Initiation Scripts===

''House Verditius has several specifi c Script components that generate certain bonuses:''

[|
''+3 The Initiate must travel to one of''
''the Forges of Hephaestus or another specifi c place at a specifi c time.''

|]
''+3 The Initiate must perform a specifi c''
''Quest, often locating and retrieving a magical item. These magic items, made by famous Verditius magi, have become lost through mishap, theft, or even sale. Locating a dead Verditius maga’s talisman is a common specifi c Quest. +6 The Initiate must perform a unique''
''Quest, usually fi nding one the world’s unique magic items that have been lost since antiquity. Often these are magic items made by Hephaestus or Wayland Smith, but other legendary treasures are also included in this category. +3 The Initiate undergoes an Ordeal''
''that infl icts a Minor Flaw during the Initiation. +9 The Initiate undergoes an Ordeal''
''that infl icts a Major Flaw specifi ed during the Initiation. +1 The Initiate Sacrifi ces time, per''
''forming specifi c functions or serving another House member (one bonus only). +3 The Initiate Sacrifi ces a lesser enchant''
''ed item whose combined powers are of at least the fourth magnitude. +6 The Initiate Sacrifi ces a greater''
''enchanted item whose combined''
''powers are of at least the seventh magnitude, or his talisman. +3 The Mystagogue Sacrifi ces time, usu''
''ally specialized teaching or training. +1 The Mystagogue Sacrifi ces material''
''wealth, typically one Mythic Pound per point of the Initiate’s Hubris score (one bonus only). +6 The Initiate is taught the Outer''
''Mystery at the same time as her Hermetic Arts are opened.''

==The Outer Mystery of Verditius Magic==

''The fi rst step in becoming a Verditius magus is to be inducted into the Outer Mystery of the House: Verditius Magic. The Initiate does not have any knowledge of Verditius Cult Lore at this time. The Initiation happens during the season that the apprentice is opened to the Hermetic Arts. Master and apprentice spend a season together, preparing for the Initiation. During this time, the apprentice serves as the master’s student and must work slavishly at the tasks assigned. This is a foreshadowing of his life as an apprentice, but is much more severe, considering''

[|
''Just like the members of other Mystery Cults, Verditius magi must have intimate knowledge of their Mystery, including its history, operations, practices, lore, and legends. The Ability Verditius Cult Lore covers all of the secrets of the House, including the arcane rituals and formulas necessary for the actual practice of Verditius magic, as well as information about the House, its current members, appropriate methods of fi nding and instructing Initiates, and correct social behavior when interacting with peers. This is an Arcane Ability, usually learned by a maga after her apprenticeship.''
''Verditius Cult Lore is increased just as any other Ability, through the regular methods of study available to characters. The most common method of instruction is Teaching, one Verditius member pass''
''ing his knowledge down to others, often in a single student-teacher combination. Good teachers may teach more than one student at a time, but the preferred method is to teach a single student.''
''Since House Verditius is so focused on crafting items, other members of the House may also Train Initiates in Verditius Cult Lore. This is a more hands-on approach than Teaching, and the Initiate goes through the secret practices and arcane rites alongside her instructor. Training allows every Verditius magus who has at least a Verditius Cult Lore score of 2 to instruct the lower Initiates in the House’s secrets, which helps to propel the House members as a whole deeper into the Inner Mysteries. Training Initiates is the most popular method of instruction for House Verditius.''

==New Ability: Verditius Cult Lore==

''the usually young age of the apprentice. Coupled with the diffi culty of the introduction to the Hermetic Arts, this is an especially arduous three months for the apprentice.''

|]
''As the season ends, master and apprentice journey to one of the sacred sites revered by the House, one of the three Forges of Hephaestus, which are located at Verdi, the island of Lemnos, and the shoulders of Mount Olympus. Depending on where the pair reside, this journey might extend into a second season. The master acts as the Mystagogue, guiding the apprentice through the Initiation. The master casts an amount of money and jewelry into the forge, beseeching the legendary powers of Hephaestus, Wayland Smith, Boethius, and Verditius himself to accept the apprentice. The forge consumes the money and the apprentice falls unconscious. He rises anew, a legal apprentice to his parens and an Initiate to the House. He gains the Minor Hermetic Virtue Verditius Magic. Mechanically, the Initiation Target Level is 15. The Mystagogue needs a Presence + Verditius Cult Lore of 3. The Initiation Script has a bonus of +12 (special place, Sacrifi ce of Initiate’s time, Sacrifi ce of Mystagogue’s time, wealth Sacrifi ce, and Arts opened during Initiation).''

==Learning the Inner Mysteries==

''Progressing from the Outer Mystery to the Inner Mysteries depends upon the Mystagogue’s knowledge of the House’s secrets, refl ected by his Verditius Cult Lore score. The House has set requirements for a Mystagogue before he can Initiate others, and all agree to this wise course of action. Understanding the responsibility that comes with teaching more Inner Mysteries is vital.''
''Verditius Cult Lore is more important for the Mystagogue than the Initiate, since the Initiate’s score is not calculated into the Initiation Total formula. Nevertheless, the House deems it essential that the Initiate understand enough of the House’s Cult Lore to fully appreciate and responsibly engage in the magic each Inner Mystery confers. The House also expects its members to act as Mystagogues to each other, passing the Mysteries from one generation to the next. Receiving Initiations without leading others through them is perceived as being selfi sh, and such magi receive a bad House Reputation of Selfi sh 4. Other magi are reluctant to act as Mystagogues for such members. This Reputation can lessen over time if the magus changes his selfi sh ways.''
''A Verditius Cult Lore score of 1 covers the basic tenets of the Cult, primarily its history and philosophical foundation. A magus must increase his score to 2 before Initiating an apprentice whose Arts he wants to open at the same time. When his score is 3, he may receive Initiations into the House’s Minor Inner Mysteries. A magus may be Initiated into as many Minor Inner Mysteries as he wishes, in any order, regulated only by his time, desire, and completion of the detailed Initiation Scripts. He should have a Verditius Cult Lore score of 5 before he is Initiated into any of the Major Inner Mysteries. In addition, with such a score he is considered a master and may compete in the highest level of competition at the Contest.''
''Scripts exist within the House to guide the magus’s path. Exact Scripts are left to the troupe and storyguide to develop, following the suggested bonuses listed above. The most common method for learning new Inner Mysteries is to fi nd a Verditius magus who already possesses the Inner Mystery the Initiate desires and follow the predetermined Script to learn the Inner Mystery. The less common approach is for the magus to Initiate himself. He loses the advantage of a Mystagogue’s Verditius Cult Lore score, and the Initiation Target Level is increased. Magi following the path of self-Initiation tend to create and sacrifi ce several enchanted items to achieve their goal.''

==Hubris==

''Regardless of the particular Minor Inner Mystery a magus learns, his fi rst Initiation into an Inner Mystery is always accompanied by an Ordeal that gives him the Minor Flaw Hubris. Every Verditius magus who seeks knowledge of the Inner Mysteries is plagued by this psychological shortcoming, the growth of exaggerated self-esteem. The magus realizes the worldly benefi ts he can reap from his magical creations, and his prideful image of himself blossoms. At fi rst this is just a slight personality shift, but as the Verditius magus profi ts from his magical craft, his estimation of himself grows. This trait,''

[|
''Hephaestus made many enchanted items for the Greek gods. Your troupe might know of some of them, like the armor of Achilles. Since quests for these items play a signifi cant role in House Verditius Initiations, a list of Hephaestus’ treasures follows.''
''A mechanical torture chair that was used by Zeus on his wife, Hera A bronze hunting net that Hephaestus used to catch his wife, Aphrodite, and her adulterous lover Ares An assortment of ornamental brooches and combs Golden leg-supports that Hephaestus needed to walk''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''Twelve golden mechanical women (automata) Twenty stools with three legs each, that moved and assisted Hephaestus at the forge The weapons and armor for Athena “Pandora,” a clay woman for Zeus A golden ferry boat Talos, the bull-headed bronze statue that guarded Crete Dionysus’s crown, made of fi ery gold and gems from India A golden mastiff (automata) Bronze greaves and a stout shield for Hercules Tin greaves for Achilles The golden urn that was used to collect Achilles’ ashes''
''•''
''•''
''•''
''• • •''
''•''
''• •''
''• •''

==Magic Items of Hephaestus==


|]
''which affl icted the Founder, is inherent in the magic of the Inner Mysteries. In game terms, characters receive the Minor Personality Flaw Hubris and the corresponding Personality Trait Hubris 1.''
''Hubris is more than merely a Personality Trait. While it contains all the game aspects of a Personality Trait, it is also a measure of the degree that a character has succumbed to the curse of pride that plagued the Founder. A propensity for pride is part and parcel of the Mysteries of House Verditius. The intrinsic magical link between Verditius’ arrogance and his arcane crafting caries through to his descendants. A Verditius magus’s pride is''
''mystically coupled with his Gift, and as his Hubris increases so does his ability to instill greater amounts of magic in items that are similarly connected to him. A Verditius magus can add his Hubris score to his Lab Totals for creating a talisman, enchanting casting tools (Minor House Inner Mystery), binding magical animals, making automata, and creating attuned items (Major House Inner Mysteries).''
''For roleplaying purposes, the specifi c fl avor of a magus’ Hubris should be noted in parentheses after the Personality score. Hubris does not manifest in all magi exactly the same way. Some are overly proud, some arrogant, some pompous.''
''Characters that already have the Minor Personality Flaw Proud have their Hubris score automatically increased by 1, and those with the Major version of the Flaw increase their Hubris by 3.''
''Hubris increases over time, building like an Ability. Hubris cannot be deliberately changed by the player, unlike other Personality Traits. Specifi c situations grant experience points that are applied to a character’s Hubris score. If a Verditius magus receives recognition, fame, money, or vis for his magical efforts, his Hubris score increases. While a degree of pride is inevitable for every Verditius magus, a completely conceited nature is avoid''

[|
''During the tenth century, a handful of Hermetic magi, recently Gauntleted in other Houses, wished to enter House Verditius and learn its Mysteries. The House was reluctant and initially refused these infrequent requests. Traditionalists from the House thought it irreverent to the old ways, when members worshiped the gods. House politicians thought including other magi would undermine the equality of its current members. The overriding concern was that Hermetic magi could already cast formulaic spells without the need of casting tools, and if they were accepted into the House, it would put the other House members at a severe disadvantage.''
''However, by studying the House’s Outer Mystery, exploring Boethius’s philosophy, and building upon his vast knowledge of Perdo magic, Primus Turnis developed a ritual that would change the Gift of the probationer. Upon recovering, the probationer’s Gift would be permanently altered, with the mystical connection between her heart, head, and hands destroyed. Forever after she would be forced to use casting tools and would never be able to evoke a formulaic spell thereafter without these required components.''
''There are dangerous side effects to this ritual. The probationer gains Warping Points and usually falls into temporary Twilight. He also develops the Personality Trait Proud 1, and an ava''
''ricious obsession with wealth, equaled by few in the House and reminiscent of the Founder’s desire for monetary gain.''
''The process of Initiating a magus from another House is long and arduous, and involves more than merely casting the ritual spell on the probationer. Applicants must fi rst prove their loyalty to House Verditius. They must sever ties with their old House, losing any commitments, goals, or political advantages they may already have. They must meet with the Primus, who selects a Mystagogue from among those members of the House who know the required ritual spell. It is the probationer’s responsibility to convince a reluctant Mystagogue to Initiate him. Very often probationers must serve the House for a period of time, helping Verditius magi outside the laboratory, aiding in the various tasks and endeavors that interest House members. Probationers are not allowed to work within a Verditius maga’s laboratory. Accompanying a Verditius magus on a dangerous journey, retrieving a stolen artifact, destroying an enemy, and slaying a mystical beast for its vis are all methods used to test the probationer’s loyalty.''
''Once accepted as a future Verditius magus, the probationer spends a season with the Mystagogue, preparing for the ceremony, undergoing the ritual spell The Embrace of Boethius, and recovering from its effects. Once the season ends, the magus is an Initiate of the Outer Mystery of''
''Verditius and a member of the House. He receives the Minor Hermetic Virtue Verditius Magic and gains a Reputation, Convert 1, in the House, a slightly disparaging title to older members of the House. Lastly, the effects of a possible temporary Twilight must be calculated.''
''This is a unique Initiation and does not follow the rules of regular Verditius Initiations. Only a few Mystagogues know the necessary spell to complete the Initiation, although copies of it exist in the major covenants of the House. Characters undergoing such a transformation start their new career with a clean slate regarding future Initiations, and do not receive a bonus for undergoing this specialized Ordeal.''

===Embrace of Boethius===

''PeMe 35 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part, Ritual Req: Vim, Corpus This spell damages the target’s mind, heart, and Gift, destroying a part of his understanding of formulaic spell casting and forcing him to rely on casting tools. This highly irregular spell was developed to initiate Hermetic magi of other Houses into House Verditius, and is only used in that rare instance. Because of the bizarre nature of this spell, the target receives 7 Warping Points and must check to avoid temporary Twilight.''
''(Base 15, + 1 Touch, +1 Part, +2 necessary requisites)''

==Initiating Hermetic Magi==

''able. Those wishing to keep their Hubris score low need merely avoid many of the behaviors (see the insert) that increase that score.''

|]
''The higher a magus’s Hubris score grows, the harder it is for him to resist situations likely to further increase it. A magus with Hubris 4 will be quite tempted to continue to sell magical items, for example. If a character wishes to resist such temptations in hopes of maintaining a low Hubris score, you can make opposed Personality Trait rolls. This assumes the character has a Personality Trait that she can uses against her Hubris score. She can also spend a Confi dence Point to walk away from the situation.''
''Magi with Hubris scores of 6 and higher are extremely self-centered. These are the magi most prone to engage in vendettas with other Verditius magi, usually with those as self-centered as themselves. Resisting a declared vendetta is diffi cult. If the maga wishes to resist, you must make an opposed Personality Trait + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of your maga’s Hubris score + her challenger’s Hubris score. You may substitute her Intelligence if she does not have a Personality Trait that works opposite Hubris.''
''Demons and other Infernal agents are quite aware that Verditius magi are susceptible to the great sin of pride, and many lick their chops in anticipation as a maga advances through the Inner Mysteries. Some offer seemingly innocuous assistance to young magi to propel them on their arrogant path: anonymous gifts of vis, coincidental deliveries of Verditius Cult Lore texts to copy, and accidental meetings with wealthy clients willing to pay large amounts for minor magical gewgaws.''

==Ordeals==

''House Verditius has developed several Ordeals to assist Initiates in achieving additional Inner Mysteries. The fi rst Ordeal, undertaken to learn the fi rst Minor Inner Mystery, always grants the Minor Flaw Hubris. Further Ordeals may be used in ways that best fi t your saga. They may be connected to specifi c Inner Mysteries, necessarily undergone in a specifi c order, or available in any combination for any Inner Mystery. Verditius magi have successfully used the following Ordeals to''
''Initiate their fellows. Each Ordeal may only be used once by a single magus. sever tHe ties tHat Bind (Major or Minor Ordeal): The Ordeal causes the Initiate to lose whatever emotional bonds he had to his family and friends, and prohibits him from reforming such familial attachments. This can impart either a Minor Flaw or a Major Flaw, depending upon the severity of the attachments severed. The Minor Flaw causes a Verditius magus to expel his family and his forgecompanions from his life, and includes any friendly attachments he may have had to mundane people. The Major Flaw causes the Verditius magus to completely withdraw into himself. He must destroy his familiar, if he had one, and cannot bind a new one. He also must abandon his apprentice. This Ordeal should be rare, as it undermines many of the communal tenants of House Verditius, but it is very appropriate for magi wishing to learn the Inner Mystery Bind Curses. Verditius magi in the line of succession of the Primus may not undergo this Ordeal. self-Mutilation (Major or Minor Ordeal): Following the precedent of Verditius himself, many Verditius magi perform acts of self-mutilation, usually of their legs, scourging their bodies in an effort to elevate their souls. Three Flaws can result from this Ordeal: Crippled, Hobbled, or Lame. The wounds resulting from this self-mutilation cannot be healed, either by physical or magical means. While the initial bleeding and breaking of bones can be remedied, the long-term damage cannot. The bonus received depends on if the mutilation results in a Minor or Major Flaw. Prone to cHance (Minor Ordeal): This ordeal changes the magus’s personality, making him extremely keen on risktaking and experimentation. After undergoing this Ordeal, he must experiment on every laboratory activity that allows experimentation, loving the thrill of the unknown and its unexpected outcomes. He receives the Minor Ordeal Flaw Prone to Chance. This Ordeal is incompatible with the Ordeal Averse to Risk. averse to risk (Minor Ordeal): This Ordeal alters the magus’s personality, making him excessively reluctant to undertake laboratory activities that''

[|

===Behavior Experience Points===

''Selling or manufacturing for another a charged item or an item of quality for pay in either money or vis.''
''Repairing or re-forging an item for another for pay. 1''
''Selling or manufacturing for another a lesser enchanted device.''
''Selling or manufacturing for another a greater enchanted device.''
''Selling or manufacturing for another an attuned item. 6''
''Selling an automaton. 1/magnitude of Might''
''Winning the apprentice category of the Contest. 1''
''Winning the journeymen category of the Contest. 3''
''Winning the master category of the Contest. 6''
''Learning a new Minor House Inner Mystery. 1''
''Learning a new Major House Inner Mystery. 3''
''Declaring a vendetta. 1''
''Winning a vendetta. 3''

==Increasing Hubris==


|]
''involve risk. While he may still practice the skills of the Minor Inner Mystery Reforging Items, he may never experiment on laboratory activities. He receives the Minor Ordeal Flaw Adverse to Risk. He may not undergo the Ordeal Prone to Chance. increased HuBris (Minor Ordeal): This Ordeal makes the magus more proud, pompous, arrogant, or whatever form his Hubris Personality Trait takes. He willingly becomes more self-centered and prideful, knowing that this has the potential to distance him from his fellows. You gain enough experience points in your magus’s Hubris score to increase it one level.''

[|

==Confraternities==


|]
''The life path of a Verditius maga is fi lled with individual choices. Most pick and choose the Inner House Mysteries they want, disregarding those that do not suit their private goals. Some Verditius magi have chosen otherwise and follow prescribed paths built by an earlier magus, based upon specifi c crafts and Inner Mysteries. These sub-cults within the House are called confraternities, and are like-minded groups, usually parentes and their fi lii, who have a set agenda for their magical careers.''
''Confraternities have few members. House Verditius is one of the smaller Houses of the Order, and these subsets of magi only contain four to eight followers at any given time. They readily assist each other through the Initiation rites, and it is rare for members to have vendettas against other members.''
''Each confraternity has a unique Inner Mystery available to its members, a less specialized Virtue that mirrors a common Hermetic Virtue, sometimes with an accompanying Flaw received through the Initiation. Those accepted into a confraternity are Initiated into this specifi c Mystery, as well as taught any Craft Ability that might be the focus of the confraternity. Each confraternity described below — from which troupes may pick and choose, in addition to creating new confraternities — is provided with one example Inner Mystery Initiation Script.''

===The Confraternity of Roland===

''Description: Roland was a great Frankish knight, one of Charlemagne’s 12 peers, who was slain in a Saracen ambush in the Pyrenees, at the Battle of Roncesvals in 778. He slew hundreds of Saracen enemies with his magic sword, Durendal, before succumbing to his wounds. Wayland Smith, with Verditius serving as his apprentice, forged this sword. Charlemagne took Durendal after''
''the battle, but the blade was later stolen by Verditius’ fi lius Roscius and taken to Verdi. By studying the sword repeatedly, Roscius and his fi lii became famous makers of magical swords. Each blade is engraved with a miniature “R,” which initially stood for “Roscius” but is now taken to mean “Roland” in memory of the original owner. Swords made by this confraternity spread widely in the ninth and tenth centuries, but were more restricted after the Tribunal rulings of 1061.''
''Production: The Confraternity of Roland makes swords, as well as other handheld weapons of war. All of the members have the Craft Ability Blacksmith, with specializations in sword crafting. They produce swords of quality attuned to harming humans (see Items of Quality, below), as well as a range of other enchanted blades. These swords are discretely sold to Christian knights, often crusaders.''
''Initiation Mystery: Confraternity members have developed an Ordeal to impart the Minor Hermetic Virtue Minor Magical Focus (Swords).''
''Mystery Path: Initiates learn the Outer Mystery, then Minor Magical Focus (Swords), Reforging, Items of Quality, Verditius Elder Runes, and Item Attunement.''

===Initiation of Minor Magical Focus (Swords)===

''Ease Factor: 15 Script Bonus: +12 Script Details: The Initiate must steal Durendal from the confraternity member who currently has it, secretly penetrating his studio in the dead of the night and making off with the sword (+3). The confraternity member expects the sword to be stolen, and keeps it under minimal safeguards. The Initiate must then enter an Infernal regio and recite the Christian Creed one hundred times without failing, despite whatever distractions the Enemy may provide (+3). Afterward, he must engage in a bout of mortal combat while bearing the sword, although he does not have to fi ght alone, and slay an enemy in the fi eld (+3). He and the Mystagogue then travel to site of the Battle of Roncesvals and, on the anniversary of Roland’s death, the Initiate enters a catatonic state during which his soul is in peril from the devils he has offended (+3). He then keeps Durendal in his studio, waiting for the next Initiate to steal it from him.''

===The Confraternity of Balento===

''Many magi of House Verditius accept Christianity, but not all do. Balento was a ninth century magus who was convinced he was a direct descendent of the god Vulcan. He focused his energies on learning the magic of fi re, and taught his apprentices the destructive art of the burning fl ame. During the Schism War, this confraternity produced hordes of items that hurled fi re, particularly wands and staffs. Once the war ceased, so did demand for these fi ery weapons, and the confraternity membership diminished to its current small size. Confraternity mem''

[|
''bers spend as much time casting fi re spells — they call it “fi eld research” — as they do in the laboratory crafting items.''

|]
''Production: The members of the Confraternity of Balento are wood carvers who imbue their devices with potent fi re spells. Each member has the Craft Ability Woodcarver. Their fi nished devices are sold throughout the Order, especially to magi of House Flambeau, who have a natural fondness for such things. This confraternity has few mundane agents acting as sellers, since the majority of their devices go to other Hermetic magi.''

[|
''Initiation Mystery: Undergoing the Ordeal to enter this confraternity imparts the Minor Hermetic Virtue Affi nity with Ignem to the Initiate, who also incurs the Minor Hermetic Flaw Defi cient Form Aquam.''
''Mystery Path: Confraternity brothers learn the Outer Mystery, followed by Affi nity with Ignem, Enchanted Casting Tools, Verditius Elder Runes, and Bind Magical Creatures.''

===Initiation of Bind Magical Creature===


|]
''Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +15 Script Details: The Initiate must travel to the Tiber River, in the city of Rome, and on the festival of Vulcanalia (23 August), sacrifi ce ten fi sh on a fi re that he has constructed to fl oat on the river (+3). He must have personally retrieved fi ve of the fi sh from a Magic aura and the other fi ve from a Faerie aura (two Quests for +6). Following the offering of fi sh, the Initiate sacrifi ces her talisman and a pint of her own blood to the fi re (+6). During the ceremony, the Initiate drinks a mixture of arsenic and wine while the Mystagogue recites the ancient prayers to Vulcan.''

[|

===The Confraternity of Irene the Younger===


|]
''Description: Irene was a Byzantium princess before becoming a maga of House Verditius. She retained her love of religious icons throughout her apprenticeship and after, becoming one of the most famous inventors of magical paintings''
''and fi gurines. These items’ powers subtly affect both the viewer and the room that contains the device.''
''Production: Confraternity members concentrate on the Arts of Imaginem and Mentem, instilling paintings, carved statues, and mosaics with powers to beautify their surroundings and beguile their viewers. Every member has either the Craft Ability Sculptor or Painter, which determines the medium they use. Items are sold to Christian churches, princes, town magistrates, and other wealthy individuals.''
''Initiation Mystery: Confraternity members receive the Minor Hermetic Virtue Puissant Imaginem or Puissant Mentem. The Ordeal also gives the Initiate the Minor Hermetic Flaw Slow Caster, as the Initiate’s spell casting starts to mimic longer time it takes to paint or sculpt.''
''Mystery Path: Following the Outer Mystery, members are Initiated into Puissant Imaginem or Mentem, Verditius Elder Runes, and Automata.''

===Initiation of Puissant Imaginem Or Mentem===

''Ease Factor: 15 Script Bonus: +9 Script Details: Sculptors must acquire a piece of basalt from a fresh eruption and cool the stone with holy water. Painters must prepare pigments from soil found only in the peaks of the Carpathian mountains, and then prepare brushes with the tail feathers of a dove and canvas made from the belly of a newborn calf (+3). The Initiate must travel to a desert island off the coast of Tunisia, to a hidden cave that is fi lled with intoxicating fumes rising from the bowels of the earth (+3). Enshrouded in inky darkness, he must craft a portrait of his patron saint in his chosen medium, without the aid of light, beginning on the night of the new moon. The Mystagogue recites the Psalms during the Initiation. The Initiate must emerge with a fl awless piece by the next full moon. If the Initiation is successful, the Initiate gains the Minor Virtue Puissant Imaginem or Mentem (player’s choice) and the Minor Flaw Slow Caster (+3). If not, the piece turns to dust and the Initiate must try again later.''

[|

===The Confraternity of Himinis the Mad===


|]
''Himinis, dubbed “the Mad,” was an 11th century magus who produced and sold many magical devices, enhancing his avaricious nature and making him one of the most greedy Verditius magi to have ever lived. He became paranoid that other magi were trying to steal his items, so he started creating trick devices, items that discharged dangerous spells at the wielder when triggered. Not satisfi ed with this chicanery, Himinis invented a Mystery that allowed him to instill powerful curses into his items. His apprentice continued this tradition, and the resulting confraternity still exists.''
''Production: This confraternity is less attached to a specifi c craft than other confraternities. Members make standard magic items, each continuing in a craft that he possessed before apprenticeship or learned from his parens. This confraternity has no specifi c Craft Ability associated with it.''
''Initiation Mystery: Himinis developed an Ordeal to teach his Initiates the Minor Hermetic Virtue Minor Magical Focus (Wooden Wands). They incur the unfortunate Minor Personality Flaw Envious.''
''Mystery Path: Initiates learn the Outer Mystery, followed by Minor Magical Focus (Wooden Wands), Verditius Elder Runes, Item Attunement, and Bind Curse.''

===Initiation of Bind Curse===

''Ease Factor: 21 Script Bonus: +13 Script Details: The Initiate must remove the left hand from a corpse of thief. This must be done under a full moon and the Initiate must perform this task alone (+3). The corpse must not have had a proper Christian burial. Returning to his sanctum, the Initiate sends away his forge-companions and apprentice. The hand is placed in a jar full of vinegar and mixed herbs. As the hand soaks, the Initiate serves the Mystagogue, performing solitary tasks for him for a season (+1). On the fi fth full moon after acquiring the thief’s hand, the Initiate removes the pickled hand and dries it. On the seventh full moon, the Mystagogue visits''
''the Initiate. Together they burn the hand, and the Initiate inhales the fumes as the fi re consumes it. The Initiate gains the Major Inner Mystery Bind Curse as well as the Major Flaw Severe the Ties that Bind (+9).''

==House Verditius Inner Mysteries==

''There are four Minor and four Major Inner Mysteries of House Verditius. Following the description of each Inner Mystery is a sample Initiation Script. Other Initiations for each Inner Mystery exist, and you are encouraged to develop other Scripts that suit the particular fl avor of your saga. Since Verditius magi can learn these Mysteries in any order, the sample Scripts use standard Initiation Target Levels. Bear in mind that these Target Levels may be lower if the Initiate''
''has undergone a previous Initiation that included an Ordeal.''

==Enchant Casting Tools (Minor House Mystery)==

''Soon after Fenistour invented casting tools, allowing Verditius magi to cast formulaic spells, her fi lii sought to develop a method of enchanting them, hoping to further compensate their brethren for their clumsiness at spell casting. Achieving their goal in the ninth century, Verditius magi began sharing these secrets, developing Scripts for their fellows to more easily become Initiated into this Mystery. This is particularly useful for those adventurous Verditius magi who like casting spells outside of their laboratories. This is a very common Inner House Mystery among Verditius magi in the 13th century.''
''The magus may enchant his casting tools to mirror certain effects of mastered spells, as well as allowing casting bonuses when he uses them. This is a laboratory''
''process, requiring a season spent working in a Hermetic laboratory. Each casting tool can only be enchanted once, even if it has more than one property, and the magus must be able to fi nish the enchantment in a single season as if he were creating a lesser enchanted device. Enchanted casting tools cannot be instilled with other magical powers, and cannot be used as a base for a lesser or greater enchanted item.''
''To enchant a casting tool, compare the magus’s Technique and Form Lab Total to the level of the spell that the casting tool is associated with. Since the magus is carving minor Verditius runes into his casting tool, you may add his Philosophiae score to the Lab Total. If the magus has a Craft Ability that could include making the tools, you may also add his Craft score. Because enchanted casting tools become permanent arcane connections to the magus, add his Hubris Personality score to the Lab Total. The magus also receives a bonus for knowing the spell in the fi rst place, adding the magnitude of the spell to the Lab Total,''

[|
''much like the bonus received from knowing a similar spell (ArM5, page 101). The level for the effect is equal to the level of the spell plus the adjustment for any additional powers the magus includes, and the magus’s Lab Total must be at least twice the effect level, so that he can perform the enchantment in one season.''

|]

===Enchant Casting Tools Lab Total:===


[|

===Technique + Form + Intelligence +===


===Magic Theory + Aura Modiﬁ Er + Philosophiae + Hubris + Magnitude of===


===Known Spell + Craft (If Applicable)===

''The base effect level of the casting tool equals the level of the spell it is used for. The effect level increases based upon the additional effects the magus wishes to enchant it with. There is no limit to the number of effects he can add, as long as his Lab Total plus bonuses is double the fi nal effect level.''

===Increase Casting Tool Effect===

''+2 Fast Casting (as a mastered spell).''

|]
''+2 Multiple Casting (as a mastered spell). This allows one additional spell, additional spells may be added for a +2 effect level increase each.''
''+2 Quiet Casting (as a mastered spell). This can be taken twice to cast the spell silently.''
''+ x Increase spell casting roll by x.''
''+10 Summon casting tool. The casting tool appears in the magus’s hand no matter where he stores it, although this is usually in his sanctum.''
''+10 Dismiss casting tool. The casting tool disappears from the magus’s person, traveling to a place chosen at the time of enchantment. An Arcane Connection to this place must be bound into the item, and so is usually the magus’s sanctum.''
''Enchanting casting tools requires vis. The magus must spend one pawn of Techniqueor Form-specifi c vis per 10 levels of the fi nal effect level total, rounded up.''

===Initiation of Enchant Casting Tools===

''Ease Factor: 15 (Minor Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +9 Script Details: The Mystagogue spends a season with the Initiate, creating casting tools one after another (+3). The Initiate must know the exact time and date that she was Initiated into the House’s Outer Mystery. On an anniversary of that date, she ritualistically buries all her casting tools in a Magic regio (+3). If the Initiation is successful, the Initiate learns the Inner House Minor Mystery Enchant Casting Tools. The buried casting tools are destroyed and the Initiate receives the Minor Flaw Limited Magic Resistance to Vim (Ordeal +3).''

==Items of Quality (Minor House Mystery)==


[|
''Many of the magic items fi rst created by House Verditius to sell to mundanes were not enchanted devices, but were''

|]
''rather items and tools whose inherent magical properties had been drawn to their surface through sympathetic magic and the inscription of runes. Certainly true enchanted devices were crafted and sold, but the majority of the items were these lesser items, tools, and artifacts of particular trades that helped mundanes in their day-to-day activities. Verditius magi still make these items and sell them, through their agents, to the population at large. Spring covenants also fi nd them extremely helpful during their fl edgling years.''
''Items of quality are easy to make, and any Verditius maga who knows this Mystery may successfully create one in a single season. First, select a tool or item that would be appropriately used by a professional in his trade. This does not have to be a craft trade, since everybody uses various tools and items to effectively perform activates in their daily life. A knight uses a sword, a king uses a scepter, a courtier uses refi ned clothing, an exchequer uses an abacus, a carver uses a knife, and a tavern keeper uses a broom. The item must have a Shape and Material bonus, as listed on ArM5 page 110, and in other books. If the item has more than one magical bonus, the magus must select only one for the enchantment. An item of quality may only have one latent magical property brought to its surface.''
''Once the magus has selected both the item and the magical bonus he wishes to retrieve from its essential nature, he spends a season in his lab and empowers the item with Verditius runes, spending a single pawn of Vim vis in the process. He succeeds regardless of what his Lab Total might be. Once fi nished, the empowered item of quality provides a bonus to the user’s roll when it is used in an appropriate manner. This bonus is equal to the bonus derived from the Shape and Material Bonuses chart, and may be added to any simple or stress die roll in which that power would be useful. However, this bonus is limited by the magus’s Philosophiae score at the time of creation, as this score measures his understanding of Verditius runes.''
''For example, swords are common items of quality, empowered with the magical ability of “+4 harm human and''

[|

==Enchanting Casting Tools Example==

''Hephaestion, a Verditius magus fi ve years out of apprenticeship, wishes to enchant his casing tool for the spell The Crystal Dart. His Muto Terram Lab Total is quite high, 49, which includes his Philosophiae, Hubris, applicable Craft Ability, and the bonus for knowing the spell. The enchanted casting tools’ base level of effect is 10, the level of the spell. Hephaestion enhances his casting tool with the Fast Casting effect, three Multiple Castings, and a +6 spellcasting bonus. The total effect level of the enchanted casting tool is 24. Hephaestion spends 3 pawns of Terram vis and completes the enchantment in a season.''
''animal bodies.” When used in combat, this +4 bonus would be added to the combatant’s Attack roll, over and above any situational or other Ability bonuses that he may receive.''

|]
''Although produced through a magical procedure, items of quality are not magical devices per se. Weapons of quality are not resisted by Magic Resistance, and items of quality are not picked up by simple attempts to detect magic. Appropriate Intellego Vim spells do, however, indicate that an item has been magically aligned. Regardless of the bonus these items provide, they have a Lab Total of 10 if investigated. The House nevertheless views them as magical items and regulates their sale to mundanes.''

[|

===Initiation of Items of Quality===

''Ease Factor: 15 (Minor Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +9 Script Details: The Initiate spends a season enchanting a magic item, as well as making a mundane item similar in appearance. As the season nears its end, she journeys to a Forge of Hephaestus (+3). She and the Mystagogue sacrifi ce both items on the forge (+3). The Initiate gains the Minor Ordeal Flaw Increased Hubris (+3).''

|]

==Reforging Enchanted Items (Minor House Mystery)==

''Either through mishap or malice, magic devices break. Verditius developed a method of repairing broken magic items while studying with Wayland Smith. Since his demise, the House has contributed to this practice, developing a Mystery that allows the repairing of magic devices, as well as the re-crafting of unbroken devices to enhance their magical potential. By using these techniques, Verditius magi can also deconstruct someone else’s magical device into reusable pawns of vis. The Inner Mystery Reforging Enchanted Items allows the magus to repair and smelt magic items, as well as reforge them.''
''The basic practice of reforging compares the magus’s Creo or Rego Vim Lab Total + a stress die to the level of effect of an item’s instilled power. Items with multiple powers must be reforged one power at a time, by comparing his Lab Total to each individual power, from weakest to strongest. If his adjusted Lab Total is higher than the level of effect, he succeeds. If it is lower, he fails. If he botches, he gains Warping Points, with other possible consequences depending upon his specifi c reforging attempt. Reforging, repairing, and smelting enchanted items always takes at least one season of time.''

===Reforging: Creo Or Rego Vim Lab Total + Stress Die Vs. Level of Effect of a===


===Power of an Enchanted Device===

''Reforging, like investigating a magic item, is one of the rare instances when a die roll is added to a seasonal event. This is due to the complexities of the reforging process and the capricious nature of magic.''

===Repairing Enchanted Items===

''Magi Initiated into this Mystery can repair broken enchanted items, reuniting the magical energy that exists in the broken pieces to re-craft the device. It is immaterial how the item was broken, and as long as the magus has all the pieces, he may put it back together. The item itself actually helps him, as the magic within seeks to reunite into a whole. There is a difference between a broken item and an item whose magic has been drained by expanding any charges it might have had. The latter item is not broken, merely spent, and cannot be repaired.''
''The magus must work in a Hermetic laboratory to repair the item. It helps to have some knowledge of the particular Craft Ability that was initially used to manufacture the item, but this is not a requirement. He fi rst physically repairs the item. You make a Dexterity + Craft stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If the item is of superior quality, your storyguide may increase the Ease Factor, but for most magical devices this is a relatively easy operation. If the item was made by''
''another Verditius maga, the Ease Factor is increased by the creator’s Philosophiae score at the time of the item’s creation.''
''Once physically repaired, the magus investigates the item before reuniting its magic. By using Creo magic, he rebinds the power back into its original enchantment. This begins much like investigating a magical device (ArM5, page 100). You make an Intellego Vim Lab Total + a stress die roll against the level of the weakest enchantment contained in the device. Many requests to Verditius magi to repair broken enchanted items come from other Hermetic magi, and since most Hermetic magi have some understanding of the enchantments in question, information they can provide often assists Verditius magi in their investigations. If a Verditius magus is accurately told the properties of an item, you may add +20 to your investigation rolls. But the offered information is not always accurate. If he is told disinformation about a device, your roll is compromised by a penalty of –5 to –20, depending on how untruthful that information is. Your storyguide is the fi nal arbitrator of the exact penalty, basing her decision on how different the information is from the truth. If the magus is repairing a device he originally made or has a Lab Text for, he may skip the investigation stage. If the magus fails to successfully investigate a property, you may not make a repair roll. If you botch, the magus receives a number of Warping Points equal to the magnitude of the property he was investigating.''
''After the magus successfully understands a magical power of the device, you roll a stress die and add it to his Creo Vim Lab Total. If the total is higher than the level of effect of the power, the item is repaired and once again functions normally. If it is lower, he fails. If you botch, he receives a number of Warping Points equal to the magnitude of the power he was attempting to repair.''
''For items with multiple powers, the magus must understand one power and repair it before moving on to the next. The series of activities is to investigate then repair, investigate then repair. This can all be done in one season, as long as the magus is successful at each stage of the operation. The magus may continue''

[|
''in the following season if failure interrupts him and he wishes to do so. It is possible, therefore, to have a device with only some of its properties functioning.''

===Reforging Enchanted Devices===


|]
''By using the same principle techniques involved in repairing magical devices, those who have been Initiated into this Mystery can also re-craft an unbroken magical device, returning it to the workbench and compressing the magic in the item to make room for more enchantments. Verditius is said to have used this ability to great effect when making his magical rings, continually reforging them and then adding additional magical powers. Reforging enchanted devices allows a magus to surpass the limitations imposed on an item by its physical form. Most economically minded Verditius magi fi ll a magical device with enchantments, using all the available room a device may have based on the Material and Size table (ArM5, page 97). Reforging allows them to increase this limit. A magus may reforge a fi nished lesser or greater enchanted device that he originally crafted, an attuned item, or''
''a greater enchanted device that he has prepared for enchantment but has not had any powers yet instilled. He may also reforge others’ devices, provided he has a Lab Text for the item.''
''To reforge a fi nished device, compare the magus’s Rego Vim Lab Total + a stress die to the level of the weakest power of the device. If the total equals or exceeds the level of the weakest power, the magus may continue, and you successively make new rolls against any more powerful enchantments that the device may contain. If you successfully roll higher than the levels of all the device’s powers, the magus has compressed the magic of the device within itself. The reforged item can hold a number of pawns of additional vis equal to his score in Philosophiae at the time of the reforging. New powers may be instilled in the device in subsequent laboratory seasons. If the reforged device is a lesser enchanted item, any new enchantments must be completed in one season. If the magus fails, he has only recreated the item as it was. If you fail your roll by more than ten, the magus has fl awed the item during reforging, and the item loses its most powerful enchantment. If you botch, the magus destroys the item and receive a number of Warping Points equal to its total magnitude of spell effects.''
''Successful reforging requires pawns of Vim vis equal to the magus’s Philosophiae score. The fi nal instilled levels of effect of each of the reforged device’s powers are increased by fi ve times his Philosophiae score, so future reforgings are more diffi cult. There is no limit to the number of times a fi nished device can be reforged, but only the most powerful magi are typically able to reforge a device a third and fourth time.''
''A magus may also reforge a device before any powers are instilled within it. Since lesser enchanted items must be completed within one season, he may only do this to magic items that require a season spent opening them up to enchantment: his talisman, attuned items, or greater enchanted devices. After a device has been opened for enchantment, the magus returns to the lab during a subsequent season, dismantling and recreating the magic in the item and covering it with Verditius runes. Compare the magus’s Rego Vim Lab''
''Total + a stress die to fi ve times the number of pawns of vis necessary to open the item. If it is equal or higher, you may add the magus’s Philosophiae score to the total pawns of vis the item can eventually hold. If you fail your roll by more than ten, you must subtract your magus’s Philosophiae score from the number of pawns of vis the item can hold. Botching destroys the item and infl icts Warping Points.''
''If the magus succeeds in reforging an item that is only opened for enchantment, he can then instill powers as normal. Reforging does not alter this process. Items without instilled powers can only be reforged once, but can be later reforged after having powers instilled in them. Items that have been reforged, either before or after powers have been instilled, have each of their power’s effect levels increased by fi ve times the magus’s Philosophiae score for future reforgings.''

===Smelting Enchanted Devices===

''The third way this Inner Mystery may be used is to deconstruct or “smelt down” an enchanted device, using the method of reforging to extract vis from an item. This is a particularly insidious use of this Mystery, allowing Verditius magi — and only Verditius magi — to extract usable pawns of vis from Hermetically constructed magical items. Smelting an item takes a season.''
''To deconstruct an item a magus must fi rst thoroughly investigate it, using the Intellego Vim Lab Total + stress die process described above. Total all the instilled levels of effect of the device to determine the level needed. If successfully investigated, compare the magus’s Rego Vim Lab Total + a stress die to the total instilled levels of effect. If it is equal or higher, the item loses all its powers and the magus extracts the number of Form-specifi c pawns of vis used to instill those powers. The magus is limited in the number of pawns he receives, however, either by his Magic Theory times two or, if he knows the Inner Mystery Verditius Elder Runes, by his Magic Theory times Philosophiae. Excess pawns are lost. If you fail the roll, the item loses the power and the vis evaporates away. If you botch,''

[|

==Reforging Example==

''Maga Mari Amwithig of Semita Errabunda has asked Hephaestion to reforge her lesser enchanted item, Wand of Bestial Agony (ArM5, page 100). Hephaestion agrees, charging her eight pawns of vis plus the four required for the operation. Hephaestion’s Rego Vim Lab Total is 20, which is also the fi nal level of effect of the wand. He adds a stress die to his Lab Total (rolling a three) and reforges the wand in a season. The wand now holds four more pawns of vis and can be enchanted again as a lesser enchanted item. If Hephaestion wishes to reforge the wand again, its adjusted fi nal level of effect is 40 for its original power (base 20 + [5 x Hephaestion’s Philosophiae score of 4]). Twenty is also added to any additional powers Mari later instills in the wand for future reforgings.''
''the item loses its powers and the magus gains 1 Warping Point per magnitude of the combined total of the instilled levels of effect.''
''Smelting is not 100% effi cient. One pawn in ten is always lost, evaporating away during the smelting process. At least one pawn of vis is lost, regardless of the total number of pawns that could be drawn from the item. Only talismans, attuned items, and lesser and greater enchanted items may be smelted down.''

|]

===Initiation of Reforging Enchanted Items===


[|
''Ease Factor: 15 (Minor Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +7 Script Details: The Initiate must make an item, usually something that he knows how to make with his Craft Ability. He must make as many of these as he can in the season, each as nearly identical to the others as the craft allows (+1). The Mystagogue sacrifi ces a season of her time assisting the Initiate (+3). As the season ends, the Initiate displays the items to the Mystagogue, who ritually burns them in a fi re made of sulfur, cedar wood, and fi sh oil. Due to the repetitive process of the Initiation, the Initiate gains the Minor Flaw Averse to Risk (+3 Minor Ordeal).''

|]

==Verditius Elder Runes (Minor House Mystery)==

''The rune magic that Wayland Smith taught Verditius was descended in part from the “elder runes” of the early Germanic people, which were called the futhark in the Scandinavian tongue. Many of their ideas of magic were very alien to the Mediterranean-born magus, as they were concerned more with Norse symbolism than practical use. As he learned each rune, he translated its mystical associations into terms more applicable to his magical craft, linking each rune to a particular tree. These unique runes were later modifi ed and developed further by Verditius and his fi lius Milo, resulting in “Verditius runes,” the symbols that all magi of the House use to shape their created devices. The elder runes from''
''which they were derived are more potent, however, and while they do not allow the fl exibility of Verditius runes, they enable the enchanter to use his Arts in a much more powerful manner.''
''Each elder rune is linked to a specifi c Hermetic Art, and magi Initiated into this Inner Mystery can use these runes when creating a magic item, inscribing the runes onto the item during the creation stage. The power contained in each rune makes the item more malleable to magical manipulations, allowing it to accept more magical power than it normally could. This effectively allows the magus to double his Art score for the purposes of enchanting the item.''
''The magus may inscribe an enchanted device with up to two runes, one representing the Technique used in the enchantment and the other representing the Form. He inscribes the elder runes during the season that he opens the item for enchantment, meaning that only greater enchanted items, attuned items, and talismans can be inscribed with elder runes. Each rune adds fi ve to the fi nal''
''level of effect of the power being instilled in the device, making it slightly more diffi cult to enchant the item. However, each inscribed rune allows the magus to double the Art that the rune represents, exactly like a magical focus. Theoretically, doubling his Art score compensates for the slightly harder fi nal effect level of the item. If it does not (and it may not), he should wait to use the elder runes until his understanding of the Arts involved grows.''
''If the magus already has a Major or Minor Focus applicable to the enchantment, he may add his score in the lowest Art to the total again. If this is the same Art as that associated with the elder rune, he effectively triples his score in that Art.''
''Elder runes can be inscribed on devices that have multiple invested effects. When instilled, each effect has its fi nal spell level raised by fi ve or ten depending on how many runes have been inscribed on the item. If an additional instilled effect falls under one of the Techniques or Forms governed by an inscribed rune, the magus may double that Art score as''

[|

===Rune Meaning Tree Art===

''B “Health” Birch Creo''
''I “Sight” Yew Intellego''
''K “Pain” Pine Perdo''
''i “Ice” Alder Rego''
''F “Cattle” Elder Animal''
''L “Water” Willow Aquam''
''H “Hail” Ash Auram''
''M “Man” Holly Corpus''
''J “Harvest” Apple Herbam''
''S “Sun” Juniper Ignem''
''t “Loyalty” Oak Mentem''
''W “Ogre” Hawthorn Vim''

==Verditius Elder Runes==

''mentioned before. If the instilled effect does not fall under the Art represented by the rune, the fi nal level of the effect is still increased, but the magus does not get to double either the Technique or the Form.''
''Each elder rune is also sympathetically linked to a type of tree. If the magus inscribes a rune on a device made from the corresponding tree — probably a staff, wand, or other wooden item — he receives a +2 bonus to his Lab Total for enchanting it. This is in addition to any Shape and Material bonuses the item’s form may provide.''

|]
''It costs a pawn of Art-specifi c vis to inscribe each elder rune. This is in addition to the fi nal cost of an instilled power, which has its fi nal level of effect increased by the inscription of the rune. Vis used to inscribe elder runes counts toward the maximum amount an item may hold.''

[|
''There are 24 elder runes, only half of which have been adapted to the''

|]
''Hermetic Arts. Attaching meaning to the remaining three Arts would be a Minor Breakthrough for each rune, and a small number of Verditius magi are working on just such a breakthrough. (See Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26, for details on the research necessary to make such a discovery).''
''Any Verditius magus can recognize elder runes, allowing him to easily distinguish between them and regular Verditius runes. A successful Intelligence + Verditius Cult Lore + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 9 allows him to identify the rune and its corresponding Art.''
''A second application of this Inner Mystery allows the magus to use his increased understanding of runes in combination with his understanding of Hermetic magic. This allows him to use more vis during his laboratory season when enchanting a device. When creating enchanted items, the limit to the amount''
''of vis he may use in a single season becomes his Magic Theory score times his Philosophiae score.''

===Initiation of Verditius Elder Runes===

''Ease Factor: 15 (Minor Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +9 Script Details: The Initiate and Mystagogue must travel to Durenmar in the Black Forest, typically sacrifi cing a season for the journey (+3). On the shortest day of the year (the winter solstice), the Initiate must sacrifi ce a greater enchanted item, burning it in the forge created by Verditius (+6). As the Mystagogue recites Germanic poems about the old gods, the Initiate eats the fl esh of a crow roasted over the burning item. As the sun rises, knowledge that allows him to harness the power of the Verditius Elder Runes enters the Initiate’s head.''

[|

==Automata (Major House Mystery)==


|]
''For three centuries, the making of automata — mechanized beasts, birds, women, and men, creations designed for emperors and Caesars — was regarded as the greatest Mystery of the House. This changed in the 12th century, when Icilius the Traitor began teaching magi of other Houses how to make automata. Anyone prosperous enough to pay for an automaton could own one. By the 13th century, several powerful nobles and affl uent clergymen have automata. Although still prized, the reputation of those building these devices has diminished.''
''Knowing this Mystery grants the Major Hermetic Virtue Craft Automata, an Ability with an initial score of 1. Verditius magi learn this through Initiation and Ordeal, but other Hermetic magi can learn this as a Supernatural Ability. Because this Mystery was developed with Hermetic magi in mind, magi wishing to learn it do not have to subtract the total of their Arts scores from the source’s Study Total (ArM5, page 166), although they do have to subtract the total of any other Supernatural Virtues they may have. In theory, Verditius magi could also learn''

[|
''Ten years out of apprenticeship, Hephaestion is commissioned to make a metal wand that casts The Earth Split Asunder. Hephaestion decides to make this wand a greater enchanted item. To hurry the process, he decides to inscribe the device with the “Ice” rune, which will double his Rego score. The wand will also maintain the concentration for the wielder, so the fi nal level of effect is 40: 30 for the spell + 5 for the elder rune + 5 for maintaining concentration.''
''Hephaestion’s regular Rego Terram Lab Total is 8 (Rego) + 19 (Terram including Puissant Art bonus) + 3 (Intelligence) + 6 (Magic Theory specialized in Terram) + 3 (Magic Aura), for a total of 39. The iron wand is a small base metal object and can hold ten pawns of vis. During the season spent opening the wand for enchantment, Hephaestion can deduct his Craft Ability Metalsmith from the necessary cost by inscribing the wand with Verditius runes (ArM5, page 93). His Craft Metalsmith score is 5 + 2 from Puissant Ability, specialized in iron. It only costs Hephaestion two pawns of Terram vis to open the wand for enchantment.''
''Hephaestion begins to enchant the device the following season. His Lab Total is increased by Verditius runes, his Craft: Metalsmith score, and the benefi t from using the elder rune. His revised Lab Total is 16 (8 Rego times 2 for the elder rune) + 19 (Terram including Puissant Art bonus) + 3 (Intelligence) + 6 (Magic Theory 5 specialized in Terram) + 3 (Magic aura) + 5 (+4 shape and material bonus “control things at a distance” + 4 Philosophiae score, limited by Magic Theory 5) + 8 (Craft Metalsmith 5 + specialization in iron + 2 from Puissant Ability), for a total of 60. In the fi rst season of the actual enchanting process, Hephaestion accumulates 20 points towards the item’s completion (Lab Total 60 minus the fi nal level of effect 40). He fi nishes it in the second season. The wand requires seven pawns of Terram vis, six for the fi nal level of effect of the power and one for inscribing the “Ice” rune. Hephaestion charges his client 18 pawns of vis for his services, double the amount required for opening the item and enchanting it, plus the nine pawns that were necessary for the enchantment, for a grand total of 27 pawns.''

==Elder Runes Example==

''it this way, but the memory of Icilius’s treachery is still fresh, and any magus who does so can expect to be shunned by his House, if not formally cast out.''

|]
''Automata are constructed facsimiles made from a base material, usually wood, stone, or metal, resembling beasts or humans and consisting of miniature gears, rope and pulley apparatuses, articulated joints, interior arrangements of strings, and carefully aligned weights and counterbalances. From a distance, they may appear real, but closer inspection reveals their manufactured nature. Imbued with magic, they normally perform tasks suitable for a servant or slave, but some can perform tasks that are more complicated and follow intricate orders. They do not have original thoughts, however, and even the most cleverly constructed automaton can only follow its master’s orders.''

[|
''There are three stages to constructing an automaton: creating the fi gure, preparing it for enchantment, and instilling spell-like enchantments into it. This process is fi guratively called creating the body, spirit, and mind of the automaton.''

===Creating an Automaton===


|]
''The magus must fi rst decide what form and material he wants his automata to have. The size of the automaton and its material are important. Choose a facsimile of a species, including man, and determine its Size, consulting either the Size Example Table Size (ArM5, page 192) or the Mundane Beasts section of the Bjornaer chapter. Next, choose a material using the Material and Size Table (ArM5, page 97) to determine the automaton’s base points calculation. Automata are magic creations and thus have Magic Might. These numbers determine the thing’s Magic Might score, a vital calculation that is used throughout the automaton creation process.''

===Automaton’s Magic Might: 10 + Size===


===+ Material Base Points===


[|
''Magic Might determines the Ease Factor needed to construct an automaton and the limit on pawns of vis that may be used to instilled spell-like effects in''

|]
''it. Since this is a magical creation, Magic Might is also the automaton’s Magic Resistance.''
''Having determined the form and material of the construction, the magus spends a season making it. Besides time, this costs money. Use the standard conversion you have set for the price of a pawn of vis in your saga, and multiply this base price by the automaton’s Magic Might. Depending on your saga, your troupe might have to modify this cost, bearing in mind that this is an expensive project. You then make an Intelligence + Craft Automata + a stress die roll against an Ease Factor of the automaton’s Magic Might score. If you succeed, the magus has constructed his automaton. If you fail, he has not, but he may immediately try again in the next season and you gain a +1 bonus to your roll for each season he has failed. Each attempt after failing costs him the same number of Mythic Pounds as a pawn of vis costs. If you botch, the automaton is ruined and the magus must start over from scratch.''
''Verditius magi can inscribe lesser Verditius runes on the automata and add their Philosophiae score to this roll.''

===Construct Automaton: Intelligence===


===+ Craft Automata + Stress Die Vs.===


===Automaton’s Magic Might===


===Preparing an Automaton for Enchantment===

''After constructing the automaton, the magus must prepare it for enchantment. This takes a number of pawns of Vim vis equal to the automaton’s Magic Might score. The magus must do this in a single season. He cannot fail at this part of the process, although the limit of vis that he can use in a season might not be high enough to accommodate the amount he must use. If this is the case, preparing the automaton for enchantment can wait until he can use the required amount of vis. The constructed automaton sits idle in his laboratory.''
''The nature of this Mystery is unique and many not be coupled with other Major Inner Mysteries of the House. Automata are greater enchanted items.''
''They may not be a magus’s talisman. Verditius magi may use personal benefi ts derived from the Minor Inner Mysteries, especially Mysteries that allow them to use more vis in a single season.''
''This stage of construction is referred to as crafting the automaton’s spirit. This is merely artifi cer’s jargon and a use of colorful language, as no spirit is actually bound to the thing.''

===Enchanting an Automaton===

''Prepared and constructed, the magus then instills spell-like effects in his automaton. Since the automaton is a greater enchanted item, he may spend several seasons instilling these powers. Like regular enchantments, each power mimics a Hermetic spell, requires Art-specifi c vis, and is completed based on the magus’s Lab Total. Verditius magi can add their Hubris score to their Lab Totals. Each power costs a number of pawns of vis to instill, and the maximum number of pawns an automaton can hold equals its Magic Might score.''

[|
''This is a fi xed limit, unchangeable through reforging or other Verditius techniques. Each power instilled requires one pawn of vis for every ten levels of the power’s fi nal effect, rounded up.''

|]
''The Range for these powers is always Personal, and the Target is Part, since the magus is enchanting only one of the many parts that comprise the complicated automaton. Since automata do not have intelligence, he cannot instill powers that the thing can then cast on others. The Duration for each power is important, and most powers have Duration Sun or Moon. Lacking intelligence, automata cannot maintain concentration, so, unlike other magic devices, the magus may not instill Concentration Duration effects. The frequency of the powers is important, since it signifi es the number of times a day the automaton can perform the power. Finally, each power needs a trigger, usually a spoken command word phrased as an order, but linked triggers can be instilled. A specialized effect developed for automata is “Cease,” a command that stops the specifi c activity or power that an automaton is currently using. This effect adds +3 to the fi nal level of the effect. All of these modifi cations affect the fi nal effect level of the power instilled.''
''Besides spell-like effects, the magus can also instill powers that mimic Abilities, allowing an automaton to perform tasks for the entertainment of its audience. These Abilities are Craft or Profession Abilities, and while many are used for entertainment (dancer, juggler, musician), they can also copy useful labor skills (seamstress, blacksmith, scribe). The magus may instill Martial Abilities, including Brawl, but this can be dangerous due to the automaton’s lack of individual thought. The magus must have intimate knowledge of the Ability he is instilling, meaning that he must possess a score in that Ability. His score is the limit of the score he can instill in his creation.''
''Instilling Ability-like effects uses the magus’s Rego + Form Lab Total, with a Mentem requisite. The exact Form depends on the material of the construction. The base level of effect is 25 (move a material in a highly unnatural and specialized way 5, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 Mentem requisite). This gives the automata an''
''Ability score of 1. The magus may raise this Ability score by adding magnitudes to the base effect. Each additional magnitude increases an Ability by +1. The shape of the automaton must be adequate to the task; an automaton fi sh cannot dance, for example.''
''Automaton artifi cers have developed several common powers. Many of these powers use a Rego Herbam or Terram Lab Total, and several require a Mentem requisite if the automaton must somehow sense its environment.''
''Dutiful Movement: The automaton can walk and follow its creator around. Base effect 20.''
''Freedom of Movement: The automaton can walk towards areas pointed out to it. The magus must specifi cally select the destination while commanding the automata. Base effect 25, Mentem requisite.''
''Angelic Movement: The automaton can fl y, following the magus’s direction as he points his fi nger to where he wishes it to go. The automaton must have a form that would naturally allow fl ight. Base effect 40, Creo Auram Lab Total with a Rego requisite. Automata larger than Size 0 add +1 magnitude per additional Size.''
''Voice Like a Nightingale: The automaton can sing as pleasantly as a bird, chirping out bird songs through its mouth. Base effect 5, Creo Imaginem.''
''Voice Like a Bard: The automaton can masterfully sing a small repertoire of ballads selected during enchantment. Base effect 10, Creo Imaginem.''

[|
''Increased Characteristics: Every automaton has the physical Characteristics''

|]
''of an average member of the species it is a facsimile of (0 for humans). The magus may raise these, mirroring the effects of Creo Corpus and Mentem Magic. The required Form depends on the automaton’s base material. The base effect is 10 for a +1 Characteristic, with each additional magnitude adding +1 to the Characteristic.''
''Simulacra: The automaton appears real. It looks, smells, and sounds like a real thing rather than a facsimile. Base effect 15, Creo Imaginem. Raising the magnitude one level allows the magus to make the automaton look like a specifi c animal or person.''

===The Construction Combined===

''Once the magus has fi nished enchanting the automaton, he must unite all the magic into a cohesive unit. He casts the specially invented formulaic spell, Tie the Threads that Bind, onto the construction. This is a general level Rego Vim spell. This spell’s level must equal or exceed the fi nished construct’s Magic Might + 15.''

[|

===Tie the Threads That Bind===


|]
''ReVi Gen R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual This spell is uniquely used for the construction of automata. The base effect level of the spell level must equal or exceed the construct’s Magic Might to be successful, meaning the fi nal spell level must equal or exceed the automaton’s Magic Might + 15.''
''(Base Effect, +1 Touch, +2 Group)''

===Automata in Play===

''Once completed, the automaton functions like an unthinking NPC, performing commanded tasks and services. If it is ever required to make an Ability check, the storyguide rolls this as normal: Characteristic + Ability + a die roll against a determined Ease Factor. Because automata are constructed to perform regular, routine tasks, they always use a simple die and never a stress die. Great successes and horrible blunders fall outside an automaton’s capacities. Mental''

[|
''Characteristics are ignored for Abilities that require them, and the storyguide just rolls a die + the automaton’s Ability. Automata can only use Abilities that they have been designed for.''

|]
''Automata are complicated machines and require constant maintenance. At the end of every year, roll a stress die and compare it to the automaton’s Magic Might score. If it matches or exceeds the score, the automaton is fi ne. If it fails, some minor part of the automaton has broken. Lower the automata’s Magic Might score by 1 point. The automaton suffers a –1 penalty on all Ability rolls for every 2 points of lost Magic Might. If it botches, the automata breaks, losing 5 points of Magic Might for every actual botch rolled. Once the automata’s Magic Might score reaches 0, it is broken and no longer functions. It is a good idea to make this annual roll when other characters are making their Aging rolls.''
''Damaged automata can be repaired. A magus can make spot repairs on an automaton by rolling his Intelligence + Craft Automata score + a stress die against of Ease Factor of (6 + the magnitude of the automaton’s Magic Might score). If you succeed, the automaton’s Magic Might is increased 1 point back to its original score. If you fail, his attempt was unsuccessful. If you botch, the automata loses 1 point of Might per actual botch. Spot repairs take a number of days equal to the magnitude of the automaton’s original Magic Might, rounded up. The magus may also spend an entire season and repair all the damage to an automaton. Compare his Rego + appropriate Form with a Mentem requisite Lab Total to the automaton’s Magic Might + the number of instilled powers it has. His Lab Total must be higher than the automaton’s adjusted Magic Might for the repairs to be successful. A magus must repair an automaton before its Might reaches 0, at which point it is absolutely broken and useless.''

===Initiation of Automata===

''Ease Factor: 21 (Major Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''

[|
''Script Bonus: +13 Script Details: The Initiate must spend a season studying one of the ancient automata of Hephaestus, either''

|]
''in Verdi or another Verditius location that possesses one (+1). She must then travel to the lighthouse in Alexandria, Egypt, where she must steal a brand of fi re from the lighthouse’s source. The brand must remain lit while she journeys to the Mystagogue (+3). During the Initiation, she undergoes a Major Ordeal that imposes the Major Flaw Necessary Condition (must be near an open fl ame to work magic) (+9).''

==Bind Curse (Major House Mystery)==

''Developed by the infamous Verditius magus Himinis the Mad, this Mystery allows the magus to instill dire Curses into enchanted items. While these follow certain spell-like guidelines, they are not spells and can only be housed in created devices. They can be instilled in lesser enchanted items, but are more commonly used to safeguard greater enchanted items and attuned items, when they are instilled among other (non-Curse) effects in such devices. Because of the enormity of their arcane might, they cannot be instilled in charged items.''
''Curses affect the target by infl icting either a Minor or Major Flaw, which is called a Curse and is similar to a Minor or Major Malediction Flaw. Minor Curses last a number of seasons equal to the item’s creator’s Magic Theory score at the time of enchantment. Major Curses last a number of years equal to the creator’s Magic Theory score at the same time. The Parma Magica is helpful in protecting against the initial imposition of the curse, but if a magus’s Magic Resistance fails, he is doomed to its effects.''
''Curses are bound to items much as spell-like effects are instilled in them. Curses have a base effect plus modifi ers, much like regular enchanted items. Compare the magus’s Lab Total to the fi nal level of effect to determine whether he successfully binds the Curse to the item and how many seasons it takes. The basic enchantment effect level of a Minor Curse is level 25, and the basic enchantment effect level of a Major Curse is 50. The actual Technique and Form necessary''
''for binding the Curse depends on the type of Curse. Many are Rego, Muto, or Perdo Corpus effects, but you should use your common sense and the advice of your storyguide to ultimately decide the Arts, including requisites, each Curse requires.''
''Minor Curse base effect level: 25 Major Curse base effect level: 50 The basic Range and Target of a Curse are Touch and Individual. The basic Duration is Momentary, meaning the actual magic that infl icts the curse only lasts a second, even though the consequences last a number of seasons or years. This contradicts the regular rules for Rego and Muto magic, and is a result of the particular magic involved with this Inner Mystery. The Range and Target of the curse may be increased, and for some Curses must be. Himinis was able to adapt his Curses to act in various ways depending on the Range of the curse. If the Range is increased, it means the Curse affects someone other than the holder of the item fi rst, within the limits of the increased Range, before affecting the holder. Increasing the Target means that the Curse affects a greater number of people. These insidious alterations make Himinis’s Curses even more frightening.''
''Each Curse needs a triggering action to release its magical power. The base effect is a physical trigger: saying a magic word, waving the item, or any of the common physical triggers for regular magic devices. A more common trigger is a conditional trigger, which triggers the Curse after a specifi c magical event happens. For example, investigating the item with Intellego Vim magic could be a conditional trigger, as could triggering the Curse after another power of the device is used. Each conditional trigger adds +3 to the fi nal level of effect of the Curse. Creating a Curse that is triggered after a specifi c number of uses of another power adds +6 to the fi nal effect level.''
''Curses have a base Penetration of 0. Like other standard enchanted items, the enchanter may increase this.''
''Each Curse is a single instilled effect, and the limit of such effects is determined by the shape and material of the item, or the powers and known Mysteries of the Verditius magus. Instilling Curses requires''

[|
''vis, one pawn of Art-specifi c vis for every 10 levels of fi nal effect of the curse, rounded up.''

===Himinis’s Curses===


|]
''Himinis developed a defi nitive roster of Curses for his Inner Mystery. However, there is no complete list here. Detailing every Curse would limit the creativity of the troupe, and players and storyguides are encouraged to develop Curses similar to those listed here. However, if a storyguide decides that a specifi c Curse a player wishes to create is too mean, she can regretfully inform the player that, while the Curse is awe-inspiring, it is not one of Himinis’s Curses.''

[|
''Minor Curses should be annoying, infl icting slight penalties in play and interrupting a season of work once every two or three years. Major Curses should be dire, severely penalizing a character in play and interrupting seasons of work once or twice a year. These Curses are nothing to scoff at, and it is with good reason that Hermetic magi fear them.''

===Minor Curses===


|]
''Weakened Characteristic: The victim is instantly drained of his physical vitality. This curse lowers a target’s lowest physical Characteristic by one point, dropping a –2 Strength to –3, for example. (Perdo Corpus effect)''

[|
''Susceptibility to Magic: The victim losses whatever natural resistance she might have had against magic. She suffers a –3 to any roll used to resist a magic spell or supernatural effect. Many spells do not offer any chance of resisting them, but those that do affect the target more readily. Hermetic magi suffer a –3 to their total Magic Resistance and must roll an additional botch die when botching using Hermetic magic. (Rego Vim effect)''

|]
''Twisted Spine: The victim’s spine twists to a grotesque shape, bending him near double and prohibiting him from standing erect. The target suffers a –3 to any social roll he might make. Hermetic magic may return the poor victim to his proper posture, but only for as long as''

[|
''the restorative spell lasts. The constant use of restorative magic certainly causes Warping Points over time. (Rego Corpus effect)''

|]
''Warts: The victim is completely covered in warts, diminutive discolorations of the skin, and knobby protrusions. Social rolls that the target makes are penalized''

[|
''Fifteen years after his apprenticeship, Hephaestion’s venditor fi nagles an extremely lucrative deal with Lord Guigues of Dauphiné, who wants a mechanized magpie for his bedchamber. Having only recently been Initiated into the Mystery of Automata, Hephaestion begins the enchantment process with trepidation. He decides to make a tin magpie. Its Magic Might is 11, base 10 + Size (–4) + material (5 for base metal).''
''Hephaestion attempts to craft the automaton in the fi rst season. His Intelligence is +3 and his Craft: Automata is 2. His stress die roll is a 3 for a total of 8, not enough to match the bird’s Magic Might. Failing the fi rst season, he tries the next, with a +1 bonus for the previously failed attempt. His second stress die roll is 4, which gives him a 10 total (die roll 4 + 3 Intelligence + 2 Craft: Automata + 1 previously failed season). Trying a third time, he rolls 6 for a total of 13 (die roll 6 + 3 Intelligence + 2 Craft: Automata + 2 previously failed seasons) and successfully builds the automaton. Using the conventional vis price (one pawn of vis equals ten Mythic Pounds), the material cost of these three seasons is 130 Pounds (Magic Might 11 + 2 failed seasons).''
''In the fourth season, Hephaestion easily prepares the automaton for enchantment. Because he knows the Minor Inner Mystery of Elder Runes, the maximum vis he can use in a season to enchant an item is 20 (5 Magic Theory x 4 Philosophiae). Eleven pawns of Terram vis are required to open the magpie for enchantment.''
''Already a year into the process, Hephaestion enchants the magpie to sing. Singing is a base 5 Creo Imaginem effect. He specifi es the trigger for the effect (saying “Sing,”) includes the command “Cease,” and gives it an effect frequency of three uses a day. The fi nal effect level of this power is 10.''
''Hephaestion’s Creo Imaginem Lab Total + Hubris is 22. The power is instilled in one season and costs a pawn of either Creo or Imaginem vis. The automaton can hold ten more pawns of vis.''
''Hephaestion would like the bird to fl y, but that is beyond him. However, he can enchant it to hop. He instills the “dutiful movement” power, a base Rego Terram effect of 20. He gives this power a similar trigger, a “Cease” command, and three uses per day for a fi nal level of effect of 25. His Rego Terram Lab Total + Hubris is 40, and he can complete this enchantment in two seasons for a cost of three pawns of Art-specifi c vis.''
''Finally, Hephaestion decides that he should enchant the bird to explode if necessary, although only another Verditius magus would understand why this might be “necessary.” The power causes the bird to explode into pieces that fl y out in a circular spray and do +5 damage to anyone with a pace of distance. Player and storyguide decide that this is a level 5 Rego Terram effect (base 3, +2 Group). The Target is Group rather than Part because it affects the entire construction. It can only happen once, upon a verbal command, so the fi nal level of effect is 10. Hephaestion’s Rego Terram Lab Total is still 40. He easily instills this power at the cost of one pawn of Terram vis.''
''Hephaestion has spent two years enchanting this automaton. As the last season ends, he casts a level 30 Tie the Threads that Bind, which is higher than the automaton’s Magic Might 11 + 15. This completes the process and costs six pawns of Vim vis. The total vis cost for the automaton is 22 pawns. Hephaestion charges Guigues 460 Mythic Pounds, 330 for the vis used and 130 for construction expenses. This is half the cost of an entire castle! Guigues baulks at the cost but accepts the bargain, much to the chagrin of his already overtaxed tenants.''

==Automaton Example==

''by –3, due to his repugnant countenance. Imaginem spells may mask this condition and remove the penalty, but cause Warping Points if regularly used. (Rego Corpus effect)''
''Asses’ Ears: The victim’s ears change into donkey ears. Her hearing is not heightened, and social interactions are penalized by –3. (Muto Corpus [Animal] effect)''

|]
''Crow’s Voice: The victim caws throughout his speech. Communication rolls are penalized by –3, as is spell casting. (Muto Corpus [Animal] effect)''

[|
''Cataracts: The victim’s eyes become clouded and white, limiting his vision. Vision-based rolls, and Advancement Totals derived from reading, are penalized by –3. (Perdo Corpus effect)''

===Major Curses===

''Aging: The victim must make an immediate Aging roll, followed by an additional Aging roll for every season that the Curse lasts. (Perdo Corpus [Vim] effect)''

|]
''Leprosy: A severe case of advanced leprosy overcomes the victim, whose nose, fi ngers, and toes immediately blacken and start to fall off. Roll a simple die for the number of fi ngers and toes that fall off, one per month. Aging rolls are penalized by –6. (Perdo Corpus effect)''
''Burning Flesh: The victim’s fl esh begins to itch as angry red splotches grow over her entire body. Any activity besides scratching requires a Stamina + Concentration + a stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to perform. Botching this roll means that the victim has scratched herself hard enough to cause a Light Wound. (Rego Corpus effect)''
''Brittle Bones: The victim’s bones become as fragile as a bird’s. Whenever the person falls down, lifts something heavy, or does any strenuous activity that might threaten a limb, he must make a Stamina + simple die roll of against an Ease Factor of 9 or break a bone. A broken bone is treated as a Heavy Wound and heals normally. (Rego Corpus effect)''

[|
''Demon’s Visage: The victim’s head transforms into the shape of a demon’s, appearing like a lion, dog, or boar head.''

|]
''The victim does not gain any combat advantages from this change. Peasants are likely to run away from such a person. Communication and social rolls are penalized by –6, as is spell casting. (Muto Corpus [Animal] effect)''
''Lust for Life: The victim becomes obsessed with sensual pleasure, usually in the form of sex, but food and alcohol are also sought out. Each season, the victim must make a Stamina + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to do anything besides follow his compulsions. Social interactions are penalized by –6, as it is instantly apparent that the victim is following a selfi sh agenda. (Creo Mentem effect)''
''Doubt: The victim is fi lled with doubt and second-guesses himself constantly. Before undertaking any activity, the victim must make an Intelligence + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to proceed with his decision. Failing means that the victim must try again in the next round. (Rego Mentem effect)''

===Removing Curses===

''Cursed characters have the option of merely letting the Curse run its course, ending after a few years or seasons. Unfortunately, they have no idea how long the Curse will last. This may prompt them to search for other means of removing the Curse.''
''The magical nature of the Curse acts as a leech, attaching itself to the cursed person. Perdo Vim spells targeted at the Curse can remove it. The level of the Perdo Vim spell must match the fi nal effect level of the Curse. If the Cursed person has The Gift, the Range of the Perdo Vim spell must be increased to Part, so as not to harm the person’s Gift. It is far easier to remove Minor Curses with Perdo Vim spells than Major Curses.''
''Minor Curses can also be removed if the item that bestowed the curse is destroyed. Merely breaking the device is inadequate; the magic of the device must be drained off and the item returned to its mundane nature. This is a good opportunity to fi nd a Verditius magus who knows how to smelt the magic from an item. The search for such a magus should provide the troupe with a story.''
''Major Curses are harder to remove. Smelting the magic off the device that bestowed the curse only changes the curse’s duration, from a number of years to a number of seasons. It does not make Perdo Vim spells cast against the Curse any easier. Magical and Divine creatures can remove the curse if their Might equals or exceeds the fi nal level of effect of the curse. Through their inherent nature, such beings can simply breathe on the cursed person and the Curse will evaporate. This remedy should provide the troupe with a session or two of stories, as the cursed person seeks a cure from an appropriately powerful mystical being.''

===Initiation of Bind Curses===

''Ease Factor: 21 (Major Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +12 Script Details: The Initiate must discover a unique item, a device made by the god Hephaestus or his counterpart from another pagan mythos (+6). He must take this item to his Mystagogue, and together they must investigate the''

[|
''item (+3). When it is understood, the Mystagogue Initiates the Initiate, who develops a burning loathing for other magi not of the House who seek such items (Minor Ordeal Flaw Hatred for Seekers) (+3).''

==Bind Magical Creatures (Major House Mystery)==


|]
''Knowledge of this Mystery allows the magus to bind the intrinsic essence of a magical beast to an enchanted device, drawing the necessary pawns of vis needed for the enchantment from the magical nature of the bound creature. Alternatively, the magus may bind a single power of a magical creature to his Gift, mimicking the effects of the Hermetic Virtue Mythic Blood. Developed by Verditius magi in the Thebes Tribunal, where vis is scarce and magical animals plentiful, this Mystery has permeated the House.''
''Magical creatures can be bound to greater enchanted items, including talismans and attuned items. The binding occurs simultaneously with whatever enchantment the magus is performing, either preparing an item for enchantment or instilling an effect into a prepared item. Any magical creature may be bound into a magic item as long as it has a Magic Might score. The creature must be present, contained in the laboratory for the whole period of enchantment. This usually necessitates magical wards or prisons, as few magical creatures are willing to live in a magus’s sanctum without being beguiled or encaged.''

[|
''Magical creatures typically have some form of vis that collects in their corpse at death. This process does not use that vis; rather, it uses the magical life force of the creature instead. This energy is measured in pawns of vis for convenience, as Hermetic magic has yet to develop another scale for measuring amounts of magic.''

|]
''During the regular enchantment season, the magus uses the creature’s Magic Might score instead of vis, slowly draining the essence of the creature as the enchantment occurs. Compare your magus’s Rego Vim Lab Total plus his Hubris score to''
''the creature’s Magic Might. The Lab Total must include a requisite Art based on the Art the creature is attuned to. For every point of Lab Total over the creature’s Might score, the magus gains one pawn of vis that is usable toward the enchanted device. The creature can only supply a number of pawns equal to its Magic Might. Thus, a magus could completely drain a creature and use all of its Might if his Rego Vim Lab Total were double its Might. The magus is still limited by the amount of vis he can use in a season.''
''The magic drained is not Form-specifi c, but can be used in any enchantment, regardless of the Arts required for the specifi c enchantment. The magus cannot store the drained vis to use at a later date. Any vis left over, either because the creature provided more than the magus could handle or it possessed more than the remaining points of Lab Total, is wasted. Power drained in this way is permanently lost from the creature, leaving it with a lowered Magic Might score. If all of a creature’s Magic Might is drained, it retains a Magic Might of 0. While it is still a magical creature, it cannot invoke any of its magical powers that cost Might Points.''
''The magus may also bind a power of the creature to his Gift. This process must be completed in a season. To bind the power to him, the magus’s Rego Vim Lab Total plus Hubris score must be equal to or exceed twice the creature’s Magic Might. The Lab Total must include a requisite for the Art that the creature is attuned to. The magus may choose any of the powers the beast has for binding, but he may only bind one power from one creature. This limit applies to the species of the creature. For example, a magus may only bind one of a unicorn’s powers to his Gift, regardless of how many unicorns he might have access to. This process costs a number of pawns of Art-specifi c vis equal to one-half the creature’s Magic Might score.''
''The magus may invoke the power bound to him at will. It is treated like a Hermetic spell, translated from the creature’s power into a formulaic spell with appropriate Technique and Form. The magus casts it like a spell, using voice and gestures, but you''
''do not make a die roll. The power has a Penetration of 0. If, however, the magus’s Rego Vim Lab Total is double the creature’s (Magic Might + 5), he may remove one of the verbal or gesture requirements. If his Lab Total is double its (Magic Might +10), he may remove both. Unlike a Hermetic spell, the magus may not choose to create the effect without words or gestures if he does not make that decision at the time of binding. He may also include Penetration in his binding ritual. Chose a Penetration Total. If the Rego Vim Lab Total is double the creature’s Magic Might + Penetration Total, he may add that Penetration Total to the power.''
''Binding a power from a magical creature permanently lowers its Magic Might. Its Might is reduced by 5 times the Might cost necessary for the creature to use the power.''
''In the 12th century, the Verditius magus Tierent adapted this Mystery to affect creatures with Faerie Might. That knowledge is included in this Mystery. If a maga does choose to bind a faerie creature, you must roll a stress die in addition to any other rolls you might make if she is experimenting. This roll does not add to her Lab Total. Instead, if you botch, she loses control of the capricious faerie magic and gains Warping Points equal to one-fi fth of the faerie’s Faerie Might score. Many Verditius magi are reluctant to use''

[|
''this Mystery on faeries, mindful of their Hermetic Oath and fearful of the consequences of molesting the fae.''
''Rumors occasionally circulate that suggest this process has been adapted to include Divine and Infernal creatures, but no proof exists that this is the case.''

===Initiation of Bind Magical Creatures===

''Ease Factor: 21 (Major Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''

|]
''Script Bonus: +8 Script Details: The Initiate must fi nd the body of a dead magical creature, one whose death she did not engineer in any fashion (+3). She must return the corpse to a magic aura and ceremonially prepare if for burial. For a season, she must perform the ancient Greek funeral rites for the beast, eventually burning it on a pyre (+1). With the ashes of the creature’s bones, she must create a magical urn with powers that resemble those of the creature. During the Initiation, she and the Mystagogue sacrifi ce the item (+3) along with copious amounts of wealth in another mock funeral (+1).''

[|

==Item Attunement (Major House Mystery)==


|]
''This Mystery lets a magus attune a greater enchanted item in the same manner that one attunes a talisman, after which he can sever the connection it has to him without damaging the item or its effects. These are mighty items, unlimited in their magical power by their shape or material, and able to hold large amounts of vis. Attuned items are coveted devices, both for their mighty effects and because the magus’s lingering personality triggers greed for the device once it is in another’s hands. These devices are the true “children” of Verditius magi.''
''A magus who wants to construct an attuned item spends the season in his laboratory preparing an item for this enchantment. He may disregard the limits imposed by the Material and Size Table (ArM5, page 97). The item can hold pawns of vis equal to his highest Technique + highest Form + Philosophiae score. If he prepares a device that pertains''
''to one of his Craft scores, he may add that score as well to the device’s vis limit. This amount of vis must be instilled into the item before he instills any spell-like enchantments on it, but it does not need to be done in the preparatory season and may extend into other seasons.''
''Once the item has been prepared, the magus instills effects into it as normal. Because of the innate connection the device has to him, add his Hubris score to all Lab Totals used while enchanting the device. Since this connection is so strong, a magus may only work on a single attuned item at a time. This device is an Arcane Connection to him until he severs the connection, which happens at the end of the enchanting processes. Once he has fi lled the item with powers, or sooner if he chooses, he severs his connection to it. Compare his regular Perdo Vim Lab Total + a stress die to 10 + the maximum number of pawns of vis the device holds. If it is greater than or equal to the number, he has completed the attuned item. If it is less, the device remains linked to him just like a talisman. If you botch, he receives a number of Warping Points equal to the total number of pawns of vis in the item.''
''The item retains its magical power because the magus has left aspects of his personality within it. The device has a Covet Device Personality Trait equal to his Hubris score at the time of creation. This lingering desire makes the new owner crave the item. For each season that the possessor owns the device, he accumulates 1 experience point. Once he gains 5 experience points, he receives a new Personality Trait Covet Device 1. This trait builds like an Ability until the bearer’s Personality Trait equals the device’s Covet Device score. The bearer must make personality checks to be without the item, and struggles to retrieve it if it is lost or stolen.''
''Unlike a talisman, attuned devices do not extend the bearer’s reach, nor are they affected by Personal Range spells. The bearer’s Magic Resistance does not extend around the item. However, because of the augmented vis capacity that a Verditius magus can put in them, these are often considered more powerful than the talismans of other magi.''

===Initiation of Item Attunement===

''Ease Factor: 21 (Major Virtue known to the Mystagogue)''
''Script Bonus: +10 Script Details: The Initiate must make a talisman. Immediately following, he must Initiate another Verditius magus into a Minor Inner Mystery that he knows (+3). The following season, he must serve the Mystagogue who will Initiate him, using the powers of his talisman in the task (+1). On one of the solstices, he sacrifi ces his talisman while the Mystagogue leads him through the Initiation (+6).''

==Virtues & Flaws==

''These Virtues and Flaws are for Verditius characters and their household members, and are not applicable to magi of other Houses.''

==New Virtues==


===Masterpiece===

''Minor, Hermetic For some benevolent reason, the magus’s parens has allowed him to keep the lesser enchanted item he made to prove himself a magus and pass his Gauntlet. This masterpiece must be a lesser enchanted item. You may design a lesser enchanted item that your character could make based on his Lab Totals at character generation, following the regular rules for construction of such a device. You ignore vis costs, as the magus’s parens provided those from his laboratory stores.''

===Forge-companion===

''Minor, Social The character is an unGifted craftsman attached to a Verditius magus and working for him in his lab. You receive 50 additional experience points, which you can use to raise the particular Crafts her master practices. As a member of his household, she receives protection and''

[|
''support, but she is not protected by any of the legal codes of the Order of Hermes.''

===Venditor===


|]
''Major, Social The character is a venditor, a sellingagent for a Verditius maga, bartering her goods to other interested mundane parties. He is most likely a minor noble, ousted merchant-guild master, or defrocked cleric. He may select Academic Abilities at character generation. You also receive 50 additional experience points that you can put in Bargain, Charm, Folk Ken, Guile, Intrigue, or any Living Language.''

[|

===Craft Automata===

''Major, Hermetic The character knows how to make automata, mechanical men and beasts. He has a score of 1 in Craft Automata. See the Major Inner Mystery Automata for details.''

==New Flaws==


===Spontaneous Casting Tools===


|]
''Minor, Hermetic The character must use casting tools to cast spontaneous spells just as he does for casting formulaic spells. He has 15 individual tools, one for each Art, which he must use in various combinations to cast spontaneous spells.''

[|

===Consumed Casting Tools===

''Minor, Hermetic The character’s casting tools are magically consumed after he uses them. It takes an hour to make a new casting tool. Regular casting tools do not allow the magus to make multiple copies of''

|]
''them, so he may not stock up on casting tools. Making a casting tool for a spell that already has a casting tool erases the magical connection from the existing tool to the spell. The magus does not need a laboratory to make casting tools.''

===Bound Casting Tools===

''Minor, Hermetic The magus’s casting tools are so personal that they become lasting Arcane Connections to him. Regular casting tools remain as Arcane Connections for a few weeks, his last years.''

[|

===Hobbled===


|]
''Minor, General Both of the character’s legs are severely damaged. She may not walk unless assisted by crutches or other devices, with which she can only move a mere half mile per hour. Any roll that requires moving quickly is penalized by –9. Her Dodge and other combat rolls are penalized by –6, and you roll double the normal botch dice in combat situations.''

===Confraternity Member===

''Minor, Story The magus is a member of one of the smaller cults of magi in House Verditius. He is eligible for his confraternity’s unique Inner Mystery and can easily fi nd Mystagogues to lead him through the Inner Mysteries. His fellow members may occasionally ask him for assistance, which he feels obligated to provide. He may not engage in vendettas with confraternity members.''

[|

===Grudge===


|]
''Minor, Story For some reason, based on a past event, the magus holds a large grudge''
''against one of his fellow Verditius magi. His feelings are so strong that they infl uence his lab work and extracurricular activities, although they are not strong enough to interrupt his lab work. He is constantly interested in what the other person is doing, what he is working on, and how he can outdo them.''

[|

===Primogeniture Lineage===


|]
''Minor, Story The character is in line for Primus of House Verditius. Either her parens, or her parens’s parens, is the Primus, and she is one of his descendents. She is at least three places removed from the Primus. She receives undue attention from the House, as they eye her as a prospective Primus. The other magi in the same line may also regard her poorly, hoping to somehow remove her from her heritage. Her ascension to Primus is far from guaranteed, and many events may transpire to prevent her from claiming the title. This should foster very political stories for her.''

[|

===Vendetta===


|]
''Major, Story The magus is engaged in one of House Verditius’ vendettas, mostly likely carrying on his parens’s vendetta against another Verditius magus. This vendetta stops just short of physical injury to him or the other. Neither of them will bring this feud to the Quaesitores, wishing to fi nish it themselves. The magus with whom he is feuding must be an NPC, who regularly takes some sort of action with which the character must contend.''

===Tools===

''Auger +2 shape wood, puncture wood Adze +2 beautify wood structures Basket +2 collect and preserve items Billhook +2 pruning Cask +3 induce drunkenness Cleaver +2 butchery, +3 Perdo Animal Cloth Shears +2 shaping fabrics Crowbar +2 moving stone Dividers +2 measuring Flail +3 harvesting grain Hatchet +4 destroy wood Handsaw +3 delicately shape wood Mallet +2 precision Manacles +4 binding Mason Chisel +2 shape stone Pitch Fork +2 gathering reaped grain Scales +3 weighing goods and money Sharp Blade +2 shape leather Shearing Shears +2 fl eecing Sickle +2 harvesting Scythe +3 reaping, +3 year-duration effects, +4 effects expressly causing death Small Hammer +2 building Snip +2 shape metal Trowel +2 building Tongs +2 controlling metal Spade +2 move earth''

===Trees===

''Almond +3 Creo Herbam Blackthorn +6 guardians, +2 dark fey Cedar Tree +2 binding spirits, +5 any effect with Mentem and Herbam requisites Chestnut +4 honesty, +3 justice Cherry +4 bloodshed Cypress Tree +3 spirits, +3 necromancy Dogwood +5 pixies Fig +3 sex magic, +3 gambling Hickory +4 Ignem, +2 majesty Hornbeam +6 strength, +6 Vim on hostile magic''

===Trees, Continued===

''Lemon +5 hearing Lilac +2 travel Orange +5 Sight Palm +3 animating wood Plum +2 blood Poplar, White +3 divination Walnut +4 mind''

===Trees Under Special Circumstances===

''Dead +3 affect living wood, +4 affect dead wood Struck by Lightening +2 Auram Twisted Tree in a Field +4 disfi gure, +3 disguise''

===Minerals===

''Alabaster +2 forgiving, +4 mental acuity Alexandrite +2 regeneration, +5 horses, +3 long life Amethyst +2 wealth, +2 hearing, +3 poisons, +7 drunkenness Basalt +3 Ignem, +3 Perdo Brass +4 demons, devils, and angels; +3 music; +3 Ignem Bronze +3 Terram, +5 darkness Cinnabar +5 dragons, +4 wealth, +4 language, +3 long life Copper +4 deftness, +4 effects that change its own shape, +2 sex magic Electrum +3 scrying, +4 Muto Terram, +3 deception Garnet +3 bonds of commitment, +2 vigor, +2 navigation Glass, Clear +4 invisibility, +5 seeing through something Granite +2 wealth, +3 Terram Ivory +5 healing Marble +5 wards, +3 Beauty Mercury +3 Terram and Aquam, +5 Muto Platinum +4 Air Sulphur +2 preserving or decaying, +4 demons Turquoise +4 necromancy''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
