
[|

=Into the Valley=

''“Antunnos, the collectors will soon come,” whispered Rani. “The trail has been cut. What shall come has been prepared for.” The sharp eyes of the magus glinted with cold cunning. “We have the harvest, now we return to the den. Today, we shall be prey. Tomorrow, we shall commission the hunters.” Antunnos put his robes in a saddlebag, concentrated, and took the form of his stag heartbeast. All that remained of the covenant’s vis harvest were the tracks of a deer and a boar leading off to a nearby town.''

==Storyguide’s Information==

''This story begins when an outer-covenant vis harvest returns empty handed. When the harvest site is investigated, it is found that the vis has been properly removed. Spells (InCo or InAn)  reveal that the magus Antunnos performed the harvest. Furthermore, it is common knowledge that he maintains a sanctum in town.''
''This story is designed to be linear. Seeking Antunnos brings the characters to a nearby town where he has a sanctum. The characters’ investigations incite a gathering at the town’s church. This, in turn, forces Antunnos to perform a “Great Ceremony” that awakens a number of heartbeasts in the mundane population. It is during this Great Ceremony that''
''the troupe are best positioned to end his plans. Thus, what appears to be a simple theft of vis spirals into a much larger threat to the covenant, on both a practical and legal basis. This adventure has been designed to allow the storyguide to use a nearby urban location. It is assumed that the player characters know of Antunnos. He may''

|]
''have spent time at the covenant during the past year, or used its Redcap services.''

==Part I: Seeking Antunnos==

''This section focuses upon confronting Antunnos and the return of the stolen vis. This requires entering the town, and finding Antunnos’ living quarters. Listed here are specific places of interest that pertain to this adventure. Antunnos has set up a sanctum in an estate property, which he refers to as his “den.” There is an ancient stone marker, a leather crafter’s shop houses Antunnos’ apostles, and last, but not least, there is a well-kept church that has strong ties to the local authorities (referred to as the mayor here).''

==The Estate of Antunnos==

''Antunnos’ “den” is protected by a Level 20 Aegis of the Hearth. Rani, Jane, Olaf, Lince, Igor, and Elsie were part of the ceremony. This property has been in his possession for five seasons. He is assisted by his bodyguard Rani and two servants named Jane and Olaf. It is a spartan, functional estate that is divided into two general areas. The public rooms of the house serve the general needs of the estate as well as being the meeting place for Wilderist teachings. The rear rooms are Antunnos’ clearly marked sanctum. This is where he sleeps, keeps a small library, and maintains his lab. His past seasons have been dedicated to field research: investigating the ancient marker; performing a handful of heartbeast rituals; making himself useful to the rural folk; and improving his Area Lore.''
''Confronting Antunnos about the stolen vis will be met with the return of said vis. Antunnos explains that he requires the characters’ support, and that this “theft and return” has been meant to illustrate the solidity of a single promise: Should the covenant support him in his Great Ceremony, he will dedicate this area’s resources to the covenant’s needs. Should there be issues with the Ceremony, refer to Antunnos’ Wilderist philosophy (see later).''

==The Ancient Marker==

''The immediate site of the marker has a Magic aura of 2, which overrides the local Divine aura at night. The marker itself ancient, predating Roman times. It has well worn pagan symbols shaped into it that convey “strength of the land.” The town has developed around it and forgotten about it; it might be a fallen standing stone in a cattle pen, or built into a wall. Last, it is obvious that it has been cared for recently. In game terms, this is the physical site of RossenAntunnuac (see later).''

==Lince’s Leather Working Shop==

''Antunnos’ most fanatical followers gave themselves over to the Mystagogue during the early months of his time in the town. Of them, three proved to be cunning enough to continue work''

[|

==The Town==

''Characters with the appropriate Int + Area Lore have the following information about the town.''
''Ease Factor: 15+ Information: The Romans had a permanent camp where the local town now stands named Antunnacum. It was a healers’ camp.''
''Ease Factor: 18+ Information: It is believed that an ancient Celtic (or region appropriate) tribe called this place Antunnuac “Home of the Farmer.” All that is left is an ancient stone marker.''
''The town is a community of 800, with half of its population outside of the town proper. It has an overall Dominion aura of 2, although this may be raised or lowered slightly as you see fit.''

|]
''ing within the town proper. They have taken sept names (see later). This trio became known to other Wilderists as Antunnos’ apostles, and eventually gathered together under the roof of Lince the Pelter. The property itself is well-used, but cared for. Many of the tools have been handed down from father to son. There is a house, a yard filled with drying racks, and a work shed. Worn paths lead from place to place. The buildings are as old as any in the town. This is the default meeting place of the Wilderists. Each apostle truly loves what they have become, and each passionately discusses the concepts of Wilderist ideals. Every simple heartbeast Wilderist visits at least once per month.''

==The Church of St Mary==

''The church of St Mary has a Dominion aura of 5. The entry hall of the church contains a single image of the Virgin Mary sitting on a throne with a church in her right hand and a town in her left. The inscription on this image is Mater Dei Patrona Civium (Mother of God, patron saint of the citizens). Father John serves this church and manages the nearby gelb. He has noticed a fluctuation in attendance over the past year, but tithing has remained constant and no obvious disrespect has been shown to the church. Given this, he has faith that this minor prob''
''lem will work itself out. The building and immediate grounds are well cared for.''
''The Gelb''
''A gelb is a rural church-owned farmland property. This one has a Dominion aura of 2. There are always at least five farmers and their families here, and the leader at this site is a farmer named Golta. These people are all antiWilderist Christians. Golta considers Antunnos a devil and had many conversations with Elsie before she gave herself fully to the Wilderist way (see later).''

==Part II: Enter the Church==

''Antunnos is being watched by church members who suspect him of pagan rites. When the characters visit Antunnos’ estate, or are seen publicly with him, the watchers report this to Father John. Within a day of a visit, Antunnos receives a summons to defend his alleged pagan activities. Antunnos, wishing to maintain a commanding public presence, complies. Father John is not ignorant of magic, and he has interacted with Antunnos for more than a year. Both men have the sense to maintain some level of civility to each other to gain the respect of the townspeople. John’s response is one born''
''of concerns about paganism: he suspects the player characters to be in league with Antunnos, who he thinks is the leader. Seeking to prevent trouble before it starts by challenging it publicly, Father John summons Antunnos to the church. This is the only time when all parties are peacefully gathered, so the player characters should feel free to involve themselves in any way that they see fit. It should be noted that Antunnos may be obsessed to the point of madness, but he is no fool. He does his best to forestall any violence by surrounding himself with his''

[|

==Story Seed: Town and Country==

''Although the town itself remains in a Divine aura, the countryside is not. After the two years of manipulations by Antunnos, the country folk are now left in a void. They were influenced by magic, with some actually becoming bearers of the heartbeast. Some have even renounced the Church. Many have been manipulated to speak against it. This is prime hunting grounds for Infernal forces. Accusers (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 43) could pave the way for the Infernal in the area. Vis sources may become tainted. Companions and grogs may inadvertently bring Infernally-influenced people into the covenant grounds.''

|]
''apostles. If he must run, he seeks the safety of the den while his apostles patrol the grounds.''

==Noon, at the Church==

''At noon, Antunnos stands next to the pulpit as Father John address him:''
''“We have no issues with the aid given to our town. Your wisdom in such natural matters is to be commended. However, there are some within the town who have a concern. It is said that you have been seen dealing with persons of questionable natures. Some say that you have engaged in pagan rituals. What say you to this accusation?”''
''Antunnos retorts that in studying the history of this town, he has simply encountered pagan sites that are part of its landscape. His purpose is higher: The illumination of the history woven within this town. He also points out his current living quarters were a gift from the mayor after saving his family from a servant who shape-shifted into an asp. Father John warns those observing of the sinful nature of letting go of the human form. He also warns that such magic is bestiality. Antunnos points out that Adam and Eve were stewards of Eden. He challenges John with a question: Is Eden within those who take animal shapes? From this, the gathering dissolves as the crowd polarizes''

[|

==Breaking the Code==

''The players should soon realize that Antunnos is breaking the Code of Hermes. First, interfering with mundanes (ArM5, page 14) should be easy to prove, provided that the characters can prove that Antunnos’ actions would bring ruin to his fellow magi. This is the most obvious charge. Characters must take care if they attack him before bringing a case to Tribunal, for Antunnos takes care not to attack them directly, unless to defend himself. Second, a Peripheral Code ruling in the Rhine Tribunal named The Guardians of the Forests (Guardians of the Forests, page 18)''
''says that the Order has a responsibility to slow the encroachment of the Dominion to preserve nature’s wellspring of Magic. It is further noted that such actions must not incur the wrath of the mundanes, else the Oath of Hermes will be broken, and due punishment meted forthwith. This Peripheral Code ruling is what Antunnos relies on to cover his actions, if he is in the Rhine. He is not harming the mundanes; he is improving them to better live within the aura produced by Rossen-Antunnuac. Should the player characters join Antunnos, then they too are guilty of breaking the Code of Hermes.''

|]
''into Wilderists against Christians. Father John quickly clears the hall in fear of further escalation. If there is some form of town guard present, they are slow to react, as Antunnos has previously cast Seed of Betrayal. At the exit, Golta storms over to Antunnos, screaming “Witchcraft! Demon!” He is roughly pushed back to John’s group by Mabsuthat and Rani.''

==Part III: The Great Ceremony==

''After Father John’s summons, Antunnos feels forced into the Great Ceremony at the ancient marker. He devises a historic, celebratory cover story for the event, gathering as many followers as he and his apostles can. Depending on your needs, this may be as low as 20 or as high as 100; the larger the group, the more attention it draws. On the night of the first full moon, Antunnos begins the ritual Initiation of the Simple Heartbeast (see later). He repeats this ritual until dawn, using Recollection of Memories Never Quite Lived as well as Seed of Betrayal (see later) on any mundanes who attempt to stop him. He is physically protected by Rani and the three acolytes, as well as surrounded by 10 to 20 other simple heartbeast citizens. As this is an Initiation''
''rite, there is no vis consumed. However, each Initiation is a deeply personal event and must be performed individually. In many ways, it is something akin to a magical baptism, or a marriage rite; it requires true acceptance and takes about 5 minutes. If the characters attach Antunnos before the ritual, it is likely to appear to Quaesitors that they attacked the Mystagogue simply for harvesting a vis stock. On the other hand, if they wait too long, the issues multiply. They have to deal with a large number of un-Gifted heartbeasts, Antunnos’ retainers, and possibly the awakened nature spirit of Rossen-Antunnuac. If the players decide to hide out in the covenant, bring the issues of the town to them or motivate them with a Quaesitor visit. If Antunnos and RossenAntunnuac come to power in a local town, there are many ways in which the covenant will face trouble.''

==Guidelines==

''This section provides necessary information not found in ArM5.''

==The Big Picture==

''Antunnos is a Mystagogue for clan Ilfetu and an outspoken Wilderist. Some may find his''
''anti-Dominion rhetoric frustrating, but others find wisdom in his meditations on the importance of wilderness spirits. Two years past, Antunnos and his protector, a man named Rani, entered a town near the player covenant. Both made themselves useful during that winter, providing aid to the hunters and herdsmen. Through these actions, the pair became something of a trusted oddity. One day, Antunnos saved the mayor’s children from a local potter who had shape-shifted into an asp (as planned by Antunnos). From that time on, Antunnos and Rani were granted rooms in a previously abandoned estate house in the town. Antunnos is far from being a helpful wise man. Antunnos sensed Rossen-Antunnuac within the walls of the town. He found that the spirit desired the removal of the yoke of the Dominion from the landscape. Antunnos realized that he could perform this task through his Initiation of the Simple Heartbeast (see later). To make this happen, he befriended the townspeople, while contacting like-minded Wilderists within House Bjornaer. Then, he drove a handful of rural townspeople away from the Church using Mentem spells, picking the three most dedicated to serve as his apostles within the town. Currently, he is gathering followers to awaken their heartbeasts in order to further soften the presence of''
''the Dominion. He plans to ally with the players’ magi to increase his strength for when the Order seeks to impose the Code. Eventually, with the town turned and Rossen-Antunnuac strengthened, the measures taken in this town can serve as a symbol for the Wilderist ideal, and an exemplar of a method of freeing nature spirits, should Antunnos survive the political ramifications.''

==Antunnos’ Wilderist Philosophy==

''The central goal for Antunnos is to raise Rossen-Antunnuac back to its ancient form. Antunnos is convinced that he will rewrite the Code through this ac''
''tion, whether out of madness or ego (that’s up to the storyguide). An important part of this plan is to have the player characters support the benefits that a magicheld urban center would create, and Antunnos is willing to put a lot of effort in to gaining their support. Below are some of the arguments that Antunnos presents to magi who oppose him.''
''•	 I represent all Wilderists in this matter. Humans have taken the magic from the nature spirit Rossen-Antunnuac. It is the responsibility of House Bjornaer to return it to vitality. This town will become a symbol. Do you seek a Dominionrich environment, or a Magicrich one?''
''•	 We are magi of the Order. You serve as this region’s mystical lords, those who maintain the landscape of Magic. You harvest its vis. You tame its beasts. Let the town become your allodial land. Antunnos does not care about property. He is only concerned about releasing Rossen-Antunnuac from the Divine aura. Making the town a kind of covenant seisin releases Antunnos from longterm management and legal responsibilities. •	 The die is cast. Is it better to destroy this re-awakening, or should we become the learned master of its evolution? The real argument is this: who should rule the landscape, the humans who depress magic, or the''

[|

==Concepts from Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults==

''Harmonists versus Wilderists''
''Central to the philosophy of House Bjornaer is the idea that the wellspring of all magic exists in those areas that remain in their pristine state, untouched by the hand of man. With mankind comes the corruption of such pure spirits, warping them into aspects of the fay. The defense of these pristine places has divided the House into two factions: The Harmonists, who believe that invasion of the wilderness by humankind is unavoidable, and thus teach that co-existence is fundamental; and the Wilderists, who wish to enclose humankind within the walls''
''of their cities, where they can do no harm to the wilderness.''
''Clans and Septs''
''The internal structure of the House is tribal, first subdivided into six clans, each of which is further subdivided into various Hermeticfamily-based Septs. This enables the House to maintain its diverse ideals, as well as showing organization and focused strength in times of need. Antunnos is a member of Clan Ilfetu, the most mystically inclined of the six clans. This clan administers to the cult of ancestors, conducting all the public rites of the''
''House. They are considered to be both blessed and moonstruck, and their core value is to teach. The clan also leads the way in the discovery of new Mysteries. This Clan maintains the Initiation Ritual of Twelve Years, which awakens the heartbeast within seeking magi. The overall political stance of Ilfetu is Wilderist. Septs are small groups of magi focused upon a singular task in the expectation that wisdom will blossom from the seeds of the like-minded. In the case of Antunnos, any success in this story may well foster a new sept dedicated to reclaiming pure spirits from mortal bonds.''

==Mystagogue Antunnos, Dark Strider of Bjornaer==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +3, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 63 (45) Decrepitude: 0 Warping: 4 (6) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Berserk, Clan Ilfetu (training in House Rituals), Heartbeast (Black Stag), Inspirational, Second Sight; Ambitious, Weak Spontaneous Magic; Deficient Form (Ignem) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Angry +2, Obedient (House Bjornaer) –3 Reputations: Wise One +1 (Clan Ilfetu) Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Fist: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage 0 Fist, berserk: Init 0, Attack +5, Defense +1, Damage 0 Soak: +1 (+2 when Berserk) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 3 (wilderness), Area Lore: Local Town 2 (nature spirits), Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Athletic 2 (endurance), Awareness 3 (people), Brawl 3 (dodge), Finesse 2 (targeting), Folk Ken 4 (hunters), Local Language 5 (rural dialect), Gothic 4 (Hermetic usage), Guile 3 (Christian rhetoric), Heartbeast 4 (taking animal form), Hunt 4 (small animals), Latin 4 (Hermetic terms),''
''Magic Theory 3 (Animal), Organization Lore: Church 2 (Bible quotes), Organization Lore: House Bjornaer 5 (modifying Initiation scripts), Parma Magic 2 (Animal), Penetration 3 (Muto), Second Sight 3 (ghosts), Survival 3 (forests), Teaching 5 (heartbeasts) Arts: Cr 5, In 12, Mu 14, Pe 10, Re 6; An 10, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 13, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 13, Te 5, Vi 5 Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 20/+14) Blunt the Viper’s Fangs (PeAn 20/+21) Eyes of the Cat (MuCo(An) 5/+25) Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude (MuCo 25/+28) Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo 25/+26) Mastery 2 (quiet cast, still cast) Lifting the Dangling Puppet (ReCo 15/+20) Peering into the Mortal Mind (InMe 30/+26) Recollection of Memories Never Quite Lived (MuMe 4/+28) Seed of Betrayal (MuMe 15/+31) Mastery 3 (quiet, still, multiple (x3) casting) R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind. Changes the target’s emotions toward their master(s) to contempt, such that she will readily betray him. Subtract 5 points from the target’s relevant Loyal Personality Trait, for the duration of the spell.  (Base 3, +1 Eye, +3 Moon) Transformation of the Ravenous Beast to the Torpid Toad (MuAn 25/+25) The Unbidden Task (MuMe 25/+28) R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind. This spell creates a simple prospective memory in the target, which repeats itself so''
''often that the target infers a reason for the memory. Simple memories, like, “I need to leave the back door unlocked tomorrow night” draw out reasonable inferences like, “because his lordship is sneaking out for a night on the town after her ladyship falls asleep.” Characters cannot be convinced to do things that are dangerous unless the character regularly faces that sort of danger as part of his profession. Houses of Hermes: Societates page 70.  (Base 5, +1 Eye, +3 Moon) Viper’s Gaze (ReAn 15/+17) The Wound that Weeps (PeCo 15/+24) Vis: 5 pawns of Animal vis, in the form of clean bear claws on a string around his neck. Appearance: Antunnos is a tall, trim man with pale skin, deep brown eyes, and dull black hair that shimmers auburn in the sunlight. He appears regal, yet friendly to those who speak with him. His sigil may be heard as the distant rumble of hoof beats.''
''A Wilderist, Antunnos believes that humankind must be penned. The modified heartbeast ritual will tether the humans to RossenAntunnuac. He also firmly believes that the six Clans of his House are fragmenting; dispersing it as a political force within the Order. From the town, he plans to strengthen Wilderist allegiances within House Bjornaer. This would enable the Wilderists to secure spiritual places, and potentially strengthen the Order’s fonts of magic.''

|]
''magi who are intertwined with the landscapes mystical spirits? Think of the new sources of vis that may develop! •	 It has been two years. Do you believe I have been idle? He has allies within the Clans of Ilfetu, Maruhs, and Midusulf. He knows the landscape, and its resources. His followers know of the covenant, should Antunnos be martyred.''

==Preventing Railroading==

''There are certainly many interesting stories arising if the player characters choose to join Antunnos. However, they focus more on avoiding Hermetic justice than on the philosophy of''
''House Bjornaer, so storyguides may want to encourage their troupes to oppose him. Here are three suggestions.''
''•	 Play Antunnos as a megalomaniac demanding that the magi choose his Wilderist philosophy above the Order’s Code. •	 Promote a sense of urgency by having a Quaesitor due to arrive in the near future. The Quaesitor is coming to discuss how best to stop Antunnos’ activities in the town. •	 Bring in the Divine. The ritual might be rendered impossible, pushing Antunnos over the edge and leaving the troupe with a wild mob to contend with.''

==The Characters==

''This section provides statistics and descriptions for the important characters in this story.''

==Rossen-Antunnuac==

''This spirit is comatose. It should be noted that although it is the focus of Antunnos’ energies, it is too weak to function. The ancient marker is where it is bound to the mortal world. It is a Genius Loci (Realms of Power: Magic, page 106–7) aligned with Herbam. Constant magical activity over the site of Rossen-Antunnuac eventually awakens the nature spirit. It will be weak (Magic Might 5 or 10 at best) on awakening, but given a few months of generous support, it achieves Magic Might 40. Rossen-Antunnuac’s rise also''

[|

==The Black Stag, Antunnos’ Heartbeast==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com –5, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Berserk, Clan Ilfetu, Heartbeast (Black Stag), Inspirational, Second Sight; Ambitious, Weak Spontaneous Magic; Deficient Form (Ignem) Qualities: Defensive Fighter, Extra Natural Weapons, Large Antlers, Fast Runner, Good Jumper, Sharp Ears Personality Traits: Brave +3, Calculating +2, Obedient (House Bjornaer) –3 Reputations: Noble (local) 2''
''Combat: Antlers: Init +4, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +5 Hooves: Init +4, Attack +6, Defense +8, Damage +3 Antlers, Berserk: Init +4, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +5 Hooves, Berserk: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +3 Soak: +2 (additional +2 when Berserk, +5 with Gift of the Bears Fortitude) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (sprinting), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 4 (dodge), Survival 3 (woodlands)''

==Story Seed: Eden Returns?==

''Should Rossen-Antunnuac return, plant life seems to thrive. In the midst of the town sits the church of St Mary, unscathed and pristine. Rumors of beast-men have been recorded. The local bishop or archbishop will respond to these changes. Being well educated and not fearful of using the military to support his views of the law, how would he assess the town? Are these beast-men evil or useful? Could this be a sign of Eden’s Return?''

|]
''increases the Magic aura, and by the time the spirit has regained a Might of 40, the Magic aura over the town reaches 4, enough to suppress the Dominion aura anywhere outside the church.''

==Rani==

''Rani was raised in the forest hovel of a clan of Pomeranian witches, a sworn enemy of House Bjornaer. Set loose to seek a weakness that his clan could exploit, he came upon Antunnos. He knows about the Order, especially House Bjornaer’s kill-on-sight doctrine concerning shapeshifters. However, he has carefully exploited this knowledge to gain favor with Antunnos. Rani assumes Antunnos seeks the goal of House Bjornaer’s disruption. He has earned the reputation of being Antunnos’ protector, and is very careful with his''
''shapeshift skill. When Rani shapeshifts, each form requires a specific mental state. The boar form is his preferred shape and becomes available when he scavenges. When threatened, the bear shape becomes available to him. Finally, should he take any wound, the bull form becomes available, allowing him to charge through groups of opponents to safety.''

==Apostle Mabsuthat, Lince the Pelter==

''Mabsuthat uses the Specialist template (ArM5, page 21; primary ability: Craft: Hideworking), with the addition of a lynx heartbeast and the Flaw Magical Air. Through''

[|

==New Bjornaer Mystery: Initiation of the Simple Heartbeast==

''Ease Factor: 15 (Minor Virtue known to the Mystagogue) Script Bonus: +6 + Participation Modifier (see later) Script Details: The Mystagogue must possess Organization Lore: Bjornaer to perform this ritual. The Initiate must not possess The Gift. At the site of a nature spirit’s regio (+3), the Initiate renounces all spiritual beliefs and accepts the rites and practices of the nature spirit in question. This''
''grants the Flaw Magical Air (+3); however, animals of the same species as the Initiate’s heartbeast ignore this modifier. As at the Ritual of Twelve Years, the Participation modifier provides +1 for every witness who has the same temperament as the probationer’s heartbeast and –1 for every witness who has an opposing temperament. The Initiate’s final Initiation Total must equal or exceed the Ease Factor to succeed.''
''Notes''
''The standard heartbeast rules apply (ArM5, page 91–2). The heartbeast is a Hermetic Virtue, but Clan Ilfetu has also developed an Initiation that awakens the heartbeast of the unGifted. Antunnos refers to this as the ‘simple’ heartbeast. Initiation mechanics are discussed in The Mysteries Revised Edition and Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults.''

==Story Seed: Of the Bjornaer==

''No matter how the characters deal with Antunnos, House Bjornaer takes an interest. At the very least, magi want to talk to the player characters, and they may have much weightier requests, if many unGifted people with heartbeasts survived. If the player characters are interested, it will be a simple matter to become more involved in the House’s Mysteries.''

==Story Seed: The Ladies Move In==

''The Witches of Pomerania (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 9; Guardians of the Forests, page 99) have followed Rani’s activities. As the town embraces the Wilderist philosophy, the witches infiltrate the region. After four centuries of fearful hiding, the witches may have found a foothold against the Order. That foothold is Rossen-Antunnuac. Once they are allied to the nature spirit, where would revenge be best taken?''

|]
''his studies as a devout Wilderist, he has taken a liking to the ideals of the Midusulf Chieftain; he seeks to become a leader of human heartbeasts who would rule through action over birthright. His personality type is Choleric.''

==Apostle Ulama, Igor the Villein==

''Ulama uses the Hunter template (ArM5, page 21) with a falcon heartbeast and the Flaw Magical Air. The most mischievous of the trio, his beliefs as a Wilderist embrace the Maruhs Puck ideal; he simply wishes to shatter any''
''forms of human establishment that he can find. His personality type is Sanguine.''

==Apostle Vivopario, Elsie of the Glebe==

''Vivopario uses the Priest template (ArM5, page 23) with a viper heartbeast and the Flaw Magical Air. Although a woman, she has been raised as an orphan at the Church’s glebe outside of town. Over time, she shared the responsibilities of the farm with Goldt. She had also taken simple vows for an informal religious life. She represents Antunnos’ greatest triumph.''

==Jane & Olaf==

''These tow are the housemaid and guard of the estate. Neither ever leave the grounds and both were part of the Aegis ritual. Jane and Olaf are married, but the process of Antunnos’ heartbeast ritual forced them to renounce the sacrament. The pair are still very dedicated to each other (and, in the eyes of the Divine, still married). Jane uses the Witch template (ArM5, page 23) and has a lioness heartbeast, with the Flaw Magical Air. Olaf uses the Tough Guy template (ArM5, page 22) and has a wolf heartbeast and the Flaw Magical Air.''

[|

==Rani==

''Characteristics: Int –1, Per +1, Pre –1, Com -1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 27 (27) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Warrior; Shape-shifter; Dark Secret: Pomeranian Witch (Guardians of the Forest, page 99), Social Handicap (morose temperament) Personality Traits: Quiet +3, Wanderer +2, Greedy +1 Reputations: Mercenary +2 (Antunnos’ bodyguard) Combat: Bow (short): Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +8 Fist: Init +2, Attack +3, Defense''
''+5, Damage +2 Kick: Init +1, Attack +3, Defense +4, Damage +5 Knife: Init +2, Attack +5, Defense +6, Damage +4 Knife (thrown): Init +2, Attack +5, Defense n/a, Damage +4 Spear: Init +4, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +7 Soak: +2 (without armor) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21)+ Abilities: Bows 5 (short bow), Brawl 3 (knife), Craft: Hideworking 2 (skinning), Hunt 5 (forests), Local Language 3 (townsfolk), Shapeshifter 3 (boar, bear, bull), Single Weapon 3 (knife), Slavic 5''
''(fables), Stealth 5 (forests), Survival 3 (forests), Thrown Weapon 3 (knife) Equipment: Rani is generally clothed in wools that can be easily discarded if he should shapeshift. Any tool or weapon he uses is taken from the immediate environment, although he does keep a knife in his boot. Encumbrance: 0 (2) Appearance: A man of average build, with the straight nose, brown eyes, and soft brown shoulder-length hair of the Baltic people. He usually wears simple wool clothes and a heavy, hooded cloak to keep warm. His voice is soft and carries a subtle, depressing tone.''

|]

==The Mayor of the Town==

''The farms and herds of the region have produced well this year, with much of the gain due to Antunnos’ aid. Although officially a staunch supporter of the Church, the mayor sees to it that people speaking against Antunnos have better things to do with their time. On the other hand, the mayor detests Rani, and sees many accusations made against Antunnos as Rani’s fault. This is caused in part due to Rani’s handicap, and also in part due to an occasional magical nudge from Antunnos.''

==Father John==

''Use the Priest template (ArM5, page 23). Father John stands as the final anchor of the Church’s pres''
''ence within the town. He takes refuge within the church and seeks to bind the people together under the Word of God.''

==The Heartbeasts of the Town==

''People swayed by Antunnos are still few in number, and most live outside the central town area. Antunnos has used these men and women as test subjects in the development of the Great Ceremony. Should you need characters to represent the townspeople, use the Grog and Companion templates (ArM5, page 21–24). Beasts are listed in the Book of Beasts, available as a free download from the Atlas web site, or as an appendix in Realms of Power: Magic.''

[|

==Story Seed: The Rise of Rossen-Antunnuac==

''As the nature spirit RossenAntunnuac continues to gather strength, a regio forms (Realms of Power, Magic, page 103). Over the course of a single year, the local wilderness becomes pristine. Plant growth matures quickly and produces vibrant fruits. Spirit guardians begin wandering the landscape, protecting the passages to the local town. Should he have fallen during this adventure, the spirit of Antunnos may well have become bound to Rossen-Antunnuac. Aside from the immediate problems, the Order will be very interesting in a Magic aura that grows so quickly.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
