
[|
''An elderly merchant clutches the rigging on a ship as it is tossed about in a violent storm. His frightened gaze flickers between the struggling helmsman and a weak light in the darkness, which he hopes fervently is the lighthouse showing the way to the safety of the port. A wave the size of a castle rises from the sea and swallows the ship. In the foam and churning waters no debris can be seen.''
''Mythic Europe has aspects not involving faeries, griffins, and demons. Mundanes produce much-needed items with their hands and merchants use their talents and connections to distribute these wares. The explosive growth of towns during the 13th century provides ample opportunity for business as well as adventure. The story below illuminates the importance of arranging for supplies through well-maintained trade relations. It can''
''be used as a stepping stone for using City and Guild for stories about liaising with traders or setting up merchant businesses. Troupes who resolve bookkeeping and economics in a loose manner may find inspiration in the possibilities for merchant adventurers traveling to far-off lands and meeting foreign cultures at the edge of the known world and the Order’s influence.''

==The Missing Shipment==

''The player magi realize midseason that they are missing an important shipment of rare and valuable materials needed to perform their magical projects. The usual supplier — Charles — has failed to deliver the goods within the expected time frame. The delay is beyond what is reasonable considering the distances involved, resulting in an imminent shortage of materials vital for lab work. To add insult to injury, the agreement was that''
''he was paid in advance because of the exotic nature of the goods and the distance to the sellers. This arrangement has worked without a hitch for a number of years, until now.''

==Going To Town==

''A proactive approach is to send envoys to town to check up on things, and to see if any information on Charles is to be found. The journey is uneventful, although since at least the latter half of the trip takes them through populated areas any Gifted individuals in the group draw attention to themselves. This is a good opportunity to get socially adept companion characters into play. There are a number of logical places to start in town, among others the warehouse Charles usually rents and the taverns frequented by the laborers and teamsters employed by the merchants. Activities of this kind lead to a minor investigation covered below on a location by location basis in The Town.''

|]

==Waiting==

''If the magi simply choose to wait, a letter arrives by a mundane messenger within a few weeks. If the covenant has a difficult approach (for example, in a regio) the directions were found in Charles’ letters (see later). The letter is from a merchant named Simon who offers to supply what Charles obviously has failed to deliver. He cordially invites a representative of the wizards to his house to negotiate. Should the matter be ignored at this point, the shortage is there to stay. If a character attempts to procure some of the missing materials in town he certainly crosses paths with Simon.''

==Shortages in Labs==

''Stores of rare consumables and replacement tools have been running low since the''
''shipment was due to arrive. The shortage affects the magi from the start of the following season. The bulk of the substances consumed by lab work''
''is missing, as well as any specific items ordered (such as for enchanted devices). The situation both forces magi to postpone projects requiring specific''

[|

==Charles and the Shipment==

''Charles was an honest merchant adventurer who suffered a stroke of bad luck on one of his risky ventures to exotic lands in search of rare goods and valuables. One setback led to the next, and eventually he was goaded by Simon into borrowing money from him, using the expensive shipment belonging to the covenant as security. He was loath to come clean to the magi since he had already been paid in advance, so he tried to cover his losses. He took even greater risks than usual, skimping on the quantity of manpower and quality of ships, and had the misfortune to suffer a shipwreck with an additional cargo of gems''
''bought with Simon’s money. His original cargo of laboratory supplies are held by Peter as a neutral third party. Simon now believes this cargo to be his to sell to the original recipients at a higher price so he can make a profit.''
''The Coroner’s Ruling''
''As Charles’ body was found washed up on shore, the coroner (or other regional variation of this office) investigated for evidence of a crime. He found none, and the death was ruled accidental. No goods were salvaged after the accident. Charles’ body was buried within a few days of his demise.''

|]
''items until such are procured, and results in a general shortage hampering lab work. If only rules from ArM5 are used, the shortage means that the number of active labs must be reduced to half (round down). If the shortage is not dealt with''
''within four seasons, all labs need to be closed down completely. If using the rules for labs from Covenants page 106–124, the covenant can only support the equivalent of half of the sum of Upkeep values of all labs (round down). Labs need to take''
''Flaws (or remove Virtues) in order to reduce Upkeep to half of the usual value immediately, distributed in any way the magi see fit. Even though the funding in Mythic pounds is there, the materials are missing. Once the shortage has ended, any''

[|

==Use of Magic==

''Magic is the obvious tool to use for solving this problem, but this is neither easy nor safe.''
''Subtle Magic''
''The immediate resolution of the entire problem by use of magic — Mentem especially — is well within the scope of even recently Gauntleted magi. But remember that Mentem spells used to manipulate people have a limit of Duration Moon for standard Formulaic spells. Any deals made under magical duress will be reconsidered once the magic wears off. If someone is manipulated into signing a written contract, once he comes to his senses he will smell foul play and take the matter further. Bear in mind that sometimes this happens even if only mundane persuasion is used. It is not possible to mentally manipulate everyone for ever, and any Mentem magus worth his salt knows this. This being said, if the characters employ intelligent and creative methods the storyguide should reward this with suc''
''cess in manipulating Simon. Intellego Mentem gives easy access to information that may otherwise be gleaned from skilled use of social abilities. There is no real mystery as to what is happening; the challenge lies in negotiating a long term deal. Although mind reading reveals sinister business methods, it’s nothing s spy wouldn’t find out by shadowing Simon anyway.''
''Overt Magic''
''Apart from using Mentem magic on Simon there are many others ways to easily resolve the immediate problems by means of a spell or two. Finding, stealing, and moving the missing cargo is relatively easy, but Simon misses it and knows where to start looking for it. Again, this draws the attention of several influential individuals, and once the supplies run out again a new supplier must be found. Important authority figures like noblemen, guild magistrates, and senior clergy know of both magic and the Order, and all of them can and''
''will raise a case with the Quaesitores. Making Simon disappear isn’t hard either, but since he is an influential merchant this is also investigated.''
''A Hermetic Case''
''The Order does not know every thing that goes on in the mundane world. However, if the case with Simon is resolved using considerable magic or foul play the Order might find out in a number of ways. Simon knows he is dealing with wizards, and if he senses interference he will raise a complaint with his guild. The guild knows of the Order and has a way of contacting the Order with a grievance; the same goes for the Church and major nobles. Depending on the player magi’s situation there may be a rival or enemy who smells a rat and fingers them. Once this happens a Quaesitorial investigation starts, which could end with Tribunal proceedings for meddling with mundanes. An allied magus in the city could foresee problems arising and give a friendly warning in advance.''

|]
''new Flaws are removed without needing to spend time doing this, but lost Virtues take time to regain. If the shortage is not dealt with within four seasons, the sum of Upkeep of the labs needs to be reduced to zero.''

==The Town==

''The details of the town depend on individual sagas. This is the town from which the covenant buys the bulk of its supplies, so it is probably the largest trading town, or even a full-sized city, in the local area. For the purposes of this hook it is assumed to be a town with chartered trading rights ruled by a council of citizens rather than by a feudal lord. It is inconvenient if it is located too far away, so a location within a weeks’ travel fits well. Ideally, the town should be situated on a coastline or on the banks of a fair-sized river. Some of the player characters are almost certainly familiar with the town. It is, however, easy to adapt this hook to any town near the covenant; Simon and Charles could have set up business anywhere.''

==Information in Town==

''Facts and rumors are easily picked up at the taverns where the workers and craftsmen go, at''
''the marketplace, at any harbor, riverside, or grazing common the town might have. The offices of merchants or even the Trading Guild can yield information as well. Intrigue, Etiquette, Carousing, Organization Lore: Trading Guild, and Area Lore are all relevant Abilities, depending on where the player characters go. Characteristics usable are Presence, Communication, or even Perception, depending on approach. An Ease Factor of 9 is sufficient, while modifiers between –3 and +3 apply depending on the location, the Ability used, and on whether tactful bribes of at least a day’s salary are offered.''
''Simon''
''•	 He arrived in town five years ago, and set up a merchant house. His family has trading money in a city far away. •	 He deals in high-end goods like fine clothing, armaments, and silverware rather than lower class wares. •	 He is hiring manpower for making long trade ventures to faraway places. •	 He works as a moneylender, though as a Christian he does not charge interest. But he still manages to turn a hefty profit. •	 He rented the warehouse a month ago and paid for two years in advance for a new venture. Before that is was used occasionally by Charles''
''when he was in town. •	 He refurbished the warehouse and told the workers to look for hiding places under floorboards, between the rafters, and so on. No treasure was found, only old letters, for which Simon paid handsomely.''
''Charles''
''•	 He lost money when a ship was lost and set off on a risky venture seriously skimping on the manpower and quality of ships/wagons. •	 He owed Simon a lot of money, and Simon has Charles’ last, exotic shipment as collateral, held by Peter, a neutral thirdparty merchant. •	 He died recently. Depending on the location of the town he has drowned at sea or in the river, or has been killed by a landslide or collapsed bridge. The body was recovered, the coroner ruled it an accident, and he has been buried. •	 He had hidden some important papers pertaining to his past trade ventures, probably in his warehouse.''
''Peter''
''•	 He is a moderately wealthy merchant dealing in manufactured goods made from furs, leather, and cloth. •	 He is an honest and  reasonable man.''
''•	 He is seen as a rival by Simon, who tries to corner his market.''
''Timeline''
''At the start of the season in which the magi expected Charles’ shipment, Charles borrowed money from Simon. Two weeks later Charles died in the accident, and two weeks after that information of this reached town. Two weeks passed before Simon sent his''
''messenger to the covenant, and the messenger took a week to get there.''

==At the Warehouse==

''The warehouse is located in the trading district and is bustling with activity. All workers are wearing the yellow and red checkered armband which is easily found to mark them as in the employ of Simon the merchant. Builders are finishing re''
''pairs and refurbishment of the well-worn building. Teamsters and laborers load and unload cargo. The workers can’t and won’t say anything in fear of Lucas the foreman, who is surly and points all nosy questioners toward Simon. The warehouse is full of imported goods common to the area.''

==Simon’s Townhouse==

''The new building has many architectural qualities, but the inside is decorated in tasteless opulence, thanks to Simon’s failed attempts to make a sophisticated show of his family’s wealth and power. The house has a suitable number of servants, and several are burly thugs acting as bodyguards. The ground floor houses the office and reception chambers as well as the kitchen in the back. The upper floors house Simon’s chambers, guest rooms, and the dining hall. Servants live in outbuildings at the back. The basement holds stores as well as the vault. It is built sturdily of thick stone slabs and has a strong iron door with a good quality padlock. Here can be found Simon’s cash in silver, account books, and the letters he found at the warehouse.''
''Breaking and Entering''
''If player characters think to break into the house to learn more or steal something, it should be''

[|

==Peter the Merchant==

''Peter is a moderately successful and well-off merchant in his early forties dealing in cloth and leather wares. He does not see himself as a rival of Simon but will, in time, notice that Simon is in fact trying to take over his market. He grudgingly respects Simon’s success but fears his schemes rather than admires him. Peter was chosen as a neutral third party to hold the shipment of goods which Charles used as collateral when borrowing money from Simon. Peter expected this to be a straight-forward transaction and is genuinely sorry for the player characters about the whole mess. However, he can’t in good conscience give them the wares before a settlement or official ruling is reached. If he is approached with good sense and treated well he will testify on behalf of the covenant, and he may even offer to''
''make their case before the Trade Guild officials. Full game stats are not given for Peter. He has above average mental characteristics and all relevant Abilities for his trade. Key stats are Artes Liberales 3 (arithmetic), Civil and Canon Law 3 (commercial), Organization Lore: Trading Guild 4 (personalities) and Communication +2. If the player characters do not take matters before the officials but instead do Simon’s bidding, they might attempt to sabotage the leather goods in his warehouse. They may then be facing him as defendants in a future court session. If the situation ends amicably with Peter, he may become a future supplier to the covenant, albeit of necessary consumables and clothing rather than exotic goods and lab supplies.''

|]
''possible for determined and skilled specialists. Naturally, all doors and windows are secured with deadbolts, and a single thug makes regular patrols through the house. For game statistics use the Tough Guy template on ArM5 page 22, except that no armor is worn, for Soak +6 and his only weapon is a Club with Init +2, Atk +7, Dfn +7, Dam +4.''

==Smiling Simon==

''If the player characters answer the invitation Simon sent, or if they identify themselves at the house as representatives of the magi, they are received politely and with little waiting. If they assume other identities, their reception and waiting time''
''depends on how important Simon believes they are and how profitable a deal he thinks he can strike. In any case, a meeting is easy to set up. Simon receives his guests in a gaudy room cluttered with various tapestries, furniture, and nicknacks. Simon is devious and scheming, he is good at what he does, and outfoxing him by mundane''

[|

==Simon the Merchant==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 32 (32) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Capo*, Wealthy; Vernacular Education*; Avaricious, Dark Secret; No Sense of Direction * 	 These Virtues and Flaws are found in City & Guild page 109. Capo is a Major Social Virtue: Simon manages the trading company in this town. Vernacular Education is a Minor General Virtue, granting additional experience points for trade-related abilities. Personality Traits: Avaricious +6, Smiling +3, Devious +2 Reputations: Powerful Merchant 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Dagger: Init +0, Attack +5, Defense +3, Damage +3 Soak: +1''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Town 4 (business), Artes Liberales 1 (arithmetic), Bargain 6 (selling), Brawl 2 (dagger), Charm 4 (customers), Etiquette 4 (nobility), Folk Ken 4 (while trading), Guile 4 (half-truths), Intrigue 4 (plotting), Latin 4 (trade), Leadership 2 (merchant), Local Language 5 (upper class), Organization Lore: Trading Guild 3 (personalities), Profession: Merchant 6 (rare goods), Ride 3 (walk) Equipment: Fine merchant’s clothes, writing implements, dagger Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Simon is a handsome man, fair-skinned with a healthy complexion. His lightly curled hair is dark brown as is his neatly trimmed beard. He is al''
''most constantly smiling, giving rise to his nickname, but the smile has a sneaky and predatory quality. His sleek frame looks slightly more imposing due to the cut of his clothes, as well as padding in the right places.''
''Simon’s merchant father recently died of old age, and the four sons split the business between them. Simon was tasked with setting up a new venture in this town. It was perhaps the hardest task, but he relishes the challenge as well as the freedom to do as he pleases without interference. Besides his trading, he is also a successful moneylender. Since Christians don’t charge interest, his profit comes from impounding wares, ships, or buildings from debtors who fail to pay, and adding any expenses for storage and transport he can get away with.''

|]
''means is hard, as he is well versed in social abilities. Contrary to what one might think, Simon did not contribute by any direct action to the demise of Charles, but he did lure Charles into borrowing money with the covenant’s shipment as collateral; this in turn drove Charles to take unnecessary risks, even''
''tually leading to his death. Simon does not feel responsible for Charles’ tragedy, but is quick to take advantage of it. His long term goals are simply profit and overshadowing his rivals and competitors. It is obvious that he intends to milk the covenant for all the money and magical favors he can. The important point here''
''is that Simon genuinely believes the shipment to be rightfully his.''

==The New Deal==

''A business meeting with Simon is straight to the point. He offers the exact shipment Charles failed to deliver for a quarter more than the original price. He believes he can rightfully do this due to Charles’ unpaid debt; he does not know that the covenant paid in advance. If''

[|

==Court Mechanics==

''The plaintiff makes his case, presents evidence, and the court hears statements form witnesses. Following this, the defendant makes his case. The statements are not proof and fact, but rather testimony about the character of the plaintiff or defendant, testifying to the fact that he is innocent or guilty as the case may be. A roll of Communication + Civil and Canon Law or Artes Liberales (logic) versus an Ease Factor of 9 results in a credible statement. Both sides make a Communication + Civil and Canon Law roll with modifiers as listed:''
''Situation Modifier: –3 for the Gift, –6 for Blatant Gift, if speaking before the court.''
''Situation Modifier: –1 (to player character’s side only) per Gifted (non Gentle) individual in the court room.''
''Situation Modifier: +1 to Simon in Town Court if the Trading Guild already found in favor of him.''
''Situation Modifier: +3 for having''
''the majority of credible witnesses testifying; this may include player characters. Simon should have as many witnesses on his behalf as the player characters (though at least two), but if Peter testifies he may win the character this modifier.''
''Situation Modifier: +3 for having the better Reputation''
''Situation Modifier: +3 if the defendant is actually innocent. Note that Simon isn’t guilty of fraud, he has a credible contract for the loan. However, if the case focuses on the ownership of the shipment, then the player characters get this bonus.''
''The court finds in favor of the side which rolls higher. Court officials quickly settle the issue and pass sentence on the basis of the town charter or appropriate written law. In this case it is simply a question of the ownership of the shipment; no punishment will be administered. However, a moderate sum is to be paid by both sides for the court’s time.''

==Story Seed: Double Scandal==

''The scandal revealed takes on a life of its own. Maria’s mother Odile lost her husband to an accident shortly after the birth of the child. The priest took the widow in as housekeeper. On closer inspection, Maria does look an awful lot more like the priest than she does her plump mother. Exposing this scandal can lead to unwanted attention on the priest, who then goes looking for those responsible. Simon is sure to try to ride out the storm as best he can by fingering the player characters as the source of the rumors. A case of meddling with the mundanes can start to form if the player characters are not very careful.''

|]
''and when confronted with this and even shown a receipt, he is loath to admit defeat and insists that any fault lies with Charles. If the player characters give in to his demands, they will have paid two and a quarter times the original price. Even if the troupe does not use detailed rules for economy from Covenants, but runs things in a more abstract manner, this must have consequences. The storyguide should enforce the situation by ruling that the covenant lacks funds for long journeys, luxury items, hired specialists, and similar. However, doing Simon a simple, little favor would be worth a discount; see Favors later. Since this seems completely unfair, there are other solutions as well. Refusing to follow Simon’s interpretation means taking the matter to the Trading Guild. Simon is fully prepared to face this. Refer to the section Official Rulings later. The wares are in town, kept safe by Peter. Simon claims there are some challenges regarding transport. There is a shortage of ships or wagons (whichever is more relevant to the geography of the saga). Simon can deliver the goods in three months’ time; he is even so generous that he adds no extra cost for storage in the meantime. Alternatively, the characters could do him a small favor, which will free up transport to get the wares to the covenant in two weeks. See the section Favors, later.''

[|

==The Old Letters==

''The old letters found at the warehouse were hidden there by Charles before his last journey. Rumors of them had circulated among disgruntled employees, and the story is that Simon has them now. They are hidden in his vault, but this fact is only known for certain to Simon himself. The letters are old correspondence and contracts for deals with both sellers and producers of the rare materials which Charles dealt in, as well as with buyers (like the covenant). These are all highly useful for Simon, who wants to''
''take up this business in order to get hold of the supplies. They also give details of how to get in touch with the covenant. Simon will not sell the letters, nor will he let them go easily. He does remember most of the information in them, so even if they are stolen he tries to make a profit from the ventures, If the player characters become rivals, they have to compete with him. However, Simon has no particular interest in this business, so if it becomes too risky or low on profit he abandons the project.''

|]
''Future Deals with Simon''
''In the future, Simon offers to continue supplying the covenant with everything Charles used to supply, and he will do his very best to procure anything else they want. However, the prices go up by a quarter compared to what the characters are used to. Simon thinks it is quite obvious that Charles sold his wares too cheaply and was forced to lower his priorities on security measures and quality of travel arrangements. He also goes on about variable delivery times and fluctuating prices. However, there are a number of factors which might help, as his customers are wizards, they might be able to provide valuable wares for him to sell or be able to help in other ways. Simon suggests that he could easily sell books on magical subjects to nobles and academics in his contact group, fetching high prices. Simon knows of magic, but he does not know that the books are useless to unGifted buyers. Alternatively, he cuts better deals if the characters do him a “little favor.”''

==Favors==

''Below are ideas for doing Simon favors in order to help secure supplies for the covenant as well as further Simon’s underhand business strategy.''
''Spoiling Leather Goods''
''Simon asks the characters to spoil a shipment of leather goods waiting in a warehouse. If the player characters choose to do this favor, they get involved with the Tanners’ Guild and Peter. The goods need to be taken to a nobleman in the direction of the covenant. Ruining the wares leaves the wagons booked to make the trip free for Simon to hire. He has these pick up another shipment of leathers of slightly inferior quality in a village nearby which the manufacturer there cannot find a buyer for. As Peter cannot deliver to the customer, Simon can get a good price by picking up this deal. The wagons can then take the lab supplies back to the covenant and be there within two weeks. Simon is expecting something clever like ruining the materials, rotting the leather, rusting the buckles, or something along that vein. Burning the whole place down seems quite crude and is unlikely to have the full effect since guilds patrol the streets at night to watch for fires. Also, Simon has goons who could do that kind of thing anyway. The warehouse is located in the dense trading and manufacturing district in a small courtyard at the end of a narrow, winding street. The buildings are all close together, and most workshops or small businesses have their owners or workers living in the back or on the top''
''floor. Under these circumstances, a fire could spread easily and have disastrous consequences for the town as well as cost many lives. It would take callous characters to go through with this. Doors and windows are barred from the inside by the old, lame watchman, who is watching for fires, not intruders.''
''Further Schemes''
''By doing Simon the first favor, the player characters give him an opening to ask for more favors, and this escalates over time. The following favors initially seem innocent and altruistic enough, like ridding the area of bandits or clearing a road of a landslide. But suddenly there is another problem, and another. They could be dealt with in other ways, but that would mean more expenses or delayed shipments. In time, Simon wants jobs done that are still easy, but smell more and more of sabotage and ridding himself of competitors. The first favor could be for the player characters to take a group of bandits out of action. The bandits plague travelers and trade routes around the town; they might be pirates or highwaymen and camp out at a natural harbor, river ford, or abandoned farmstead. The bandits are a small gang of eight men including their leader. Use the Standard Grog templates for the bandits and Grizzled Vet''
''eran for the leader, from ArM5 page 22. Further favors might include: repairing a road and bridge disabled by weather and landslide; cleverly sabotaging a shipment of wares (e.g. wine) so the damage isn’t apparent until delivery; framing a craftsman, town official, or rival merchant for a crime; or discovering or fabricating evidence of a scandal in order to ruin a competitor. These favors ask more and more of the player characters, and eventually they risk drawing unwanted attention to themselves, be it from town officials, noblemen, guilds, clergy, or the Order. These are intended to be future events beyond the scope of this hook. For further inspiration refer to City and Guild pages 124–125.''

==Digging Up Dirt==

''If a competent character investigates thoroughly, the skeletons in Simon’s closet fall out. This can include following Simon around and asking questions among his peers. He has a secret lover, the young and beautiful Maria, who is married to a sailor who is away from home most of the time. Threatening to expose this scandalous behavior helps keep Simon in line if done correctly, at least for a while. If pushed too hard or too crudely, Simon calls their bluff and claim that the''
''consequences for those spreading such rumors might be dire due to Maria’s father (see later). Apart from infidelity, Simon has not committed any crimes or serious offenses. He prefers to have other people do this, and that is why he wants favors from the magi. His books and accounts are in order, and no guild or customer has any serious issues with his deliveries and deals.''

==Official Rulings==

''As the first step in establishing their rights to the shipment the player characters need to take up the matter with officials of the Trading Guild. They are the plaintiffs and need someone suitable to make their case. Although this may be a player character, the troupe may hire a local lawyer or Peter the merchant may play this part. A local lawyer can be assumed to have Communication +1, Civil and Canon Law 5, Artes Liberales 2, and Organization Lore: Trading Guild 2. Simon hires the very best lawyer in town with Abilities two points higher than this. Refer to the Court Mechanics insert.''
''Guild Officials''
''Rulings about trade are made by officials from the Trading Guild appointed from among the masters in town. At this''
''stage, Organization Lore: Trading Guild may be used instead of Civil and Canon Law, and the modifiers may tip the scales. If the guild rules in favor of the covenant, then they get the shipment. Simon does not take the matter any further, but he also refuses to deal with the covenant and may work against their attempts to trade with others. If the guild rules in favor of Simon, then the player characters may take the matter to the town court since they have good evidence to support their case, and Simon obviously only won because he is better connected.''
''Town Court''
''Rulings about crime are made by a council of magistrates selected from among the town’s citizens. Mechanics and modifiers as listed in the Court Mechanics insert. If Simon loses here, he may work against the covenant as mentioned earlier.''

==Setting Up Business==

''Any deal with Simon most likely sours in time, and enterprising player characters might think seriously about setting up a merchant business of their own. Alternatively, they might refuse to deal with Simon from the start. Such a venture is''
''beyond the scope of this hook beyond its inspiration, and thus it will not be treated further. It requires a companion or even magus level character to invest a lot of time and money in the process. Details about running a business, maintaining it, and seeing it grow are covered in City and Guild, as are seeds for stories to run in this environment. The book also contains many new and useful Virtues and Flaws, details about guilds and trading, as well as a system to keep records of how the business is thriving by means of Labor Points. A profitable venture takes local wares to sell in a foreign place and brings home valuable goods. The initial investment''

[|

==Setting Up Business Story Seeds==

''Ghost Ship''
''During the evening, the ship’s lookout spots a spectral ship heading to cut off the merchant ship. Once, a group of sailors capsized and drowned while hunting these waters for pirates, and their spectres continue this job. But what makes them think the merchant is a pirate? Is it the lack of permission to travel here, something in the cargo, or some dark secret of one of the crewmen?''
''Haunted Warehouse''
''A warehouse, empty for a long time, is surprisingly cheap to rent or buy. Too cheap! Rumors say it is haunted and that people get possessed by evil if they go inside. A heinous string of crimes were committed there, giving rise to an Infernal aura tainted with murderous rage. These sins affect the personality of anyone entering and might turn a disagreement into a bloody fight. The place is also infested with a pack of corrupted rats or a minor demon associated with anger.''
''Faux Pas''
''In a port far from home and in a foreign culture, a vital crewmen or trusted grog has the misfortune to anger a merchant. The merchant’s guards haul the miscreant off and imprison him, and horrible punishment awaits. But what did he do wrong? Was it a cultural or religious taboo? And how can he be saved: through diplomacy, a daring rescue raid, or the rattle of swords?''

|]
''is needed to buy such wares, as well as purchase or hire transport and staff. A local warehouse need not be kept on hand by the merchant venturer, only being needed if a permanent local presence is desired. The most pressing need is contacts or clues about what to deal in and where to go. Charles’ letters are a good start; the magi can try to get them from Simon. An alternative is for the magi to make use of the extensive network they have in the Redcaps. It would be appropriate to pay a small fee of silver, a favor, or a pawn of vis for information. Leads can be information on a place where the sought-after items''
''are available as well as names of sellers. Paying still more may even get a Redcap with local connections to act as agent and liaison. The investments could end up being quite significant, but also pay very well in the long run. Details on the merchants and suppliers are up to the storyguide to define for specific sagas. Each journey and each meeting could be stories in their own right. In addition to a trade business, the covenant could start up workshops to produce some of the equipment needed, but this is a greater endeavor since it requires many different crafts. The most important items needed for labs are glassware and metal''
''tools, as well as consumables like alchemical compounds, metals, and minerals. The raw materials needed must also be procured in order to manufacture the supplies. As the power of the guilds does not reach far from the towns, skilled craftsmen are not hard to hire, especially if the covenant employs those tired of the rigid rules or with little possibility of financing a shop of their own. Craftsmen moving to the covenant win themselves a bad reputation in town should they ever return, or may be unsavory characters to begin with. Nearby are listed a few story seeds to get things going, but beyond this refer to City and Guild.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
