
[|
''A naked and screaming baby boy is held aloft by a pale woman, wearing a long white lace bridal gown, standing in a verdant forest clearing. The forestedge is crowded with a fantastic audience: rank centaurs, fecund satyrs, valiant knights. Even the gnarled trees closely observe this ritual held at the forest-heart. A moment of irritation flashes over the pale woman’s otherwise calm face as she carefully pries open the baby’s chubby, clenched fist and slips a tiny gold ring onto his finger. The baby falls asleep and the beautiful, pale woman smiles serenely once more, sliding a larger''
''gold ring onto her own slender finger. The creatures watching from the forest-edge applaud and cheer the marriage. From among the joyful throng a band of faerie knights turn away and head out from the green forest-heart. Out toward the world of men...''

==The Faerie Queen Blegen==

''The beautiful pale woman is the faerie queen Blegen. She has a Sovereign Ward that means that she cannot leave her forested fa''
''erie kingdom. However, Blegen is insatiably curious about the mundane world. Her plan is to marry the infant, first-born son of a local noble and then have her faerie knights assassinate the noble. Her baby husband will inherit his father’s lands and, due to his infancy, she will rule until his majority. This will expand her faerie kingdom to encompass the local lands of men, allowing her to “break” her Sovereign Ward and venture into the mortal world. Blegen’s plan has three phases:''
''•	 Kidnap the baron’s baby son. •	 Marry the baron’s baby son. •	 Assassinate the baron.''

|]
''When the scenario begins the first two phases are already complete. The important consequence of Blegen completing her plan, from the player characters’ per''
''spective, is that the covenant is within (or very near) the noble fief she claims via her infant husband. Her suzerainty over the fief will cause it to develop a Faerie aura.''
''This may interfere with the magi’s magic, vis sources, and so on. This story is a hook for the Realms of Power: Faerie book.''

[|

==Faerie Queen Blegen==

''Faerie Might: 20 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com 0, Str –1, Sta –1, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Focus Power (forest queen), Increased Might; Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Humanoid Faerie, Personal Power (castle eyes); Narrowly Cognizant; Enemies (loyalists, Old Nanny), Proud, Sovereign Ward (faerie kingdom); Obsessed (outside faerie kingdom) Personality Traits: Proud +6 Reputations: Forest Queen (local) +5 Soak: –1 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Local 4 (forest), Awareness 5 (castle eyes), Bargain 6 (mortal men), Charm 4 (mortal men), Etiquette 5 (courtly), Folk Ken 3 (nobles), Guile 4 (mortal men), Intrigue 6 (plotting), Leadership 5 (faeries), Magic Lore 1 (court wizards), Music 5 (harp), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (House Merinita), Penetration 5 (castle eyes), Ride 3 (faerie beasts), Stealth 1 (courts)''
''Powers: Faerie Sight: This power allows the faerie to automatically distinguish mundane things from glamor, and to automatically identify another faerie’s glamor, and to automatically see an Arcane Connection (and know to whom it is an Arcane Connection, if that person is present). The faerie can also use faerie sight to determine the motives and goals of other faeries (Awareness + Perception roll against an Ease Factor equal to Might of other faerie / 5). See Realms of Power: Faerie, page 50 for more details. Faerie Speech: This power allows the faerie to duplicate the language spoken by her human audience. See Realms of Power: Faerie, page 50 for more details. Forest Queen, 1 point per magnitude of effect, Init –4, Herbam or Animal: The faerie queen can duplicate any Hermetic Herbam or Animal effect, up to level 25, that affects the forest, or its inhabitants. The power costs 1 point per magnitude of effect. Castle Eyes, 0 point, constant, Mentem: While the faerie''
''queen is within her castle she is aware of everything happening within the castle. To determine whether she notices something make a Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If she is specifically looking for the thing, the Ease Factor is only 3. Mundane and magical attempts to hide from the faerie queen have no effect, but this power needs to Penetrate the Magic Resistance of those sensed. Equipment: Long lace dress, silver tiara, wedding ring. Vis: 4 pawns of Herbam vis in a wooden heart. Appearance: The faerie queen Blegen appears as a beautiful pale-skinned woman wearing a delicate silver tiara. Her voice is crisp and authoritative, and it is difficult to judge her apparent age: mid-thirties seems plausible. Blegen usually wears a dark-green, long, translucent, lace dress, but she sometimes changes the dress’ color. Her hair changes with the seasons: in spring it is short and white; in summer her hair is long, sleek, and golden; in autumn wild, twisted and red; finally, in winter it hangs in black ringlets.''

|]

==Changing Location==

''For the story, the mundane noble’s fief contains a forest with faerie regiones. The faeries do not need to be the sole, or most powerful, supernatural inhabitants of the forest. If, in your saga, the lands near the covenant do not contain a suitable forest, you can move the faeries to a different sort of terrain. For example, Blegen can just as easily rule over faeries of the mountain, glacier, lake, or desert; replace her Forest Queen power, her specializations, and her Might Form as appropriate. You will also need to devise new descriptions for the faerie regiones.''

==Changing Power==

''The faeries may not be challenging for powerful magi. If the troupe wants to make the faeries more challenging, the easiest solution is to increase the Might Scores. The Major Faerie Virtue Increased Might increases a faerie’s Might Score by 15. The Minor Faerie Virtue Increased Might increases a faerie’s Might Score by 5.''

==Baby Marcus & Baron Frederick==

''Marcus is the baby heir of a noble whose fief contains the faerie queen’s regio and is near the''
''covenant. The covenant may be built within the fief too. For this scenario this will be the Baron Frederick, but choose a noble appropriate to your saga. A duke, count, or other noble rank can be used instead. Marcus is about a year old when the scenario begins. If planning ahead, you can foreshadow this story by news reaching the covenant, a year earlier, of Marcus’ birth. The birth of an heir could be cause for celebration by the noble and common-folk of the fiefdom. Apart from being Baron Frederick’s heir, Marcus is an ordinary mortal baby, and thus game statistics are not provided here for baby Marcus. Game statistics are not provided for Baron Frederick either. If in your saga, you already have established statistics for a suitable local noble, use those statistics. Otherwise, use The Knight template (ArM5, page 23). Baron Frederick has a dozen men-at-arms at his ready disposal; use The Standard Soldier template (ArM5, page 22) for them. The baron also usually has four vassal knights at his castle, but these have been replaced by faeries (see later).''

==What Happens==

''The following scenes give the player characters opportunities to become involved in this story.''

[|

==Faeries==

''Realms of Power: Faerie describes the nature of faeries. Faeries gain “power” or vitality from acting out roles in stories, even if the role requires the faerie to be “killed” or “defeated.” There is no game mechanic for vitality, but ultimately vitality motivates faeries. Most faeries are fully immersed in story roles and incapable of acting outside the role. Such faeries are Incognizant. A Cognizant faerie is fully aware she is merely acting out a role and can change roles to increase her vital''
''ity. A Narrowly Cognizant faerie lies between the two extremes and is capable of changing her role in a limited way. Blegen and Old Nanny are Narrowly Cognizant. The other faeries in this story are Incognizant. Most magi are unaware of the true nature of faeries. Faeries have Pretenses instead of Abilities. Faeries only imitate skills and knowledge, but only Cognizant faeries do this consciously. In play, use Pretenses exactly as Abilities, but very observant characters may notice something odd.''

|]

==Hooks Kidnap and Murder==

''The desperately worried Baron Frederick (or his servants) approach the magi for help to find baby Marcus, the baron’s heir. The baron’s wife (the lady Elaine) was murdered two days ago, and their baby is missing (presumed kidnapped by the assassin). Frederick’s four knights were also missing. The baron’s servants have since found the bodies of the knights. The knights’ throats had been slit, and the bodies dumped in a forested and fog-filled ravine not far from the castle. Surprisingly, the knights appear to have been killed months ago. This is surprising because the four knights have been recently seen at feasts, jousts, and hunts. Stories are told in Frederick’s court of faerie imposters that haunt the forest near his castle. The baron fears these faerie creatures have murdered and replaced the baron’s knights, murdered the baroness, and then kidnapped his son. It is not clear to the baron what might motivate the faeries, but it is clearly a problem that wizards can solve.''
''Responses to Kidnap''
''The magi may refuse or ignore Baron Frederick’s plea for help to find his kidnapped son and Lady Elaine’s assassins. This will greatly anger the baron, but he is too concerned about recov''
''ering his son to move against the covenant right now. In this case, the troupe should move on to the subsequent murder of Baron Frederick. If the player’s covenant responds to the kidnap, then bear the following in mind:''
''•	 It is easy to confirm with spells when the knights were murdered. It is obvious to mundane inspection alone that the corpses have been lying in the foggy ravine for months. The fog, which has hidden the corpses until now, is a faerie effect (cast by a faerie knight, see later). The spirits of the dead knights (if interrogated) tell of being ambushed and killed in the forest. •	 The baron’s huntsmen have tracked the faerie knights into the forest, where the trail disappears. The knights continued into a faerie regio containing the faerie queen’s court. Player characters with access to suitable spells can easily find the regio and continue to track the faeries. The trail is at least two days old before the covenant becomes involved. •	 Queen Blegen has already married baby Marcus. In the next few days or weeks, her knights will attempt to murder Baron Frederick (see later).''
''•	 There are many things that can be taken from Baron Frederick’s castle and used as Arcane Connections to find baby Marcus. Note baby Marcus is not actually in the faerie queen’s court: he is in the Nursery (a different faerie regio within the forest). •	 The magi may be cautious''

[|

==Lady Elaine==

''The baron’s wife, Lady Elaine, was killed by the faerie knights and her body left in the castle. Lady Elaine’s murder ensures that she cannot later have rights over the baron’s fief as his widow. Elaine’s ghost, if summoned, knows little of value. She was killed with a single sword thrust to the heart while she slept.''

==Contract Killers==

''It is assumed the magi are opposed to the faerie queen’s plan. However, magi strongly sympathetic to faeries (such as magi from House Merinita) might instead help the faerie queen complete her plan. If this is likely, rather than sending her knights to murder Baron Frederick, the faerie queen’s agents might first try to give the job to the magi.''

|]
''of involving themselves too readily in this mysterious kidnapping. There is a risk of accusations of either ‘interfering with the mundane’ or ‘molesting faeries’. •	 The magi (especially House Merinita magi) may already be aware of the faerie queen’s plan through their faerie court contacts. They may have even been invited to the wedding.''
''A Hidden Covenant''
''If the covenant is hidden from the mundane world, then word reaches the covenant of baby Marcus’ kidnap and the baroness’ murder through the contacts maintained by the grogs. If Baron Frederick is murdered, then word similarly eventually reaches the covenant.''
''Bad Relations''
''If the magi are already on bad terms with Baron Frederick, then he assumes that these disreputable wizards have something to do with the strange abduction and murders. In this case, the baron angrily approaches the covenant (or sends representatives) seeking the abducted baby, and may be expecting and willing to pay a ransom. The magi might try to recover baby Marcus to prove their innocence (or to ransom him back to his father).''

==Murder==

''A few days or weeks after Blegen’s marriage to baby Marcus her knights attempt to murder Baron Frederick. The knights either ambush him in the forest or sneak back into the baron’s castle to kill him in his sleep. The baron only has men-atarms left available to him at his castle (see earlier). His other knight vassals all have responsibilities and live on manors elsewhere in his fief. If the player characters somehow gather these vassal knights, the game statistics for the knights in Chapter Nine: To The Dark Tower can be used.''
''Saving the Baron''
''If the player characters try to protect Baron Frederick, then the success of the assassination attempt depends on player character actions. If the unsuccessful knights escape they return at a later date to finish the job. If the knights are destroyed, then the faerie queen makes no more immediate attempts. However, she sends new assassins over the following months and years. If the player characters do not try to protect the Baron, the assassination attempt is successful.''
''A New Queen''
''If the Baron is killed, Blegen inherits his lands via her baby husband. This immediately''
''causes a Faerie aura of 1 to arise throughout the barony. In many areas this new aura is swamped by existing Dominion or other auras. However, every spring equinox the Faerie aura increases by 1, until it reaches a value of 4. Blegen’s first action is to send centaur heralds to every village and town in the barony. The centaurs announce the sad death of Baron Frederick, and the succession of baby Marcus and his wife the faerie queen Blegen. The centaur heralds also announce that all feudal taxes are canceled for a year and a day, to commemorate the death of the old baron, and the life of the new. Blegen does this very rapidly and long before the death of the old baron is reported in feudal courts. Thus, her take-over precedes any similar attempt by the king (or neighboring nobles) to install a steward. If the player character’s covenant is within the fief, it is also visited by centaur heralds relaying Blegen’s message. Even if the covenant is hidden in a regio the centaurs are able to find it. On the other hand, being only faerie Might 5, the heralds are probably not able to enter the Aegis of the Hearth without invitation.''

==The Faerie Court==

''Blegen’s faerie court is densely forested, much more so than the mundane forest. The sea''
''sons and days pass at the same rate in the court as they do in the mortal world. There are many entrances to the court, which is a regio with a Faerie aura of 4. Anybody who is in the forest and can see the way to the court (see ArM5, page 189) can cross into the regio (and lead others across). Within the regio, if a character climbs to the top of the tall trees, the forest appears limitless in all directions. However, this is just an illusion. The forest regio is actually only a dozen miles across, but it has no edge. A character who walks far enough finds himself to have walked in a circle.''
''Apart from green forest, the main features of the court are a wooden castle and two large clearings, each of which is several acres across. The humanoid faeries of the court, including Blegen, live in the castle. The dense forest is haunted by a tribe of centaurs and wild bands of satyrs. One of the two forest clearings is used by Blegen as an audience and feasting hall. This clearing is verdant and grassy. The other forest clearing is a dead place. The ground is covered in thick ash and rusting shards of iron. This second clearing is avoided by the faeries.''
''Player Characters in the Faerie Court''
''If the player characters travel to the faerie court they find the faerie queen Blegen either in her castle awaiting the murder of Baron Frederick, or in the green forest clearing holding a feast to celebrate the murder and her ascension to her mundane title.''
''•	 Most of the court faeries avoid the player characters. However, if questioned, they readily say that baby Marcus is in the Nursery, looked after by Old Nanny. The faeries are excited about the recent marriage between Blegen and Marcus, and (if Baron Freder''

[|

==Faerie Knights==

''Faerie Might: 5 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –3, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Faerie Sight, Humanoid Faerie, Lesser Power; Passes for Human; Dutybound, Incognizant, Tradition Ward (garlic) Personality Traits: Brave +6, Chivalrous +3 Reputations: Knight (local) +4 Combat: Long Sword + Heater Shield: Init +4, Attack +14*, Defense +14*, Damage +8 * 	 Add +3 if mounted. Soak: +12 (Stamina + chain mail) Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Area Lore: Local 2 (forest), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 4 (weapons), Etiquette 3 (courtly), Leadership 3 (faerie knights), Single Weapon 7 (long sword), Speak Living Language: German 3 (courtly), Ride 3 (combat) Powers: Faerie Sight, see Blegen. Each of the four knights has one of the following powers. Javelin of Earth, 1 point, Init –4, Terram: The knight throws a javelin made of earth at''
''his target. The javelin automatically hits and does +10 damage, but must Penetrate Magic Resistance to be effective. (Lesser Power; 25 spell levels)  (Base 3, +3 Sight, +1 Rego Requisite; +10 two intricacy points to reduce Might Cost) Flame Sword, 1 point, Init –4, Ignem: The knight’s sword is wreathed in flickering blue flames. This adds +6 to damage with the sword, and the blade can be used to start fires. (Lesser Power; 25 spell levels)  (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter; +10 two intricacy points to reduce Might Cost) The Quaffing Knight, 0 points, Init –1, Aquam: This power vastly increases the alcohol content of wine or beer. The power can affect over 3,000 gallons — but has to be used multiple times to affect multiple vessels. (Lesser Power; 25 spell levels)  (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 size; +10 two intricacy points to reduce Might Cost, +5 increase Init) Fog of War, 4 points, Init –4, Auram: This power creates a bank of thick fog that covers an area of 16 acres (an area about 160 paces across). (Lesser Power; 25 spell levels)  (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3''
''Moon, +1 size; +5 one intricacy point to reduce Might Cost) Equipment: Full chain armor, long sword, shield, warhorse. Vis: 1 pawn of Corpus vis (in sword). Appearance: The knights appear identical to the murdered knights of the baron. They are armored, carry swords, and ride the horses of the murdered knights.''
''The speech of the knights is slurred and accented. This is because the faeries have concentrated their Pretenses in weapon skills rather than language — in fact, the faeries are marginally better swordsmen than the original mortals they are simulating. The unusual speech pattern of the faerie knights makes them sound slightly drunk. Apart from murdering and kidnapping for the faerie queen, the knights are dutybound to act in a chivalrous manner. However, being faeries, the knights are only simulating their chivalry, so a careful observer may notice something false. These knights are warded against with garlic. The knights cannot touch or harm a target carrying garlic and take +6 Damage if forced into contact with garlic.''

|]
''ick has already been killed) the faeries are happy that Blegen’s faerie kingdom has extended into the mortal world. If asked, the faeries will explain that the Nursery regio entrance is the darkest place in the forest, but they do not know where this actually is. •	 Unless the player characters attack first, the members of the faerie court do not attack the player characters. Apart from the knights (see insert) the only combatant faeries are the tribe of centaurs. The satyrs are not combatants. The centaurs have Faerie Animal Might 5 (see Realms of Power: Faerie, page 76). The centaurs are Size +3, have +8 Soak, and attack with a lance and shield (Init +1, Attack +14*, Defense +11*, Damage +11; * includes +3 “mounted” bonus). The centaurs attack in squadrons of five, but are not trained groups. The centaurs may not attack (and greatly fear) anybody who carries the sign of the cross. •	 The faerie queen does not particularly fear the magi. Although she has heard of the Order of Hermes, she views the magi as irrelevant and, once Baron Frederick has been murdered, she expects magi to obey her like any of her other subjects — if the covenant is built within her new lands. If the magi attack her, Blegen retreats to her castle, ordering her knights''
''and centaurs to cover her escape. Her wooden castle is incredibly and supernaturally large (it is actually another regio, with a Faerie aura of 6), and with her Castle Eyes power Blegen is aware of everything happening within it. This, coupled with the size of the castle, means that Blegen can quite easily avoid the magi once she is within her castle.''
''King in Ashes''
''In a previous age, Blegen ruled the faerie forest alongside a faerie king named Aethele. Clearly, Blegen needed to dispose of her husband, so that as a widow she could marry a mortal heir. Aethele was therefore murdered by''

[|

==Baby Marcus’ Cradle==

''Baby Marcus is asleep, gently cradled in a nest of web hung between two trees. Apart from Old Nanny there are no guards. Baby Marcus is naked except for a plain gold wedding ring, which is an enchanted item.''
''Quiet My Darling Husband''
''ReMe 10, 0 Pen, 1 / day R: Touch, D: While (Worn), T: Individual This faerie ring causes the wearer to fall asleep. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 While)''

|]
''Blegen’s knights, and his ashes, laced with iron, were scattered in one of the forest clearings. Today, most of the faerie court are loyal to Blegen, but a few are still secretly servants of Aethele. This hidden, loyalist court faction aim to resurrect king Aethele, but do not know how to do so. The leader of the loyalists''
''is Aethele’s old drink-master Guma — a tiny dwarf responsible for providing intoxicating brews at the faerie court. Guma has carefully maintained his position in Blegen’s court, and does not aid the player characters directly, nor reveal information about Aethele until he trusts them completely. However, if''
''the player characters investigate the forest clearing scattered with Aethele’s ash, Guma carefully observes them. Guma also quietly tells the player characters that baby Marcus is in the Nursery with Old Nanny, if it seems that they will not find this out by questioning other faeries. Guma has identical game sta''

[|

==Old Nanny==

''Faerie Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –5, Str +8, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik –1 Size: +4 Virtues and Flaws: Huge, Ritual Power (Web Weaver); Increased Might, Faerie Beast, Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech; Narrowly Cognizant; Driven (create webs), Enemies (faerie Queen), Monstrous Appearance; Reclusive Qualities: Aggressive, Ambush Predator, Skilled Climber (+3 Climb rolls), Tough Hide, Venomous Personality Traits: Secretive +3, Jealous +1 Reputations: Ancient Nightmare (local) +1 Combat: Bite: Init –1, Attack +12, Defense +6, Damage +9* Claws: Init –2, Attack +10, Defense +7, Damage +10** * 	 Old Nanny’s bite is venomous. If a character takes any Wound from her bite, check to see whether the character is poisoned too. Old Nanny’s venom is equivalent to an Asp bite (see ArM5, page 180).''
''** 	Due to Old Nanny’s many clawed legs she inflicts 3 Wounds when she strikes. If you are using the Group combat rules these Wounds are distributed about the opposing Group as normal. Soak: +3 (Stamina + Tough Hide) Wound Penalties: –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Local 5 (forest), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 3 (things in web), Brawl 5 (bite), Hunt 4 (prey), Profession: Weaver 10 (web), Stealth 4 (ambush), Survival 3 (forest) Powers: Faerie Sight, see the description given with the faerie queen Blegen. Faerie Speech, see the description given with the faerie queen Blegen. Web Weaver, 3 points, Init –9, Animal, ritual: This ritual power creates a thick rope of spider silk half a foot in diameter and two and a half miles long. The spider silk is as tough as iron and can entrap people as''
''described in the text. It takes an hour for all the silk to be created, and Old Nanny uses her Profession: Weaver Pretense to fashion the silk into webs (or other items). (Lesser Power; 25 spell levels) (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Size; +5 one intricacy points to reduce Might Cost) Vis: 2 pawns of Animal vis (in spider silk gland). Appearance: Old Nanny is an enormous spider. She is a black, scuttling, primitive nightmare.''
''Her usual tactic is to wait until prey is snared in her web, and then she moves in to deliver an incapacitating, poisonous bite to the comparatively defenseless victim. If a snared victim appears to be too tough (or armored), then Old Nanny merely waits for the victim to starve. Old Nanny flees from characters who are not affected by her webs and hides in a dark corner of the Nursery.''

|]
''tistics to Mateos the Faerie Butler (ArM5, page 194–195).''
''Faerie Knights''
''The faerie knights are identical in appearance to the baron’s murdered knights. Blegen’s four faerie knights could be encountered in her court. Alternatively, the player characters might be present when the knights attempt to murder Baron Frederick. The knights can fight together as a trained group, receiving a +12 group combat bonus (see ArM5, page 173). If the knights are captured they can be compelled, by magic, to reveal that baby Marcus is being kept by Old Nanny in the Nursery. The knights are unlikely to succumb to mundane persuasion or torture. The knights have not been to the Nursery. They do know that the entrance is the darkest part of the forest, but they do not know where that might be.''

==Old Nanny and the Nursery==

''In a dark, deep forgotten place in the forest is the Nursery, in which baby Marcus is watched over by Old Nanny. The regio is cramped, ancient, and covered in thick ropey spiderwebs. The tall trees of the forest, aged and wrinkled pillars, huddle together like shrouded mourners under sheets of gray web. Through the narrow gaps''
''between the web and the pillarlike trees, patches of blue sky and puffy cloud can be seen, but the light is strangely strangled. A close observer can spot that the web extends up into the sky, linking air to earth. Even the sun is caught in this sticky cocoon, and so it only illuminates the regio with a sickly throttled light. Everything else is locked up tight in Old Nanny’s clasp. Old Nanny is, of course, the architect of this trap… the arachnoid architect.''
''Entering the Nursery''
''The Nursery is a regio with a Faerie aura of 5. The entrance is the darkest place in the forest, and so the entrance moves around depending on the seasons and the position of the sun (or moon). A character can calculate where the natural entrance will be at a particular time by devising a horoscope for the location (Intelligence + Artes Liberales (astronomy) roll against an Ease Factor of 9). Each such horoscope takes about an hour to calculate and is only valid for a window of one Diameter. The character calculating the horoscope can freely choose the time at which the window occurs when performing the calculation. The Nursery can be entered by anybody at the entrance location who can see the way: by using a spell such as Piercing the Faerie Veil (ArM5, page 158), for example. However, note that characters''
''must not bring illumination with them when seeking the entrance to the regio — as an illuminated area will, obviously, not be the darkest place in the forest. On the other hand, clever spell casters may be able to artificially create the darkest place in the forest (using a combination of Creo and Perdo Ignem effects, for example). A magus with access to spells like Leap of Homecoming, and an Arcane Connection to baby Marcus, can instantly transport himself to the baby’s location without needing to find the regio entrance.''
''Moving Through The Web''
''The sticky webs that fill the regio make it difficult to move. Characters may freely speak and make gestures, but moving around (including flying) requires a successful Strength + Stress Die roll against an Ease Factor of 9. A single successful roll allows the character to move about for several minutes. Characters who are stuck to the webs may not make combat Defense or Attack rolls, and if a free character botches in melee combat he becomes stuck to the webs. Spiders and other spider-like creatures, including Old Nanny herself, can move without penalty in the regio.''
''The Time Trap''
''The faerie queen has tasked Old Nanny with the care of baby Marcus because Old Nan''
''ny’s webs have stopped the passage of time in her regio. The sun is snared and day neither waxes nor wanes. This means that baby Marcus will not age and will never enter his majority. Blegen will forever act as his steward. The freezing of time means that any spells (and other effects) cast with a long Duration in the regio do not expire. Momentary Spells still have an instant effect. Spells with Durations such as Until or Bargain expire if their trigger conditions are met, as usual. If the characters destroy a large amount of web, the sun lurches forward in the sky, releasing stored up time, until it is once again snagged by the web that crisscrosses the sky. It take a Diameter for the sun to be snagged again, and during this period everything in the regio ages by one year; make Aging rolls if required. This causes active spell effects with a Duration of Year or less to expire too. Causing the sun to briefly move in this way requires at least 1000 cubic paces of web to be destroyed; just freeing individual characters is not sufficient.''
''Old Nanny and the Faerie Queen''
''There is an ancient rivalry between Old Nanny and the faerie queen Blegen. Many ages ago, perhaps before The Flood, the people living''
''on the edge of the forest feared the dark, scuttling creatures of the forest and the greatest of their fears was Old Nanny. In that age Old Nanny had a different name, a primitive, primeval name; she was terror, the stench of death, and the dark of night. However, over the centuries the people tamed the dark forest, named the forest creatures, and no longer feared the dark places. At least not so much. Blegen, the faerie queen, arose, and Old Nanny, the night terror, shrank. Old Nanny is not part of the faerie court, but she is subservient to it and jealously remembers when she ruled the faerie forest and Blegen was a wispy, halfformed idea fluttering among the swaying trees. Although Old Nanny watches over baby Marcus for the faerie queen, she has her own story to tell. Old Nanny tries to kill some of the player characters if they make it into the Nursery, but she also wants some to escape (even taking Marcus with them), spreading the tale of the ancient darkness at the true heart of the forest.''

==Further Tales==

''However this Hook is resolved, the opportunity is created for further stories that involve the Faerie realm, if the troupe wishes. How the nearby mundane nobles react to Blegen’s claim to the barony may''
''also be important.''
''•	 If Blegen is successful, the barony near the covenant is gradually colonized by faeries. Eventually, the magi need to interact with these faeries, and the faerie occupation may attract visitors from House Merinita. Within four years the barony has developed a Faerie aura of 4. •	 Links to the Faerie realm may appear in the faerie barony, especially if the magi botch spell casting attempts or enter Twilight. •	 Vis sources within the barony may be tainted by the Faerie realm. •	 Many mundane inhabitants of the barony are quite content with Blegen as baron, even though some of the faeries are very frightening. This is because when the year long tax-reprieve is lifted the faeries collect taxes in bizarre ways that the peasants and townsfolk do not consider arduous; for example, “the first sheaf of wheat from the harvest,” “the last drop of candle-wax from a vigil held on the spring equinox,” and “the tails of seven cats.” The magi may suspect some of these taxes are vis (albeit probably tainted by the Faerie realm). •	 Blegen attempts to fulfill any feudal obligations she owes as “baron.” She swears fealty to the king, pays taxes, and''
''provides faerie soldiers for the royal army. To receive her oath of fealty the king must travel to Blegen as her Sovereign Ward restricts Blegen’s travel. As most kings regularly tour their kingdoms, this is not necessarily problematic. The king’s response (positive or negative) to the faerie queen may create further stories. •	 Neighboring mortal nobles (possibly including the king) might refuse to recognize Blegen’s right to the barony and try to overthrow her. Warfare between mundane and faerie armies could embroil the magi. At the very least, Tribunal Quaesitors will wonder (and investigate) whether the covenant has caused this conflict, and thus perhaps com''
''mitted Hermetic crimes. •	 If the magi prevent Baron Frederick from being assassinated, the faerie queen tries again in future years. This time she tries to distract the magi with some other issue before sending her assassins after the baron. Blegen may seek allies among the neighboring mortal nobles, agreeing to cede a portion of the barony to her neighbors, or offering them supernatural resources. •	 If the magi recover baby Marcus, it actually has little effect on the faerie queen’s plan: Blegen is still his wife. She tries to kidnap her husband again. •	 The player characters may try to get the marriage annulled by the local bishop, or the pope. This requires a''
''legal argument that the marriage was invalid (perhaps due to age, lack of consent, the faerie priest not being properly ordained, “faeries not being real,” etc). Faerie lawyers attempt to counter such arguments in the ecclesiastic courts. It is likely that baby Marcus will be changed by his marriage to the faerie queen, and he may develop faerie powers in later years. •	 If the magi kill the faerie queen, the faerie court is thrown into disarray: Old Nanny tries to reassert her power, the dead faerie king tries to reclaim his throne, and the faerie queen tries to be reborn too. Some, or all, of these factions try to gain support from the magi of the covenant.''

[|
''A hooded figure searches through the ruins of a Byzantine fortress under the light of a full moon, trusting the stories of ghosts to keep the curious at bay. Reaching between two stones, he extracts a tooth from a shattered skull, his grin of triumph eerie in the wan light. “If anyone is watching,” he thinks, “those stories are about to get stronger.”''

==Introduction==

''Long before Bonisagus introduced his unified theory of magic and founded the Order''
''of Hermes, powerful magic was practiced in lands far away from the heartland of Mythic Europe. These secrets are all but forgotten and lost, yet rumors and clues of some find their way to enterprising magi. These hints of great power and magic are worthy of the attention of the Seekers, who delve into ancient lore. Such magic is incompatible with Hermetic magic, but can be integrated for great benefit through hard work. Finding sources of insight can often be as hard as understanding them. This story delivers ancient artifacts by pure chance to the covenant, challenging determined''
''magi to investigate, seek, integrate and use powerful magic of ancient days. The intent of this hook is to introduce the player magi to the concepts of Ancient Magic — more specifically Canaanite vecromancy — and the search for and integration of such magics, as well as introduce the tradition and organization of the Seekers. For more information, consult Ancient Magic, Chapter 2.''

==Prelude==

''Prior to the first events of this story, the Seeker Argos''

|]
''of Bonisagus made a deal with Vito, a Genoese merchant, to buy ancient clay tablets from the Holy Land. Vito took the advance payment but doublecrossed Argos, rationalizing that cheating such an unsavory character couldn’t be a sin. Vito sent the clay tablets by courier to the Teutonic Knights, who had shown an interest in the artifacts as well. Argos is now tracking the tablets by magic through an Arcane Connection to the courier.''

==Events==

''The following sections outline the expected sequence of events for this story.''

==Arrival of the Courier==

''As dusk approaches, a sharpeyed person spots a wagon heading for the covenant gates at great speed. The driver looks scared out of his wits and the team of horses look near the point of exhaustion. They look like they are pursued by the devil himself, and the truth isn’t far off. Far behind him gallop 15 ghostly riders clad in archaic arms and armor, rapidly gaining on him. The driver pleads for sanctuary and entrance to the covenant grounds. Assuming this is granted, the Aegis of the Hearth causes the horsemen to retreat''
''and disperse. The driver is recognized by covenant members as Marco, a freelance courier sometimes used to transport or procure objects of a more sensitive nature. He often works for Vito, a Genoese merchant who specializes in such artifacts. He is by no means comfortable being in the covenant, and clearly nervous around the magi. However, seeking refuge here is better than the alternative. In his wagon the driver has a crate with the clay tablets from the Levant, bound for some undisclosed buyers within a few days’ ride of the covenant location. He has been warned that the tablets contain secrets best left untouched, and that they must not fall into the wrong hands. Tonight was the last night of the window of his meeting with the knights who had bought the tablets.''
''The Clay Tablets''
''The language of the tablets is obscure. Those with Hebrew 4 or higher recognize the text as an archaic form of Hebrew and thus stand a chance of decoding it. They offer clues to finding the ancient ruins of En-Dor on the basis of descriptions of Canaan from the time when it was a living culture. They also offer information as to the skills of the Canaanite necromancers, who had unsurpassed powers to speak with as well as summon spirits of the dead. These may be integrated into Hermetic Theory.''
''Marauding Ghosts''
''The ghosts of the kataphraktoi are disciplined and execute a tactical retreat once the Aegis repels them. Argos presses them into his service again using Coerce the Spirits of the Night; their orders are to terrorize the locale. He is not unnecessarily cruel and does not order mass murder, but the riders drive the populace from their homes, damage dwellings, livestock, and crops, and attack travelers going to and from the covenant. He deliberately has them drop his assumed name during raids, saying, for example, “Bellox gave orders to torch the place!” In Argos’ mind this furthers his diplomatic leverage once he goes to the covenant. The riders employ hit-andrun tactics to cover as much ground as possible and make a determined counterattack difficult. If they face a formidable foe the ghostly riders retreat and reform at their next raiding objective.''
''Argos’ Visit''
''Within a day or two of Marco’s arrival, one of the covenfolk spots a lone visitor approaching the covenant. This gray-haired individual insists on speaking Latin only and introduces himself as Argos, a Magus of Bonisagus. He asks to speak with the magi and acts as if he was expected. Once he is before some or all of the player magi, he demands that he is given what is''
''rightfully his. He patiently tells his story once, but tolerates no interruptions. He bought some Levantine clay tablets from Vito, a Genoese merchant, who took his silver but sent the goods to his bidding rival anyway. The courier carrying the tablets has been tracked to the covenant, and''
''it would be best for all parties if Argos simply took them and went his own way. If asked about the ghosts, he answers that the sinister Bellox from “some dirty necromantic cult” desires the artifacts as well. If not asked, he casually remarks that Bellox will probably try to get his filthy hands on them. He says no''
''more at this time. Argos tells his story and answers but a few questions. Canaan should be mentioned. He acts slightly offended if the player magi don’t immediately roll over and obey; he is apparently expecting the whole affair to be a formality. He agrees to give the player''

[|

==Mechanics of the Tablets==

''Decoding is a seasonal activity requiring a stress roll of Intelligence + Hebrew against an Ease Factor of 18. If successful, the tablets are revealed to be a Summa in Area Lore: Canaan. A complete sequence of six tablets is Level 10 Quality 15, with each missing tablet subtracting three from Quality. In total there are seven sequences consisting of six tablets, each of which is a separate summa. Some tablets are safe at Durenmar and some are held by the Teutonic Knights, but most are unaccounted for since they were scattered in Constantinople long ago. A more detailed description of the tablets can be found in Ancient Magic, pages 34–36. Precisely how many and which tablets the Genoese merchant was selling to Argos is up to the storyguide. The number of tablets found influences the likely style of any follow-up story. A set of four tablets results in a respectable study source of Quality 9. Fewer means that it takes longer to finish reading the text, but it might send the magi searching for other sources, or''
''more tablets. Note that the tablets are not the only texts available from which to learn Area Lore: Canaan. If more tablets are given to the player magi the research phase could become trivial, but leave more room for the actual search for En-Dor. This find should yield several avenues of investigation and research on which to start out. Remember that even a complete set does not make finding the location of En-Dor a trivial matter; the real challenge lies in the desert. A season’s worth of search requires an Intelligence + Area Lore: Canaan roll against an Ease Factor of 18 for success. This is for field work, Ease Factor is raised to 21 for research off-site.''
''Using an Interpreter''
''The player magi might come up with the idea of using a scholar from the outside as interpreter. For instance, any Rabbi or Jewish scribe recognizes the text as some kind of Hebrew, but he will not be able to read it until it is decoded. But bear in mind Marco’s warn''
''ing that these are secrets best left alone. Any scribe with even the slightest bit of knowledge about Judaism or Christianity soon recognizes the name EnDor and instantly remembers the warning about horrible necromancy. The player magi now have their hands full trying to contain the problem, as a conscientious scribe alerts his community. It should become clear that these tablets are something to be hidden by the magi and studied in the dark.''
''Copying the Tablets''
''Since the text is unintelligible copying carries with it the risk of making mistakes. Careful copying is done at half the standard rate, while copying at normal speed means –3 Quality for the final, translated text. Clever magi wanting to make rubbings or wax impressions need to take care as well, as the tablets are old, worn, and damaged. Such copies take but a few hours to complete, and have a –2 Quality for the text.''

==Veteran Kataphraktos Spectre==

''Magic Might: 18 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +2 Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: +1 Age: Appears to be in his late twenties Decrepitude: n/a Warping: n/a Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics x3, Large, Puissant Single Weapon Personality Traits: Brave +3, Loyal +2, Proud +2 Reputations: n/a Combat: Spatha* and Shield: Init +3, Attack +15, Defense +14, Damage +10 Bow: Init 0, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +7 *	 The spatha is a cavalry blade with no thrusting tip. Game statistics for a longsword are used. Soak: +11 (full chain mail) Fatigue: Tireless Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Animal handling 3 (horses), Byzantine Lore 3 (roads), Athletics 3 (hiking), Awareness 4 (battle), Bow 6 (short bow), Brawl 3 (dagger), Chirurgy 2 (sword cuts), Etiquette 3 (Rhomanoi), Leadership 5 (soldiers), Roman Army Lore 3 (elite forces), Greek 5 (military), Ride 6 (battle), Single Weapon 6+2 (spatha), Survival 2 (desert) Powers: Incorporeal, 0 points, Mentem: The''
''spectre cannot be affected by or affect any physical object. By spending 1 Might point it can make a chilling attack that causes a single Fatigue level instead of damage, disregarding Soak. A weapon affected by a MuTe(Me) effect of Base 25 will affect it. Note the kataphraktos’ power Reaching Through the Veil. Their bodies may be affected by physical magic (e.g. Creo Ignem) with a Mentem casting requisite, as may their spectral mounts. This power is always active. Reaching Through the Veil, 1 point, Init +1, Mentem/Terram: The kataphraktos can affect the mundane world and corporeal objects with his entire array of weapons for Duration: Sun, making him very efficient. Against a mundane opponent with wholly mundane gear the kataphraktos has +3 Attack, Defense, and Soak, which is not included in the calculated statistics. Defense against the kataphraktos is as normal, but physical attacks still do not affect him. Fearsome Appearance, 1 point, Init +1, Mentem: Anyone seeing the ghost must succeed in a Stress Roll against an Ease Factor of 6, modified by Brave Personality Trait, to avoid cowering in fear. Affected victims miss their next action and need to roll again the following round until successful. Power affects a group of up to 10 people.''
''Spectral Mount, 1 point, Init +1, Animal: The kataphraktos may conjure up a spectral horse as a prop for Duration Sun. He may ride across any terrain, including water, faster than any mundane horse can run on level ground. Affecting the mount is effectively affecting the rider, so it uses the kataphraktos’ Might for Resistance. When the kataphraktos is mounted, modify all Attack totals by +3. Appearance: Mounted warriors of impressive stature clad in archaic mail and helmets, from within a skull with thin, wilted skin can sometimes be seen staring with hollow eye sockets. Equipment: Full chain mail, spatha, shield, bow, camping equipment, and sometimes a warhorse if that power is used Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 3 pawns Mentem, finger bones from right hand''
''The kataphraktoi were the cavalry fighters of the Rhomanoi Eastern Empire. Statistics are given for veteran spectres from an elite unit; they have excellent training and years worth of experience. This unit consisting of an officer, two sergeants, and 12 soldiers were killed to the last man in the sixth century while on a mission to drive the pagans away. They have not received a Christian burial and have unfinished business.''

|]
''magi a day to discuss and consider, while he collects his possessions from his camp. This is mainly because he needs to meet up with the ghosts yet again to arrange for further stages of his plan, in case he doesn’t get the tablets right away. If offered hospitality, kind words, and genuine interest, he appears to thaw out a bit but still declines hospitality for now. Should the player magi hand over the tablets at once with no questions asked, refer to the section “Argos Gets the Tablets.” Should they want to meet him again and offer their help, refer to the section “Working with Argos.” In such a situation they have more time and opportunity to investigate, but there is little more to learn about Argos, except perhaps for stronger hints that Bellox is entirely fictitious and that it is Argos himself who controls the kataphraktoi ghosts.''

==Further Investigation==

''Because of the relatively short time span, the possibilities for a thorough investigation are limited, and unless the player magi’s covenant boasts detailed records of the Order like the libraries ofmagi Mercere or Guernici this could be hard. Well-connected magi with means of fast communication or transportation might reach such a place within this time frame though. The following bits of information should be available in these situations. The researcher rolls Intelligence + Ability against an Ease Factor set by the storyguide; for information on individual magi these are influenced by any Reputation. Relevant Abilities could be Organization Lore: Order of Hermes, Area Lore: Levant, Code of Hermes, or Organization Lore: House Bonisagus.''
''Modifiers can be up to +5 for a large collection of texts likely to contain the information sought, like records of Redcaps, other Seekers, or Quaesitores.''
''Argos of Bonisagus''
''Argos is of Trianoma’s lineage. Records show him passing his Gauntlet some 20 years ago in the Levant Tribunal. A bit of a loner like his mater Pharla, he followed in his mistress’ footsteps as a Seeker, with a focus on local ancient magics. He has made no significant contributions to the Order, yet.''
''Bellox the Necromancer''
''Since he is not a Hermetic magus, very little information can be found about the so-called necromancer Bellox. The name occurs in some legal accounts; he has a history as the villain blamed for various nefarious and sinister acts in the Roman Tribunal concerning breaking into and stealing from old burial sites. He must have crossed paths with Argos previously, since many of the times Bellox is mentioned is in testimony from Argos.''
''The Seekers''
''Seekers are a self-declared, informal group of magi looking for secrets of the Old Ones, extinct lineages of pre-Hermetic magic, or other Mystery cults with which to complement and''

[|

==Notes on Balance==

''If the storyguide feels that the player magi are too weak to face the kataphraktoi as written, for example if they are recently Gauntleted or completely without Mentem magic, the power level can be lowered. In addition to reducing the number of ghosts to as few as seven, reduce their Might to 12 or lower, reduce their combat Abilities, or limit their Fearsome Appearance power to give –1 to –3 to actions taken against them. Alternatively, you can''
''have the kataphraktoi be fully affected by mundane weapons when in corporeal form and therefore also affected by all physical magic without the need for Mentem requisites. However, should the player magi be seasoned veterans and skilled necromancers themselves, simply raising the Might should be sufficient. Consider having Argos use his Dirge rite (see later) to bolster the ghosts against spells of dominance and Might-stripping.''

==Argos, Magus of Bonisagus==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per –1, Pre +2, Com +3, Str –1, Sta +2, Dex –2, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 48 (47, Longevity ritual +5 used from the age of 35) Decrepitude: 0 (0) Warping: 2 (26) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Secondary Insight, Lore of the Dead*, Affinity with Mentem, Deft Mentem, Minor Magical Focus (Ghosts), Puissant Guile, Well Traveled, Chaotic Magic, Deficient Creo, Restriction (Sacred Ground), Susceptibility to Divine Power. *	 New Virtue, see later Personality Traits: Greedy +3, Enjoys complex plans +3, Callous +1, Perfectionist +3 Reputations: Seeker (Hermetic) 2, Methodical perfectionist (Hermetic) 2, Bonisagus Acclaim (Hermetic) 1 Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a  Being no fighter himself he uses his kataphraktoi to fight for him. Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Levant* 3 (Canaan), Area Lore: Italy 3 (pagan burial sites), Artes Liberales 3 (writing systems), Awareness 2 (alertness), Bargain 2 (spirits), Charm 2 (spirits), Folk Ken 4 (magi), Guile 5+2 (long term), Greek 4 (Romaic), Hebrew 3 (reading), Infernal Lore 1 (infernal ghosts), Italian 5 (Abruzzo), Latin 5 (Hermetic), Lore of the Dead** 5 (eyes of the dead), Magic Lore 3 (spirits), Magic The''
''ory (integration) 5, Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (Seekers), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Mentem), Philosophiae 3 (metaphysics), Stealth 3 (move silently), Survival 2 (desert) *	 As mentioned in Ancient Magic, page 34, Area Lore: Levant is a legal substitute for Area Lore: Canaan when trying to find En-Dor. **	 New Supernatural Ability, see later Arts: Cr 0, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 9, Re 12, An 3, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 8, He 5, Ig 0, Im 4, Me 18+3, Te 5, Vi 12 Twilight Scars: Smell of hot dust Appearance: Weather-worn face, leathery skin. Slight frame with little muscle mass but sinewy. Equipment: Practical travel robes on the road, comfortable robes when indoors, always fitting the climate and weather. All are of fine workmanship but old and well-worn. A necklace with fixed Arcane Connections to the kataphraktoi. He carries 8 pawns each of Rego, Corpus, Mentem, and Vim vis. Encumbrance: 0 Spells known: The Inexorable Search (InCo20/+15) Disguise of the Transformed Image (MuIm15/+11) Veil of Invisibility (PeIm20/+15) Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (PeMe5/+41)F''
''The Call to Slumber (ReMe10/+35) Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe20/+47)F''
''Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ReMe40/+53)-RitualF''
''Ring of Warding against Spirits (ReMe20/+47)F''
''Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi5/+23)''
''F Includes Focus''
''Argos originally came from a tribe of shepherds in northern Italy. From a''
''young age he had some strange abilities and was drawn to old, pagan burial caverns where no sane man would set foot. In such a place he crossed paths with Lucretia, a non-Hermetic necromancer, who taught him Lore of the Dead. Soon after, he was taken on as an apprentice by Pharla of Bonisagus, a Seeker from the Levant with an interest in necromancy. Pharla died a decade ago and Argos has continued her work, focusing on single aspects of her initial forays into necromantic secrets. He spreads rumors about the made-up character Bellox, whom he invented as scapegoat and deterrent in order to further his plans. Using the fixed Arcane Connections to the bodies of the Kataphraktoi ghosts, Argos dominates them by use of the spell Coerce the Spirits of the Night. This way he gets them to promise one favor to him at a time, each favor being defined as obeying him for a single long-term action. He orders them to ravage the countryside, and they do this over the course of a few days. Afterward, he may order them to stand by and come to his aid if called. If Argos is not sufficiently powerful to challenge the magi he can easily be modified to present a greater challenge. Making him older leaves room to raise Arts and invent new or more powerful spells. A higher Rego Mentem Penetration total allows Argos to command more powerful spirits using only the spells he already has. Within the scope of the core rules he could benefit greatly from an owl Familiar, a Talisman (staff, cypress wood, or with green turquoise), or enchanted devices. Several other books for Ars Magica Fifth Edition contain potentially useful material, and some of these are briefly outlined in Additional Material later.''

|]
''refine Hermetic theory. Seekers are nominally under the control of House Bonisagus, the House containing the most Seekers, but they are in reality individuals working autonomously. The first Seeker was Lucian, Trianoma’s first apprentice. For more details see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages pages 12 & 15.''
''Canaanite Necromancy''
''The biblical land of Canaan and its culture is mentioned in religious works like the Bible as well as by some classical authors; see Ancient Magic, page 35. The Canaanite necromancers had mastery well beyond Hermetic magic: they were able to affect the dead regardless of physical range, able to create Arcane Connections to the dead with only a trivial effort, and able to sense whether named persons were dead. There are also dire warnings about the consequences. If Hermetic limits are suddenly surpassed, contacting individuals thought dead and gone might easily resurrect old and implacable conflicts, like those of the Schism War. Houses Tremere and Guernicus would rather the secrets stay lost forever.''

==Dealing with Argos==

''Argos returns the next day as promised. If asked about the tablets, he briefly explains about them: they are reputed to contain clues''
''to finding a lost city with secrets of great importance to him. His explanation is littered with phrases that assume that the player magi know very well what he is talking about, such as what kind of magus a Seeker is and where Canaan is. Anybody asking for more detail reveals her ignorance to him, and he answers in patronizing ways. Having spent his entire life in the Levant, he is fascinated with the magics of old, and the spirit mastery of ancient Canaan is his life’s project. He wishes to discover these secrets and integrate their powerful potential into Hermetic theory. He speaks of the subject passionately, almost bordering on fanaticism, but gives the impression of having a purely academic interest in it and not being after any glory or power. The storyguide should secretly roll Folk Ken against Argos’ Guile, to see if anybody senses Argos is holding something back. If pressed, he admits to downplaying the risks: the secrets of Canaanite Necromancy could be dangerous or at least have major consequences for the balance of the Order if they fall into the wrong hands, Bellox’s in particular. Naturlly, as Argo’s House, House Bonisagus must take charge and prevent any problems resulting from Argos being first to find En-Dor. Argos awaits their answer, expecting them now to be sufficiently interested. He has decided that having a set of helpers with him to do the dirty work, or alternatively to draw the attention''
''of the Teutonic knights away from him, is useful indeed. He is open to suggestions and claims that Bellox is a manageable thorn in his side. There are several ways this can end. The characters might keep the tablets and send Argos off somehow. They might convince him to cooperate. Or they might just give him what he asks and lose out on the deal.''

==Aftermath==

''Multiple stories can kick off from the meeting with Argos. Here are some ideas for possible outcomes of the situation.''

==Argos Gets the Tablets==

''If handed the tablets, Argos goes on his way. The ghosts stay behind for another day to finish up their raids to add insult to injury, so they still pose a challenge to the covenant. The kataphraktoi follow Argos home afterward. This is the least desirable outcome, for the story as well as for Argos. The player magi have all but missed the boat on pursuing ancient magic. Argos has decided he prefers to keep the player magi on hand as patsies and he spreads rumors of the affair within weeks. Since many Houses and individual magi feel the secrets of Canaanite Necromancy are best left alone, a superior of the player magi or a Quaesitor asks them''
''to pursue the matter, foil the attempts to recover the secrets, and keep them hidden. The odds are that they will be sufficiently motivated to either find or eliminate the secrets by themselves. While not involved in this introductory phase, the Teutonic Knights may play a part later on, as outlined in Ancient Magic, page 35, and for this very reason Argos prefers to have other magi bumbling around as well in order to take the heat off him.''

==The Player Magi Hold the Tablets==

''The player magi can, with little effort, keep their access to the clay tablets or a copy one way or another. As mentioned earlier, many Houses feel the need to keep these secrets out of circulation, so whether the motivation is to find the place or prevent the finding of''
''it there are many chances for stories. Because many other tablets exist and at least one other group — the Teutonic Knights — are also known to seek En-Dor, the player magi must do more than just destroy these tablets to hide the place. The big wild card is what deal they strike with Argos. The tablets need to be deciphered and the texts read before an expedition has any chance of finding En-Dor in the Levantine desert. Prudent magi research further to find out all they can and be prepared for the search, as well as for whatever awaits in the ancient ruins. However, Argos is known as a perfectionist and in no particular hurry, so the magi need not feel that they can never catch up. In fact, he readily spreads rumors of himself being engaged in timeconsuming activities or suffering setbacks in order to motivate the rivals he is too arrogant to count as serious competitors. Examples''

[|

==Spectres==

''A spectre is a ghost defined by its work or role and keeps doing the same thing in the afterlife; it remembers and knows nothing else. Detailed rules for a deceased person returning as a ghost can be found in Realms of Power: Magic Chapter Five; information about the different kinds of ghosts is found on pages 115–116. The kataphraktoi are examples of spectres; they keep on taking orders to fight.''
''Simple rules for converting a dead character to a spectre are as follows. Might is assigned depending on importance and power, typically between 1 and 20. Virtues and Flaws are retained if applicable; note that most social or physical traits become irrelevant after death. Characteristics are unchanged, all Abilities relating to the vocation are kept unchanged but all others are lost.''

|]
''include him being called on as a witness in a Hermetic case, being severely wounded during his travels, or having set off on a chase for ghosts to bind.''
''Working With Argos''
''Although Argos initially just wanted to get the tablets and be off, he has since decided he wants another set of magi investigating and perhaps drawing attention. If the player magi are just a little diplomatic, they easily arrive at an understanding with Argos. He moves his research to the player covenant if need be; he carries with him his notes from his previous research. Otherwise, he can as easily return home to his work, and they can communicate through Redcaps. Argos now uses the player magi to make his work easier, and does not want to have the deal soured by Quaesitors or those magi wanting the secrets lost forever. His language skills means that the player need not bother learning Hebrew. He plots to allow the player magi to help him all the way to the desert, and then separate from them in a dangerous place. He could insert a cleverly falsified “reliable source” into the research material naming a somewhat vague landmark from the tablets as something else, in order to lead the player magi into a trap in the form of dangerous quicksand, malevolent jinn, or vicious desert bandits. Argos would rather the player magi got''
''in trouble themselves so he can avoid being charged with stealing their work. Argo is confident that this is enough to beat them to En-Dor, and that by keeping any secrets of what one must face in the city to himself, he believes they will fail — if they even make it that far.''
''Denying Argos His Tablets''
''It is possible that the player magi want the tablets for themselves and attempt to get rid of Argos. He may even be exposed as the one controlling the ghosts, thus being the very villain Bellox. The legal consequences need to be considered, though. Technically, Argos is right; he did lawfully buy the tablets and thus has the right to take them from the cheating merchant. By interfering the player magi are in principle guilty of deprivation of magic, but it is not the strongest or most aggravated case since they acted in good faith, at least to begin with. But if they insist on refusing him they face a Quaesitor, and if this should happen Argos is likely to win the case. Even if he is exposed as “Bellox” it is debatable whether he has broken the Code, since his ghosts have merely destroyed mundane property, not magical. However, destroying the food resources and scaring off the work force seriously hampers the magi’s activities. He is willing to accept a fine for this. Certamen may seem like a solution, but the contest can''
''not be used to force a magus to overlook violations of the Code nor to breach it himself. Argos will not accept a certamen challenge in which he gives up the tablets if he loses. Legal issues aside, the player magi can decide that Argos is enough of a pest to declare Wizard’s War. He is not much of a fighter personally, although his ghosts are a force to be reckoned with. He would rather retreat and cut his losses than risk serious injury. If he survives, he becomes an active enemy regardless of the outcome, and he is only more adamant in his charges of deprivation of magic. He tries to spoil the player magi’s chances of finding En-Dor and beat them to the place. The Teutonic Knights are certainly tipped off as are any magi wishing for the secrets to remain hidden. Should he be killed in the Wizard’s War, Argos’ story ends there, and the player magi now have free rein to pursue the secrets of Canaanite necromancy. If Argos had any intimation of what was coming, he leaves a letter with an ally or a Redcap to be opened on his death in order to tip off the opposition that the player magi are looking for En-Dor.''

==Appendix==

''This section contains some new rules used in this story.''
''Hooks New Major Supernatural Virtue: Lore of The Dead''
''The character can perform certain necromantic spell-like effects called rites, representing powers that are relatively common among cults of the dead, although not very widespread in Hermetic circles. This Virtue gives the character a Score of 1 in the Supernatural Ability Lore of the Dead.''

==New Supernatural Ability: Lore of the Dead==

''Rites may be cast either ceremonially or casually, using casting totals as shown later, with the Ease Factors listed for each rite. Ceremonial rites take one hour and may include props to utilize appropriate Shape & Material bonuses, limited by the score in Lore of the Dead. Casual rites take only one round, but the casting total is halved unless a Fatigue level is spent. Vis cost if any is listed. All rites need to Penetrate unless noted otherwise.''
''Ceremonial Rite: Stamina + Lore of the Dead + Shape & Material bonus + stress die''
''Casual Rite, Non-Fatiguing:''
''(Stamina + Lore of the Dead + stress die)/2''
''Casual Rite, Fatiguing: Stamina + Lore of the Dead + stress die''
''Penetration: Casting Total – Ease Factor + Penetration ability''
''Specialities: specific rite, casual, ceremonial''
''Eyes of the Dead''
''Ease Factor: 6, Mentem, no vis cost R: Personal, D: Moon, T: Vision This effect mimics Second Sight (ArM5, pages 48 & 67), and as such does not need to Penetrate. (Non-Hermetic, magnitude 1)''
''Touch of Ghostly Calling''
''Ease Factor: 12, Corpus, 1 pawn of Rego or Corpus vis R: Touch, D: Special, T: Individual When the target of this ritual dies, he returns the following night as a spectre, a specific kind of ghost (see insert) that keeps living out the role or vocation he had in life. The rite fails if target is given a proper burial. Other types of ghosts are beyond the scope of this ritual. It is treated as an ongoing magical effect until target dies, and causes Warping as a continuous mystical effect. The ritual can be dispelled prior to the target’s death, but not once he has risen. (Non-Hermetic, magnitude 3)''
''Dirge''
''Ease Factor: 9, Vim, 1 pawn of Creo or Vim vis R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room or Group The Might scores and pools of undead creatures are increased by five. Creatures do not regain Might points while under the influence of this effect. (Non-Hermetic, magnitude 2)''
''Anchored in the Veil''
''Ease Factor: 12+, Mentem, no vis cost R: Voice, D: Sun (may be varied); T: Group (may be varied) The caster can alter the nature of physical objects, anchoring them for a time in the veil between the world of the living and the dead. Physical objects now affect ghosts as if they were corporeal, or ghosts may affect physical targets without using any powers, so that it counts as a natural attack regarding Magic Resistance. Against a wholly mundane opponent or item an anchored object is superior and has +3 on relevant rolls, e.g. +3 Attack for a sword or +3 to open a lock for a lockpick. Objects are seen as shimmering and semi-transparent. Base Target covers an individual ghost and all its equipment since this is formed by the ghost. For a mundane, physical target the power affects one person or a single piece of equipment.''
''Ease Factor Modifier: –3 Effect: Decrease target to Circle (all armaments of all individuals inside)''
''Ease Factor Modifier: +3 Effect: Increase Target to Room or a Group of 10 individuals''
''Ease Factor Modifier: +6 Effect: Increase Target to Structure''
''Ease Factor Modifier: +3 Effect: Increase Duration to Moon''
''+3 Ease Factor increase per tenfold increase in size of targets Individual, Group, Room or Structure. (Non-Hermetic, magnitude varies)''

==Additional Material==

''This hook utilizes only material from ArM5, but troupes may be in the possession of more books and wish to explore these to expand its scope. A few choice references for such are given here. Ancient Magic, pages 30–40. Some information has been included in this hook, but having the entire book at hand allows the option of integrating the Teutonic Knights. This book also presents the rules and mechanics for integrating nonHermetic magic, which gives''
''a better idea of what can be gained from the secrets. Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 110–143 has in the Tremere chapter a lot of material on ghosts, such as spells and Virtues useful for a necromancer, especially if he works with ghosts who lack the ability to affect the physical world. Some of these could render Argos’ Lore of the Dead Virtue unnecessary, giving him room for other Virtues. He might want to take Second Sight instead. Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 89 features in the Tytalus chapter the Supernatural Ability Personae, which would be a way for Argos to expand the use of the fictional Bellox, and make it a long-term, deep cover. However, Argos may very well commit Low Crimes by doing this, or even breach the Code proper if he manages to create Bellox as a Hermetic identity. In this case there could have been a real Bellox in the Order who was a bit of a loner, and Argos kept his death a secret and took over his identity and sigil. The Mysteries, Revised Edition, page 129–131 mentions the Disciples of the Worm, which could be the sinister necromantic cult Bellox is said to associate with. The Necromantic Spirit Magic on pages 64–74 could be of use, especially Spirit Familiar. In addition, the common mystery of Potent Magic could really boost his Penetration.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
