''Lifetime: c. 857 AD – 1002 AD Overview: An advocate of peace slain on the eve of the Schism War, whose pacifist teachings changed the philosophy of House Bjornaer. His magical garden hosts a war of its own even today, as well as the secret of growing vis.''
''One of the legends of House Bjornaer was the magus Hérisson. Quite apart from his political importance to his followers, Hérisson was a theorist and experimenter who discovered a method for growing and multiplying vis. When the player characters stumble across the results of his experimentation, they can''
''follow a trail of clues to his garden, a magical paradise filled with remarkable magical plants and the means to recreate his method of Hermetic vis production.''

==Legend==

''The tenth century was a turbulent time for the Order of Hermes. Punctuated in the middle by the Corruption of Tytalus, anarchy and paranoia became rife and Wizard’s War commonplace. It was into this environment that Hérisson’s pacifistic writings began to circulate. This Bjornaer follower finished his apprenticeship in 881 in the Normandy Tribunal, and he became an unremarkable magus interested in Herbam magics and magical agriculture. At this time the prevailing attitude among House Bjornaer was that mankind was killing Magic. In the heartland of Mythic Europe, campaigns of deforestation were ordered by monarchs to make room for the rapidly expanding population. House Bjornaer believed it was their sacred duty, as given them by their Founder, to protect the wildernesses and to keep them in their pristine, magical state. They feared the widescale loss of vis sources and Magic auras, and some Bjornaer magi even mooted a''
''cull of the human population. Hérisson, a member of Clan Arelie, was at odds with his Primus and many of his House, for he believed that Magic was infinite rather than limited, and he set out to prove it. He was largely ignored by the Order, and he devoted himself to pursuing original research into the nature of vis in a backwater region of his tribunal. On several occasions he tried to communicate his findings to other members of the Order, but it was not the right political climate for peaceful research, and his House members did not want to know. As the tension rose within the Order towards the first millennium, Hérisson tried to work towards peace. He offered copies of his research to House Bonisagus and explained his theories to convocations of House Diedne. Although some interest was roused over his claim to be able to grow vis, few believed him and other concerns soon got in the way as the Order prepared for war. His House had grown sick of his haranguing and were suspicious of his dealings with other Houses, and eventually Gypaetus of Bjornaer accused him of betraying cultic secrets to magi hostile to the Order, and declared Wizard’s War. Hérisson was hopelessly outmatched; although over a hundred years old, his life had been dedicated to Magic Theory and original research, whereas Gypaetus was a veteran hunter of Marched magi. Hérisson was slain not two days beyond the full moon. A scant few years after his death the Schism War commenced, and House Bjornaer retreated into its domus magna and did not emerge for fifteen years. During their isolation, the leader of Clan Arelie had been studying Hérisson’s political writings, and had discussed their implications with her clanmates. Other members of the House professed an interest in the peaceable philosophyand, by the time the House emerged in 1019, there was a burgeoning political movement within House Bjornaer called the Concordiarii, and half of the House’s clans had officially declared a''
''desire to attempt to live in harmony with mundane populations rather than resent and restrict their growth. The legend of Hérisson’s Garden has entered into the mythology of the Order; supposedly this is where the magus conducted his research into the production of vis. His most devoted followers have searched for the garden ever since his death, but it has never been found. Some claim he referred to the garden as a metaphor, a mental image invoking the primal peace of Eden. Others insist it is a real place, although they have yet to prove such an assertion.''

===a Descendant of Myanar?===

''Some of the stories around Hérisson suggest that he possessed Mystery''
''Virtues typical of those found in House Merinita, specifically the Nature Mysteries. Certainly, those magi who find his garden will encounter sentient plants, such as those created by the Awakening Nature Mystery Virtue (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 104). It may be that Hérisson was descended from one of the followers of Myanar who fled House Merinita for House Bjornaer when Quendalon became Primus. Magi who discover this, and are aware of the Nature Mysteries, might wonder whether he actually escaped death entirely through the Guardian of Nature Mystery, whereby a magus transforms himself into a genius loci. His death at the hands of Gypaetus could have been a carefully constructed deceit to absent the magus from the Order and allow him to dwell in peace. If this hypothesis''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==What The Order Remembers of Hérisson==

''See the Introduction for details on revealing the legend of Hérisson. Bjornaer followers may remember more about Hérisson and receive a +1 bonus to their roll; members of Clan Arelie, who are the memory of their House (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, House Bjornaer) receive a +3 bonus instead.''

===Known By All===

''•	 Hérisson of Bjornaer was a magus in the ninth and tenth centuries •	 Hérisson built a magical Garden overflowing with vis, the location of which has never been found.''

===Widely Known===

''•	 Hérisson was the founder (in name at least) of the Harmonist movement within House Bjornaer. •	 Hérisson’s heartbeast was a hedgehog. •	 Hérisson claimed to be able''
''to grow practically unlimited amounts of vis, but he was never taken seriously in these claims. •	 Hérisson was killed in a Wizard’s War by a member of his own house.''

===Uncommon Knowledge===

''•	 Hérisson was slain by Gypaetus of Bjornaer •	 Hérisson argued with his House and his Primus, and was accused of revealing House secrets to House Diedne.''

===Lost Secrets===

''•	 Hérisson may have been a descendant of Myanar. •	 Some believe his spirit still lives in his garden. •	 Hérisson sent a copy of some of his research to the Great Library at Durenmar.''

|}
''is true, then he may haunt the location of his garden as its guardian spirit. Furthermore, if Hérisson was a member of an esoteric Mystery Cult within House Bjornaer, then his descendants may well continue that tradition in secret.''

===The Sept of Hérisson===

''Hérisson’s Hermetic descendants of Clan Arelie still name their sept after their notable founder, despite having a more recent common ancestor. The eldest member and Mystagogue of the sept is Tasso Agricola, a master of Terram magic. His filia Erica is a prominent figure in Hermetic politics, preaching the necessity of co-existence with mundanes and the church. The other members of the sept are equally committed to the Harmonist stance.''

==Legacy==

''Hérisson’s passion was for a process he called “Hermetic Viresculture”: literally, the cultivation of vis. At the time of his death he had completed a Major Breakthrough in Hermetic theory, allowing him to create vis through growing it. This discovery was supplemented by a Minor Breakthrough allowing him to create Lesser Enchantment Vis (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 119) through Viresculture. He failed to achieve his ultimate goal, which was to generalize his''
''technique to cover any type of vis. As it stands, Hérisson’s technique can only imbue generative properties to pawns of vis that have a shape which naturally grows, such as a living plant, animal, or even a fire. However, anyone who comprehends Hérisson’s discovery can develop new cultivars (see later) that could incorporate other types of vis into the process. When he died, Hérisson was working on including vis resident in gemstones and metals which grow beneath the earth.''

==Viresculture==

''Vis is normally a static thing, such as that found in the corpses of magical creatures or in the parts of a plant. Even if the seed of a plant is the receptacle of its vis, that seed is often sterile and dead. Hérisson’s discovery was a way to give the vis resident in a magical creature or plant the property of self-generation. The nomenclature of his laboratory notes makes a distinction between Grana (singular Granum), which is ordinary, static vis; and Stirpes (singular Stirps), which is self-replicating vis. The latter is a magical creature or plant that contains vis having all the properties of ordinary vis, but if its magical power is not consumed in spellcasting or laboratory activity, it can instead be used to generate more vis. Each Stirps created by Hérisson’s theory is the founder of a Cultivar of vis, all members of which share the same properties. The practice of Hermetic Viresculture first requires Vitaliza''
''tion of a living source of vis to create the Stirps in the first place, and then Invigoration to allow the Stirps to produce offspring that themselves contain vis. Vitalization has another use: while it costs Vim vis to perform, it mobilizes the vis inherent in a magical creature or plant and allows it to be transferred out without killing the donor.''

==The Stirps==

''The foundation of any vis-growing enterprise using Hermetic Viresculture is the Stirps. This is the first individual that both contains usable vis and is capable of reproduction, and is the founder of a given cultivar. The Stirps is usually a living being, but Hérisson successfully created a Stirps from a tiny fire elemental, since fire is an element that naturally spreads. The Story portion of this chapter culminates in the characters discovering several Stirpes created by Hérisson, but anyone who develops a score in Hermetic Viresculture can make her own.''

===Vitalizing Vis===

''Creating a Stirps is a laboratory activity called Vitalization, which is akin to creating an invested device. Essential to the enterprise is the raw material, which must have a Magic Might of 0 or more, and have the inherent capacity for self-replication. Dead animals or parts of plants cannot form the basis of a cultivar. The offspring produced by these ‘raw materials’ need not themselves be magical: the youngsters born to an Animal of Virtue are often not Animals of Virtue themselves, and most seeds of magical plants grow up into normal plants of their kind. The target Level for Vitalization is equal to the Magic Might of the base creature, plant, or object. The magus accumulates in a season a number of points''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==New Supernatural Ability: Hermetic Viresculture==

''The character can produce varieties of self-reproducing vis, and cultivate vis as a form of magical agriculture. Note that, because it fully incorporates Hermetic magic, Hermetic Viresculture can be taught to other''
''magi without needing to subtract one’s Art Scores from the Source Quality (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 29). Only those opened to the Hermetic Arts can make use of this Ability since it relies on Hermetic magic.''

|}
''towards the successful completion of the Stirps equal to the amount by which his Vitalization Total exceeds the Level. This is a Creo Vim Lab Total that uses Hermetic Viresculture Ability instead of Magic Theory. Once a number of points equal to the Level of Effect have been accumulated, the Stirps is complete. Vitalization costs one pawns of Vim vis per ten points of the Level of Effect (or fraction thereof); this vis is usually fed to an animal or transferred into the water used to grow it.''

===Vitalization Total: Intelligence + Creo + Vim + Hermetic Viresculture + Aura Modifier===


===Level of Effect: Magic Might===

''A Vitalized Stirps has the potential to reliably produce offspring that contain vis, but must first be Invigorated (see later). Before it is Invigorated, the offspring of a Stirps are no different from how they would be if the parent had not been Vitalized. Many things with a Magic Might are immortal, but if a Stirps is not, before it dies of old age, an uninvigorated Stirps will produce one offspring that is also an uninvigorated Stirps. Vitalization has another immediate consequence; the vis that is normally available in the being’s body once it is dead can be transferred (ArM5, page 94) into another receptacle without harm, although it ceases to be a Stirps. For example, a magus could Vitalize a Raven of Virtue (Realms of Power: Magic, page 62); and at the cost of a pawn of Vim vis, could extract the two pawns of Intellego it contains without harm. If the Raven was killed later, its corpse would contain no vis.''

===Stirpes From Lesser Enchantment Vis===

''Hérisson’s second breakthrough was to integrate inherently magical types of''
''vis into his virescultural theory. Lesser Enchantment Vis (see Insert) that is found in a living form capable of selfreproduction can be made into a Stirps, even if it does not have a Magic Might. The Lesser Enchantment Vis is Vitalized as described earlier, except that instead of Magic Might, use the level of the effect possessed by the vis. If the vis is transferred out of a Stirps of this type its magical power is lost. Hermetic Viresculture is currently incapable of creating Lesser Enchantment Vis, it is only capable of allowing it to self-propagate; thus it is necessary for a magus to first find an example of this rare type of vis. Hérisson was working on a breakthrough to create Lesser Enchantment Vis when he died, and had assembled a large collection of SpellLike Vis and Enriched Things of Virtue (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 124) as part of his research.''

===Invigorating a Stirps===

''Before the Stirps can be used to grow vis, it must be Invigorated. This infuses it with the ability to produce many copies of itself. Invigoration requires a single season of laboratory work, during which time the magus generates an Invigoration Total. The Form used in the Invigoration Total must match that of the Might of the Stirps, or the Form of the Lesser Enchantment, but bears a Vim requisite. For every ten points (or fraction) of the Invigoration Total, the Stirps has one breeding season that will yield vis. Each litter or crop produced from a Stirps contains a number of pawns of vis equal to one fifth (or fraction) of its Magic Might or Level of Effect (for Lesser Enchantment vis). This vis is of the same Form as that within its parent.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==New Cultivars==

''Hérisson by no means exhausted the possibilities for Stirpes in his research. For example, some gemstones of Mythic Europe come in both male and female forms, and given sufficient time they will reproduce. A Stone of Virtue might therefore serve as suitable raw material for a Stirps. Elementals have the unusual property of being an animated substance composed''
''of vis, and form suitable raw material for a Stirps for the elemental Forms. It may be possible for Magic Humans (Realms of Power: Magic, page 83) to found a cultivar, but the slow reproductive cycle makes it a non-starter without magical intervention. Furthermore, they would probably object to being used as breeding stock, and for their children to form a magus’s vis supply.''

==Lesser Enchantment Vis and Spell-Like Vis==

''These two types of vis were first introduced in Realms of Power: Magic (pages 119–122). Vis of either type can be used in all the usual ways that vis can usually be used, but they also have a magical power. Lesser Enchantment Vis emulates a Lesser Enchantment, usually of level 30 or less. As long as the vis is not used in a magical''
''activity, a character can benefit from the effects of the enchantment. SpellLike Vis has a single use only, mimicking the effects of a spell of up to 60th level; this spell can be a ritual, and if so it requires no additional expenditure of vis or time. Once the spell is triggered, its effects take place and the vis itself is expended.''

|}

===Invigoration Total: Intelligence + Creo + Form (Vim Requisite) + Hermetic Viresculture + Aura Modifier===


===Breeding Seasons: Invigoration Total / 10, Rounded Up===


===Number of Pawns of Vis Produced: (magic Might/5) Or (Level of Effect/5), Rounded Up===

''The Stirps produces a normal number of offspring of its kind, and the pawns of vis are distributed evenly among offspring. Each pawn of vis produced in this manner has a one in ten chance of being an uninvigorated Stirps. If the cultivar is of a kind that usually reproduces once and then dies (like many plants), an additional one of its offspring is the Invigorated Stirps reborn. Once it has had its allotted number of breeding seasons, the Stirps is no longer Invigorated, but can be re-Invigorated with another season of laboratory work.''
''Exempli Gratia: A Rooster of Virtue with a Magic Might of 10 is made into a Stirps. It produces hundreds of eggs with a flock of chickens every year, but only two of them in any given year are vis. Each egg containing vis has a one in ten chance of being an uninvigorated Stirps Exempli Gratia: A stalk of wheat is Lesser Enchantment Vis containing a 25th level effect. As a Stirps, each year it produces up to 20 grains of wheat, and five of them contain a pawn of vis each. Each of these pawns has a one in ten chance of being an uninvigorated Stirps. One additional seed is always a Stirps which is the Invigorated wheat reborn. Exempli Gratia: A magical horse with a Magic Might of 15 becomes a Stirps. Every two years she can produce a foal containing three pawns of vis. If any of these pawns of vis are Stirpes (each has a one in ten chance) then the mare has multiple births that year, with each Stirps being in a different foal.''
''Magic can be used to cause the animal or plant to reproduce out of season; however this does not increase the''
''amount of vis produced, just the speed at which it can be obtained. At maximum a Stirps can reproduce once per season, and can have two breeding seasons per year. Without magical help it has just one. The vis can be transferred (ArM5, page 94) from the body of a living animal or plant without harming it, regardless of the being’s other powers. However, this unmakes a Stirps, and destroys the power of any Lesser Enchantment Vis.''

==Growing and Harvesting Vis==

''Once a magus has an Invigorated Stirps, he can harvest pawns of vis from it every time it breeds; the fruit of an Invigorated Stirps every breeding season is a mixture of normal vis and Stirpes. All Stirpes born to a Stirps are naturally Vitalized but uninvigorated. If the parent was Lesser Enchantment Vis, then so are any Stirps offspring. A pawn of Stirps vis can be distinguished from normal vis through an Intellego Vim spell that is powerful enough to determine the Art of a pawn of vis; Stirpes appear as particularly intense examples of their kind.''

===Caring for Vis===

''The Invigorated Stirps must be cared for like a normal example of its kind until it reaches its usual reproductive season. It is essential that the Invigorated Stirps is kept in a magical Aura: either rooted in one (if a plant) or housed in one (if an animal). An Invigorated animal develops a mighty appetite even if it is normally immune to hunger, and that food must be produced in a magical Aura as well. Furthermore, an animal Stirps requires a mate of the same species that has been reared on the same food, although the mate can be a wholly mundane animal otherwise.''
''Raising plants or animals through Hermetic Viresculture requires the attention of a magus with that Ability for its breeding season (generally the spring for animals and the autumn for plants), although the magus can also perform a normal seasonal activity during this time since he can generally oversee a team of agricultural laborers and/or stockmen to perform the majority of the tasks. A magus can only oversee the growth of a number of Stirpes (of any cultivar) equal to his Hermetic Viresculture Score. Stirpes in excess of this number fail to produce viable young because the magus’s attention is stretched too thinly. A magus who neglects his magical crops will suffer decreased yields: for every month that a magus does not spend at least one day overseeing his crops or herds and making small adjust''
''ments to their management, the final yield of vis for that season is reduced by one pawn. Input from farmers and stockmen can be represented through Labor Points (see Insert).''
''It costs 12 Labor Points to care for each Stirps and its associated plants or animals. Thus a crop that contains four Stirpes requires 48 Labor Points over the course of the year, generated from an appropriate Profession Ability such as Agricultural Laborer or Stockman. If less labor than this is available, reduce the overall yield by one pawn for every six Labor Points (or fraction) that are lacking.''

===Maximum Number of Stirpes===


===Fertile in a Generation: Hermetic Viresculture===


===Proportion of Yield That Is a Stirps: One Tenth (Minimum One Pawn)===


===Labor Points Required: 12 Per Stirps===


===Reduced Yield for Insufficient Help: –1 Per 6 Labor Points (Or Fraction) Lacking===


===Reduced Yield for Inattention: –1 Pawn Per Neglected Month Or Fraction===


===Weakening an Aura Through Hermetic Viresculture===

''Harvesting vis from a magical aura can potentially reduce the strength of that aura (Realms of Power: Magic, page''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Labor Points==

''Labor Points are a means by which the day-to-day work of a craftsman, professional, or laborer can be measured. The system was first introduced in City & Guild (pages 38–40). In the seasons in which a character is not studying — that is, the seasons that he earns Exposure experience points — he accumulates a number of Labor Points equal to three times his Communication + Profession Ability, or his Dexterity +''
''Craft Ability. An individual must accumulate 36 Labor Points in a year to maintain his business or grow his crops. Wealthy and Poor characters accumulate Labor Points at different rates (see City & Guild for more information). Labor Points may be accumulated from several individuals under the guidance of a foreman, who can coordinate a number of workers equal to his Leadership Score.''

==Example of Hermetic Viresculture==

''Elaine Thymel comes across a number of Roosters of Virtue, each with a Magic Might 10 (aligned to Animal), and manages to bring two of them back to her laboratory. Her Vitalization Total is 41; she can convert both roosters into Stirpes in a season (sing the rules for Multiple Laboratory Activities, ArM5, 102), and this costs her a total of two pawns of Vim vis. She spends another season Invigorating the two roosters, sharing her Animal (Vim) Invigoration Total of 43 between them; each Rooster will have three breeding seasons (since she has an Invigoration Total of 22 for each rooster). In the first breeding season, each Rooster fathers two eggs that contain a pawn of Creo vis a piece. In the first year Elaine nets four pawns of vis. Elaine has two servants dedicated to caring for her precious fowl during the year. One of these servants has a Leadership of 1, so he can oversee the''
''other. They each have a Communication + Profession: Poultry Farmer of 5, so each accumulates 15 Labor Points per season. This means that between them they must apply two seasons to care for the chickens to accumulate the 24 Labor Points needed. As luck would have it, one of the pawns in the first year turned out to a Stirps, and Elaine spends one season Invigorating the chick. In the second year Elaine now has three Roosters; one with five breeding seasons, and two with two seasons left. She expects to gain 6 pawns of Creo vis this year, except that she only has 30 Labor Points and needs 36, so she only gains 5 pawns. Nevertheless, for these two years she has spent three seasons and two pawns of Vim vis, and has gained nine pawns of Creo vis in return. In the following year, for no additional input, she expects another five pawns of Creo vis, and perhaps six if she can find another poultry farmer.''

|}
''10), and Hermetic Viresculture is no different. If you are using the rules for Aura Variation, then subtract one fifth (rounded up) of the total number of pawns produced by Hermetic Viresculture in that aura from the Yearly Aura Modifier.''

===Yearly Aura Modifier for Virescul===


===Ture: – (Total Pawns / 5)===


==Adventure: In Search of Eden==

''Hérisson conducted most of his research into Hermetic Viresculture in a fabulous garden-laboratory. Once the characters discover the potential of his theories to produce limitless vis, they will be driven to discover the location''
''of this garden, which contains the fruits of his labor. Here they can reconstruct his theory through a series of Insights, a much quicker and safer manner in which to conduct Original Research. Hérisson’s garden in itself is a fabulous resource even without the secrets it contains; a source of vis, wonders, study, and a superlative laboratory.''

==Précis==

''The adventure presented here has the following structure:''
''•	 Foreshadowing of magical plants in the area of the covenant •	 Discovery of a copy of Hérisson’s will at a vis source. The characters investigate Hérisson’s descendants and those of his slayer to track down the location of his Garden. They are dogged by a mysterious assailant intent on learning what they know of Hérisson.''
''•	 The clues lead to the covenant of Caerfloron, where their assailant reveals himself finally. The residents of Caerfloron show the characters into the Garden. •	 The Garden has been in turmoil since the death of Hérisson; the characters must end the feud between three tribes of magical plants before the Garden’s bounty can be reaped. •	 The Garden contains sufficient insight to allow the reconstruction of Hermetic Viresculture.''

==Foreshadowing==

''Prior to beginning the search for Hérisson’s garden and the secret of Hermetic Viresculture, the storyguide should set the scene by having the characters come across a few magical plants, in the form of occasional pawns of vis (perhaps Spell-Like Vis or Lesser Enchantment Vis). Some of these might be incidental to stories, others might be the focus of them; some example stories are given in this section. All these stories should occur within the same region, as they are all escapees from Hérisson’s research before he established his garden. These stories should be mixed in with other stories completely unrelated to magical plant life; but when the characters first hear of Hérisson’s research, they should be able to think back and realize that they have been encountering clues all along. Hérisson’s sigil was spines and thorns, and vis that is a product of his magic should bear such features; he was fond of working with brambles, thistles, teasels, and the like, and his magical versions of these plants are even more spiky than normal.''

===a Wreath of Pale Flowers===

''The daughter of an important noble has fallen ill, and the best physicians in the area have failed to even diagnose the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seeds: Hermetic Viresculture==

''Cultivating one’s own vis is a source of stories in its own right.''

===a Dangerous Tithe===

''The church is entitled to a tenth of whatever God gives increase, in order to support the clergy and perform charitable works, and in theory this includes vis. If the local priest becomes aware that the covenant is engaged in agricultural pursuits — and why wouldn’t he, since it is so labor-intensive? — he will demand his due. The priest employs a reeve to ensure that the characters do not try to cheat him by skimming off the choicest grains first — after all, they are known to be unworthy of trust. This puts the PCs in an awkward position: not only are they''
''being asked to give up their vis; that vis itself has magical properties that they may not want anyone (let alone the church) to get their hands upon.''

===Like Nothing I’ve Ever Tasted===

''A peasant steals food from a field cultivating Lesser Enchantment Vis, or poaches livestock containing the same. Upon consuming the food, the culprit benefits (perhaps permanently) from whatever effect the vis produced, at the cost of suffering Warping from the continued mystical effect. The PCs need to track down the thief, before he tells others of the remarkable food and they all come looking to eat the valuable Stirpes.''

|}
''illness. The player characters may hear of the girl’s plight and be moved to help; or else if they are famed as scholars or healers, may be approached directly. The only comfort she gains is from the fragrance of a beautiful rose with gray and pink petals, apparently unique to her gardens, and her servants bring a blossom in fresh every day. The ‘Basilisk Rose’ was one of Hérisson’s escaped creations. One of the few destructive cultivars he created, the roots of the rose are poisoning the girl’s personal water supply causing her illness. However, since the blossoms alleviate the symptoms of the poison, uprooting the plant will assuredly kill her. Once the characters discover that the Basilisk Rose contains Perdo vis, they may well take a keen interest in it. A further twist is that the girl’s father is the cause of his daughter’s illness; he planted the rose himself in a local town a few years ago to rid himself of some troublesome opponents by causing a ‘plague’. Once the plant had done its job he had it felled; but was unaware that one seed had managed to make its way into his daughter’s garden. So far, no-one has linked the mysterious plague to the Basilisk Rose. The character’s must contend with the noble’s back-fired attempt to poison his enemies; plus there is the issue of the mysterious stranger who gave him the plant in the first place. Was it a demon wanting to tempt the noble to murder? Was it a magus, who had his own rivalry with the townsfolk? Or was it a faerie intending to gain vitality from being the girl’s gallant rescuer?''

===a Gruit Local Custom===

''Every year there is a contest between two households in a local village for the maker of the best beer. This village should be one that the character’s covenant has regular commerce with, perhaps as a source of income. The Marianne Sisters brew a delicately-fla''
''vored ale best loved by the womenfolk. Lorris Taverner makes a heavy beer with acorns and bog-myrtle that is the favorite of the men. The two drinks are famed throughout the region, but the rivalry between the two brewers raises strong passions. Both keep their recipes a secret, which will intrigue the characters when they realize that both beers have a faint taint of magic. The elder of the Marianne sisters has the Touched by Magic Virtue (City & Guild, page 71) and uses hyssop grown in a Magic aura as gruit (herbs used to give ale flavor). Lorris has no innate magical ability, but he has a magical oak tree — one of Hérisson’s creations. The acorns that flavor his beer contain at least one pawn of Imaginem vis (more in a good year), and can be distinguished from the others by the spines on the acorn’s cup. The characters are asked to judge the contest between the ale and the beer, and the whole village waits with bated breath for their verdict. This is more than some local tradition; it is a matter of pride for the village, and affects their productivity. If the characters decide in favor of the ale, they will earn the hostility of the menfolk, while improving the output of the cottage industries run by the women. If Lorris’s beer is judged the better, raw production of crops will receive a small boost for that year, but the women will be sullen and shrewish, and liable to bad-mouth the characters. Interfering with either ale-making process gains the enmity of the whole village.''

==Hérisson’s Treasure==

''The adventure opens proper with the characters discovering a chest buried in a field. The field itself is a vis source, and acquiring it might be the outcome of another story, or it may be a vis source that the covenant has had for some time and never noticed its unusual nature. The vis source takes the form of a group of plants. They are unusual in that''
''these plants are not native to the area, and appear to have been planted in neat rows. If the saga is set in Northern Europe, then these could be rice plants or orange trees. In Southern Europe it might instead be pot-herbs (root vegetables) such as carrots or turnips. These plants usually produce just one offspring each that contains vis, which without the intervention of the characters, gives rise to the next generation. However, occasionally one of the plants will produce two offspring, and one can be taken as vis while the other is used to grow another plant. Magical investigation reveals a qualitative difference between these two pawns of vis (one glows more intensely under Sense the Nature of Vis, for example), and only the more intense one can be used to grow more plants. There are sixteen plants in the grove, and in a typical year they might produce two surplus pawns; a moderate but steady output. The vis source has no reason why it might be here except for a weak Magic aura — no ancient ruins, or local legends; nothing to suggest that this is a place of mythic import where vis normally grows. Investigating further the characters turn up tiny copper statues of urchins (hedgehogs) stamped with Hermetic sigils. Also buried in the field is a chest (perhaps uncovered if the field is plowed, or investigated with magic); the chest contains a will penned by Hérisson of Bjornaer bequeathing the results of his research to Gypaetus of Bjornaer “in the hope that the secret of Hermetic creation of vis will compensate him for the inconvenience of having to slay its discoverer”. The research notes themselves are not present. An expert on Hermetic history (such as a Redcap, or the guardian of the tribunal’s records) can reveal that the vis source was once claimed by Hérisson of Bjornaer, and a copper urchin was his voting sigil. The same source will reveal varying amounts of his story, including his claims that he could produce vis, and the nature of his death.''
''With their interest (hopefully) piqued with the prospect of limitless vis, the characters have two routes of investigation — Hérisson’s Hermetic descendants, and those of his slayer.''

===Hérisson’s Descendants===

''Tasso Agricola is the eldest member of the Sept of Hérisson, and is three generations removed from his ancestor. Tasso is a friendly magus who is often found working in the fields around his covenant. He’ll be happy to discuss his illustrious ancestor, and recount the rest of his legend as well as his legacy to House Bjornaer in the form of the Harmonist movement. He is aware of Hérisson’s research, and has a few volumes of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Tasso Agricola Areleins of House Bjornaer==

''Age: 64 (46) Personality Traits: Badger +4, Cheerful +2, Just +1, Suspicious –1''
''Tasso’s black hair has a white stripe rising from each temple, and it is not difficult to see the badger that he holds within. He usually wears a simple peasant smock, and a woven hat if he is working in the fields. He has the Gentle Gift and a peasant’s accent. He lives in a covenant in a rural area which has little interaction in the politics of the Order, although this covenant need not be close to''
''the characters’ covenant for the purpose of this story. He shares this covenant with one other member of his sept, and his filia Erica (who has a mole heartbeast) is at nearby covenant. Tasso is dedicated to farming magics and practices which will increase crop yields, thus saving more forests from being cleared to make way for fields. Manual toil is an unusual occupation for a magus, but Tasso has the Study Bonus Virtue, and receives tangible benefit from his labors with soil and crops.''

|}

==Variña, an Owl of Virtue==

''Magic Might: 35 (Auram) Season: Summer Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +3, Pre –1, Com –2, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +5, Qik 0 Size: +2 Confidence: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Ways of the Mountain; Improved Characteristics, Large, Puissant Stealth; Proud Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Winter’s Queen), Gigantic x2; Improved Attack, Improved Defense, Improved Initiative, Improved Powers, Improved Soak x3, Minor Virtue (Great Dexterity) x2, Minor Virtue (Improved Characteristics), Minor Virtue (Tough) Mundane Qualities: Accomplished Flyer, Aggressive, Ambush Predator, Large Claws, Sharp Ears, Thick Feathers Personality Traits: Owl* +5, Vain* +4, Territorial +3 Combat:''
''Large Claws: Init +6*, Attack +21*, Defense +13*, Damage +9 *	 Includes Ways of the Mountain Virtue. Soak: +12 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Awareness 4 (prey), Athletics 5 (flying), Brawl 5 (claws), Hunt 4 (prey), Stealth 5+2 (from sky), Survival 3 (mountains) Powers: Winter’s Queen, 1–6 points, Init –Might cost, variable form: Variña can duplicate any spell involving snow, ice, or cold with a level less than or equal to 30. this costs her 1 Might point per magnitude of the spell. Focus Power (5 mastery points to increase maximum level) Vis: 7 pawns of Auram vis, in feathers Appearance: An immense white owl with black speckles and amazing''
''emerald-colored eyes.''
''Variña had a Heartbeast Ability of 7 when she entered Final Twilight, leaving her Inner Heartbeast with a Magic Might of 35. She can have up to 15 more points of Magical Qualities (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 36), which have been left for the storyguide to develop. It is exceptionally unlikely that Variña would consent to becoming a familiar, given her background in House Bjornaer. She need not be considered to be a monster that must be killed, but she must be bypassed to gain entrance into her tower. When she attacks, the owl will often do so from ambush; if she is not spotted and wins Initiative she gains a +3 bonus to her first Attack total. Furthermore, if she is first in the Initiative order even after her first attack, she can fly out of reach of melee weapons after making her attack. Should she wish to circle around and attack again, make new Initiative rolls for the combat.''
''INTERIOR VIEW Variña’s Tomb''

===Side View===

''his laboratory texts, although they are non-sequential and encoded. Tasso himself has never been able to make sense of them, but is willing to allow the characters to make a copy. His only stipulation is that the characters share with him anything they discover about his ancestor; since it is a matter of status within his House to record such information. The characters might instead approach Erica, Tasso’s filia. She is likely to refer them to Tasso; as the sept-leader he is the heir to their ancestor’s texts. Richard Strabo (see later) has cultured Tasso as a friend with gifts of agricultural spells and enchantments, and the guileless''
''Tasso has never questioned his friendship. It will not be long before Richard discovers the character’s interest in Hérisson.''

===Variña’s Tomb===

''Research will reveal that Gypaetus died in 1035, leaving just one filia, Variña. She built a sanctum high in the Pyrenees (or another suitable mountain range), a lone tower perched precariously on a mountainside. Variña trained no apprentice herself, and Gypaetus’s line was extirpated when she entered Final Twilight. If the characters can discover''
''the location of Variña’s tower they might decide to investigate it to see if it contains any of Hérisson’s notes. Locating Variña’s tower could be a story in its own right, or it else the Redcaps could simply have records of it. The tower itself is placed in a complex series of regiones, cunningly built to exploit the layers of reality and place each story of the tower in a different regio layer. The tower is haunted by Variña herself, now a Snowy Owl of Virtue of substantial power, who has nested on the tower roof. The first layer of the regio (Magic aura 1) encompasses the ground floor of the simple tower, following its exte''
''rior wall exactly. The tower is deserted, containing only trash. The second layer of the regio (Magic aura 2) is only a few feet across, extending from floor to ceiling between one of the columns on the ground floor and the tower’s exterior wall. Without finding this tiny regio, there is no way into the third layer of the regio (Magic aura 3) which follows the perimeter of the tower walls, both the lower and upper story. This layer has Variña’s sepulcher, an immense stone edifice bearing an effigy of her body crafted from enchanted ice and covered by a perpetual illusion of the beautiful woman she was in life. The sepulcher may contain a num''
''ber of magical items relating to air magics, which were her specialty. The fourth layer (Magic aura 4) is another cylindrical micro-regio, this time in an innocuous location on the upper story. The final layer (Magic Aura 5) consists of just the upper story of the tower, and contains her laboratory and library. Unfortunately, the Great Beast that was once Variña has used parchment from the tower to line her nest, and many of Variña’s texts have been destroyed. The remaining library can be as sparse or rich as the storyguide desires, but should be concentrated in the Art of Auram. That which can be rescued from''
''the nest must be sorted and restored, but what remains of Hérisson’s notes contain no information that can benefit research into Viresculture. However, the notes do refer to Hérisson’s sanctum; a fabulous garden that he compares to Paradise. According to the diary entries, the garden is to serve as his new laboratory once he has arranged for the transport of all his laboratory equipment.''

===The Garden’s Location===

''The notes found in Variña’s tower are quite explicit about the location of''

==Richard Strabo of House Bonisagus==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre –1, Com –1, Str –1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 58 (40) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 4 (18) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Flexible Formulaic Magic; Adept Laboratory Student, Affinity with Herbam, Social Contacts, Gild Trained, Inventive Genius, Minor Magical Focus (vines), Puissant Magic Theory*, Skilled Parens; Dark Secret, Driven, Waster of Vis; Reclusive Personality Traits: Ambitious +5, Ruthless +3, Reclusive +2 Reputations: House Acclaim 2 (Hermetic) Combat: Evasion: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Artes Liberales 3 (rhetoric), Concentration 2 (Herbam), Faerie Lore 2 (wood faeries), Finesse 4 (Herbam), German 5 (Swabian), Guile 2 (disguise), Latin 5 (Hermetic), Living Language 4 (appropriate dialect), Magic Lore 2 (magical plants), Magic Theory 8+2 (original research), Medicine 5 (theriacs), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (Herbam specialists), Parma Magica 4 (Ignem), Penetration 3 (Herbam), Philosophiae 2 (exotic plants), Profession: Apothecary 4 (poisonous plants), Profession: Scribe 2 (summae), Stealth 2 (woodland), Teaching 2 (5) (Herbam) Arts: Cr 10, In 7, Mu 12, Pe 5, Re 8; An 5, Aq 5, Au 6, Co 12, He 14, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 5, Te 6, Vi 10 Twilight Scars: His arms look like twisted roots, fruit does not spoil in his presence, he becomes bald in the winter Sigil: Smell of damp earth Equipment: Talisman; a twisted and gnarled staff of ivy. It is decorated with leaves carved from six types of woods. Attunements: +3 affect living wood (wood), +3 Creo''
''Herbam (almond) The Nimble Vine, Cr(Re)He 35; Penetration 20, unlimited uses per day. Creates a strong, pliable vine which has the flexibility and strength of a human arm, but which is 8 inches in diameter and can be 500 paces long. It can act according to the wielder’s instructions, and can grip, retrieve, strangle, or even wield a weapon (using the wielder’s Finesse instead of any Ability required), although it cannot be controlled if the wielder cannot see the hand. It can extend as fast as a walking man. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +2 size, +1 requisite; +5 maintains concentration, +10 unlimited uses, +10 Penetration 20) The Thrusting Root, Cr(Re)He 28; Penetration 20, 6/day. Creates a thick spear-like battering ram which shoots from the staff to anyone within 15 paces. If it is used to hit a target it inflicts +10 damage, and impales the target if a Medium or more serious wound is caused. While the target is impaled he cannot move, but can attack the root. It can also''
''Hérisson’s garden, although this fact has been omitted in this story to give maximum flexibility to the storyguide. If you intend that the garden becomes a regular part of the saga — perhaps even the residence of one of its magi — then it should be located conveniently close to the character’s covenant. However, if you want it to be abandoned by the characters once they have got the most they can from it, then it can be located virtually anywhere in Mythic Europe. The minimum requirements for the setting are a relatively untamed wilderness in a wet temperate tribunal, al''
''though the garden can be reframed with little effort as a lush oasis in the midst of a sun-blasted landscape if your saga is set in one of the southern tribunals. An Intelligence + Area Lore or Order of Hermes Lore roll can tell the characters a little bit about the location, most specifically that the covenant of Caerfloron is very close to where they are going. The Ease Factor of this roll is dependent on the distance of the garden from the character’s covenant; a 9 is all that is required if it is in the same tribunal, but an 18 might be necessary if it is on the other side of Mythic Europe.''

===Richard Strabo of Bonisagus===

''Richard Strabo had some early successes as a researcher in House Bonisagus, and enjoyed the Acclaim he earned. The pressure of having to capitalize on that success to maintain his reputation has made him bitter and reclusive, especially seeing as he has failed to produce anything considered worthy by the House for over twenty years. He has been hinting to his colleagues that he has been working on a secret research project that will have a major impact on Hermetic magic, but every avenue he has pursued has resulted in a dead''

==Richard Strabo of House Bonisagus (cont’d)==

''be used to batter down doors and walls, forcing a Stress Check (City & Guild, page 77) (Base 1, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +1 size, +1 requisite; +5 maintains concentration, +3 6/day, +10 Penetration 20) Spells Known: Disguise of the New Visage, MuCo 10/+26 (Personal variant) Shape of the Creeping Ivy, MuCo(He) 35/+38* (like Stance of the Patient Tree, but ivy) Conjure the Sturdy Vine, CrHe 5/+39*T''
''The Giant’s Beanstalk, CrHe 15/+39*T; a variant of Conjure the Study Vine with two Size modifiers — the vine has a stalk as wide as a small tree, and reaches 40’ into the air. It is very easy to climb. The Chokeweed Incantation, CrHe 15/+39*T; creates a thread of ivy which winds its way up to the target’s throat and throttles them. Make a deprivation roll every 5 combat rounds due to lack of air. It requires a Strength roll of 12+ each round to break the grip of the ivy. (Base 1, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 force) Trap of the Entwining Vines, CrHe 15/+39*T''
''Wall of Thorns, CrHe 20/+29T''
''The Envenomed Thorns, CrHe 25/+29T; coats a wooden weapon with a venom that inflicts +10 damage (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun) Intuition of the Forest, InHe 10/+23 Piercing Shaft of Wood, Mu(Re)He 10/+26; Mastery 2, Multicast, Penetration Transformation of the Thorny Staff, MuHe 10/+30; Mastery 2, Fast-Cast, Multicast Coils of the Entangling Plants, ReHe 20/+24 Free the Crawling Vine, ReHe 20/+32*; like Free the Striding Tree, but R: Personal, D: Sun, and with only one Size modifier. This allows Strabo to move freely when he has converted to plant form using Shape of the Creeping Ivy. (Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 size) Lord of the Trees, ReHe 25/+27T''
''The Treacherous Spear, ReHe 25/+24 Free the Striding Tree, ReHe 30/+27T''
''* 	 Includes Minor Magical Focus T 	 Includes talisman attunement bonus Appearance: A middle-aged man with dark hair and a sun-weathered face. His eyes have a manic, obsessive''
''glint to them that many find disturbing. He usually wears a green cloak and a wide-brimmed hat, and is never without his staff. He took his second name from a famous gardening monk, and occasionally uses the alias ‘Walahfrid’ after that worthy’s first name.''
''Strabo is presented as a magus from the Rhine Tribunal, but can be substituted for any suitable character of the storyguide’s devising. He should not be a prominent member of the same tribunal as the characters, to prevent his hand being recognized too readily. Richard Caespuus from Durenmar (Guardians of the Forests, page 58) would fill the role admirably, although be aware that at the end of this story, the character in this role is likely to face a Wizard’s March. As presented here, Strabo should present a challenge to young magi, but storyguides may wish to make him older for more experienced troupes. His skills lie less in direct confrontation than in espionage (disguised as a plant) and harassment (both political and otherwise).''
''end. When he came across Hérisson’s notes in a forgotten archive of Durenmar’s library, he made the decision to find the rest of the research and pass it off as his own. Richard has staked his reputation on these stolen fragments, and is poised to become a victim of his own arrogance and boastfulness. This is not simple plagiarism, or building on the work of another, this is whole scale theft of another magus’s research, and a magus of House Bonisagus might never recover from the shame should his secret be discovered. He knows he needs to find Hérisson’s garden to find the rest of the Bjornaer magus’s research, but so far has missed the clue to visit the tomb of his slayer’s filia. Strabo maintains contact with several magi across Mythic Europe through correspondence, using a number of aliases. Most are experts in the Art of Herbam, and he hopes to gain ideas from such correspondence with his unsuspecting ‘friends’. Paranoid about the possibil''
''ity of discovery, Richard has cultured Tasso as a friend so that he should hear if anyone starts asking questions about Hérisson’s research. Now that has happened, and Strabo’s one chance to prove himself to his House is threatened. He is prepared to break the Code if it means his secret is secure; he is sufficiently mentally unhinged to be neither rational nor sensible about the steps he will take to preserve his secret. By the time the characters have returned from Variña’s tower, he has identified the magi and their home covenant. Guessing that they have discovered something, he will have them set upon on the way home by a group of local ruffians. He does not want the characters killed; he simply wants whatever they have obtained from the tower. The heavies are ordered to steal what they can then rendezvous at a distant tavern for their payment. To ensure that they will not speak, he poisons them all after retrieving what they have stolen. Of''
''course, if the characters do not set off immediately for Variña’s tower, Richard might have them attacked before they have actually discovered anything, and he might have to take an alternate route to discovering what they know. A possible tactic of Richard’s is to assail the covenant by a veritable invasion of swiftly-growing ivy while the magus himself takes the form of a single strand that goes questing through the possessions of the magi to uncover the location of Hérisson’s garden. Depending on how successful the characters are at foiling his plans, Richard might have to set up several schemes to try to find out what he needs. At the very least he can follow them when they leave, and once he realizes where they are heading (he is aware of the covenant of Caerfloron and its magi) he will rush on ahead to reach there first.''

===Caerfloron===

''Caerfloron is the covenant closest to the site of Hérisson’s Garden, and this is no coincidence. The covenant was founded by Caerfloron magus Ex Miscellanea, who still lives there with his four filii: Radix, Surculus, Folium, and Fructus. All five magi share a common passion for the Art of Herbam. The covenant of Caerfloron is a hortus conclusus (a walled garden) with each of the magi occupying a separate hut joined to the high walls. They have kept themselves isolated from the Order and its politics, preferring to simply live under its protection and use their right to secrecy to its fullest. They live in a Magic Aura of 3, and have a weak Aegis of the Hearth of level 20. When the characters arrive here they receive a hostile reception. Richard Strabo has beaten them here (although they are probably still unaware that he is their enemy), and he has poisoned the minds of Caerfloron’s magi towards the characters by claiming that they are''
''coming to execute a Wizard’s War. If Strabo hasn’t yet read Variña’s notes, he doesn’t know that the Garden is here, but simply uses Caerfloron to rid himself of magi who are close to revealing his secret. Caerfloron knows enough about the Order of Hermes and its traditions to be aware of Wizard’s War, but not enough to know that the proper formalities have not been followed (if Richard finds out about the character’s destination sufficiently far in advance then he will make a false declaration of Wizard’s War in the name of one of the characters, to add realism. He employs Disguise of the New Visage to appear to be a local Redcap). Consequently, the characters will arrive at Caerfloron to meet with utmost hostility, possibly even an unprovoked assault. Once again, Herbam magics will be the main order of the day; and the characters may think that these are the magi who have been attacking them all along. Caerfloron himself is nearly 150 years old, but he is close to Final Twilight and will not risk his most powerful spells. Nevertheless, the five magi have access to some powerful magic, and should pose a threat to the characters. Caerfloron’s tactics revolve around trapping then neutralizing their opponents, so hopefully Richard’s deception can be revealed without too much bloodshed. Since Caerfloron don’t know why they have been singled out, and the characters don’t know why Caerfloron has been so aggressive, there is an opportunity for parlay that both sides would be interested in. Strabo will do his utmost to flee once it is clear his plan has been foiled. He has clearly violated the Hermetic Oath by attempting to slay another magus, and has forfeited the protection of the Code. Once the misunderstanding has been cleared up, Caerfloron’s magi will agree to assist the characters in recompense for their hasty actions. They know exactly where the entrance to the regio containing Hérisson’s Garden is, and Caerfloron''
''has enchanted a gate that permits passage through the regio layer and into the Garden. The magi of Caerfloron are bound by a vow to never enter the Garden more than once, although they don’t say why (see Caerfloron’s Magical Tradition). Caerfloron and his filii have no objection to others using the Garden, on the condition that their apprentices are permitted to enter the regio at the beginning of their training. Caerfloron refuses to explain why this is necessary, but only after securing such a promise will the magi show the characters how to enter the regio.''

==Hérisson’s Garden==

''The regio layer in which Hérisson planted his garden has a Magic aura of 6, aligned to Herbam (the aura modifier counts double when using the Art of Herbam, and all creatures with a Might associated with Herbam spend one less Might point to activate powers; see Realms of Power: Magic, page 16). This vast area — almost two miles in diameter — is horticulturally concentric. The outly''
''ing parkland surrounds flowery meads, and within them the herb, flower, and vegetable gardens. Within the parkland is a wooded pleasaunce (pleasure garden). In the very center there is a stew (a fish-pond), which has four streams leading into and out of it like the spokes of a wheel. These streams form a circular moat that strays into several sections of the garden, and is crossed by several small stone bridges. Two of these bridges are Hermetic enchantments; one to keep the water moving, and the other to keep it clean. From a high vantage point these streams, along with various hedgerows, form the shape of a Hermetic sanctum mark. The divisions of the landscape are not immediately obvious, since the terrain is gently undulating, forming hillocks and dells throughout the regio. The weather here is similar to that in the mundane world, except that calm weather is intensified and violent weather is stilled, so there are more sunny days and fewer wet ones. Unsurprisingly, the garden is teaming with plant life, and has numerous examples of exotic plants collected by Hérisson during a lifetime’s research into the Art of Herbam, including several uninvigorated but immortal cultivars of Stirps. Many of these plants are magical, either as sources of vis or bearing other magical properties. Those that are a product of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Caerfloron’s Magical Tradition==

''Caerfloron and his filii are Homunculus Wizards (Realms of Power: Faerie, Chapter 5), who have a manikin made of a Mandrake of Virtue as the source of their magic. They visit the garden just once at the beginning of their career to acquire a mandrake and become a wizard. Their magical tradition grants them the Greater Immunity to Deprivation and Faerie Magic Virtues, and the Homunculus Wizard Flaw. These magi suffer no wounds''
''or loss of Fatigue from going without food, drink, or air; but they cannot regain Long Term Fatigue without rest and sustenance. Like plants they rely on the vegetative spirit activated by daylight for their bodies’ needs. They all share the same Disfigured Flaw, having a green tinge to their skin and hair. Despite having the Faerie Magic Virtue, they cannot be Initiated into the Inner Mysteries as they are not members of House Merinita.''

|}
''his magic — as Stirpes or enchantments — bear the spines and thorns of his casting sigil. There are no animals in the garden at all, which makes walking through the greenery in silence a little eerie.''

==The Three Tribes==

''When the characters reach Hérisson’s garden, they find it in a state of unrest. The strong magical aura granted''
''many of the plants warped Personality Flaws, and when they were Awakened through Hérisson’s Mystery Virtue, they showed these personalities in full. When Hérisson was alive he was able to keep the rivalries in check, but since his death the plants have polarized into three camps. The leader of each tribe is a magical plant which has the power to temporarily grant motion to its subjects (see The Leaders of the Three Tribes). Malus the Crab Apple rules the Curtilagium (‘kitchen garden’) tribe. This tribe is composed of all plants created to provide nutrition for man or beast, and also those that provide medicines. They are generally distrustful of humans, who they see as predators, and have a shaky alliance with the Venenarium. The Curtilagium tribe consists of trees such as plum, medlar, apricot, apple, and orange, and herbs such as leeks, carrot, vervain, rosemary, fennel, alexanders, and angelica.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Role of the Garden in Mythic Europe==

''Ever since his expulsion from Eden, man has created gardens in imitation of paradise (a word from Persian pairideza, meaning ‘walled garden’). Monasteries culture gardens to supply herbs for the infirmary, dyes and ink for the scriptorium, rushes and herbs for the refectory floor, as well as vegetables, pot-herbs, and fruit for the kitchen. The garden offers manual labor for those living under a monastic rule; indeed the Carthusians, sometimes called the ‘gardener monks’, each had a small garden attached to their cells, which they rarely left. The towns and''
''cities of Mythic Europe often enclose allotments of land that are used by the townsfolk to supplement their diet. Furthermore, ‘pleasaunces’, or pleasure-gardens, are common in some towns, which employ gardeners (hortulani) to provide townsfolk with a place to enjoy rest and quiet among the flowers and fruit trees. Pleasaunces are also popular among the nobility, who often culture ‘love gardens’, in which arbors — grassy mounds covered in sweet-smelling herbs — provide places for ladies to sit and enjoy the tamed wonders of the natural world.''

==Linum, a Flax Plant==

''Magic Might: 15 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +2, Str –3, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +3 Size: –2 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Magical Champion; Entrancement; Arcane Lore, Gossip, Voice of the Garden; Compassionate; Anchored to the Garden, Fragile Constitution, Motion Sickness, Noncombatant Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Rally the Wooden Troops), Ritual Power x 2 (Healing); Improved Might x 5; Limited Movement, Reduced Fatigue x 2, Reduced Soak Personality Traits: Caring +6, Peaceful +3, Flax* +2''
''Combat: Dodge: Init +3, Attack N/A, Defense +7, Damage N/A Soak: –1 Fatigue Levels: OK, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 1 (obsequious), Entrancement 4 (keeping peace), Leadership 1 (herbs), Mastery of Rally the Wooden Troops 3 (flowers), Penetration 4 (Entrancement) Powers: Rally the Wooden Troops, 2 points, Init –1, Herbam: see earlier; can only affect the Hortulus tribe. Healing, 2 points, Init –7, Corpus: The worst of the target’s wounds in''
''stantly improves by one level. The Might cost for this power comes from Flax’s Might Score, not Might pool. See Realms of Power: Magic, page 39 for more details. Ritual Power x2 Vis: 2 pawns of Herbam, in seeds Appearance: A mass of thin stems about four feet tall, with small linear leaves and bright blue, five-petaled flowers.''
''Linum is the leader of the Hortulus tribe and venerated for its compassion and wisdom. However, it is deeply rooted into the soil, and has only a limited capacity for movement unaided. It also detests being moved, and becomes quite nauseated and unable to use any of its powers.''

|}
''The Venenarium (‘poison garden’) tribe consists of those herbs created by God to punish man for original sin. Most are poisonous, such as yew, henbane, foxglove, hellebore, dodder, aconite, and a whole host of toadstools, but this tribe also includes the thistles, brambles, holly, and hawthorn. They are lead by the spitefully malicious Mandragora. The Hortulus (‘little garden’) tribe are initially the character’s only allies in the garden. These are all the plants that provide tools or raw materials for people’s needs, such as wood and fiber, or provide aesthetic pleasure. They have a servile attitude to mankind, and are likely to greet the characters with''
''obsequious enthusiasm. They are lead by Linum, a magical flax plant who has many of the flowers under its thumb. The trees of the Hortulus include oak, ash, hazel, and pine, and the herbs include rue, hemp, lily, loosestrife, buttercup, and mistletoe.''

===The Leaders of the Three Tribes===

''The tribes are populated by magical and mundane plants, although the latter can only partake in activities when permitted to do so by their leader’s power to animate them. Animated plants have''
''Cunning rather than Intelligence. The three leaders are intelligent but incapable of human speech, requiring Converse with Plant and Tree (InHe 25, ArM5 page 136) or similar to communicate with them. A spell such as Intuition of the Forest (InHe 10, ArM5 page 136) would allow the characters to get emotional impressions from the intelligent plants. Don’t forget that within the garden, the Penetration and Magic Resistance of these plants is increased by the Magic aura, including the effects of the alignment if applicable. Furthermore, because of the alignment all their powers cost one point of Might less. Their role in this story is as obstacles and/or allies''

==Mandragora, a Mandrake==

''Insert text here Magic Might: 10 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre –3, Com 0, Str –10, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik +6 Size: –6 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Magical Champion; Hex; Arcane Lore, Puissant Penetration, Voice of the Garden; Hatred; Anchored to the Garden, Infamous, Tainted with Evil, Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Deadly Scream), Greater Power (Rally the Wooden Troops), Greater Power (Unwholesome Lust); Improved Abilities x 2, Improved Powers; Limited Gestures, Reduced Powers Personality Traits: Spiteful* +6, Mandrake* +3, Reclusive +3 Reputation: Deadly 4 (Local) Combat: Dodge: Init +6, Attack N/A, Defense +10, Damage N/A Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5''
''(3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (dodging), Hex 4 (5) (illness), Leadership 3 (poisonous plants), Magic Lore 1 (5) (poisonous plants), Mastery of Rally the Wooden Troops 4 (toadstools), Penetration 4+2 (scream), Profession: Apothecary 4 (poisons) Powers: Deadly Scream, 3 points, Init +6, Corpus or Animal: The mandrake root’s scream is deadly to all who hear it (deafness is an effective defense). Unlike a Mandrake of Virtue, this Magical mandrake can use this power at any time. PeCo(An) 50 (Base 30, +3 Sound, +1 Animal Requisite): Greater Power (50 levels), Improved Powers (5 mastery points, +3 Initiative, –2 Might cost) Rally the Wooden Troops, 2 points, Init +2, Herbam: see earlier; can only affect the Venenarium tribe. Unwholesome Lust, 1 point, Init +4, Mentem: The target of this power becomes inflamed with lust for a target chosen by the plant at the time of activating the power. She can do nothing except pursue the object''
''of her unnatural attraction until the duration ends. CrMe 20 (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun): Greater Power (20 levels, –5 for Reduced Powers, –1 Might cost) Vis: 2 pawns of Corpus, in root. Appearance: The above-ground part of a mandrake plant looks like a cluster of oblong, tapered leaves growing close to the earth. The root is about six inches long, fleshy, and has five lobes. It vaguely resembles a human figure with head, arms, and legs. Wrinkles and lumps on the uppermost lobe suggest a human face. The mandrake’s flabby ‘arms’ have no fingers, and it is unable to grasp or manipulate objects with any skill.''
''Mandrake is the evil genius of the Venenarium tribe, and is consumed with hatred for all things breathing. It prefers to work behind the scenes through intermediates and patsies, and avoids revealing itself to be the source of the character’s trouble. Note that this is a more powerful, animate version of the Mandrake of Virtue found in Realms of Power: Magic.''
''rather than antagonists, but the storyguide can make them more of a challenge by making them Summer characters (providing 240 more experience points) and/or increasing their Magic Might by 5 to 10 points, with a similar increase in Magical Qualities.''

===The Battle of the Trees===

''It is not possible to explore Hérisson’s Garden properly without first settling the conflict between the three tribes of magical plants. The plants essential for recreating his research — both as sources of Insight and Laboratory Texts (see later) — belong to all three tribes, and the characters need help from all three leaders. The arrival of the characters in the garden stirs the''
''Curtilagium and Hortulus into direct conflict, with the Curtilagium resenting the presence of predatory humans in the garden, and the Hortulus keen to make friends with them. Both sides covertly observe the characters for a while, looking for evidence of their intentions. This observation will probably go unnoticed, although characters with Magic Sensitivity may spot the presence of creatures with a Magic Might among the general magic of the garden as a whole. Be careful not to present the tribes merely as monsters to be killed, although some of them may take that role. They may initially prove a nuisance, but magi can probably deal with them easily. Settling the internecine battle between the tribes is essential for the characters to exploit the Garden’s secrets and the leaders of the tribe are each guard the knowledge''
''of where to find a third of its lore. Finding the Mistletoe of Herbam Vis (see later) early helps the character get a feel for the plants and the tension between the tribes. It is natural for characters to feast on the unseasonal bounty of the garden, helping themselves to fruit as they wander its bounds. Furthermore, as the characters discover vis, the reaction of most magi is to gather it. This rouses the hostility of the Curtilagium. Should the characters set up camp and start a fire, they provoke an attack from Malus, who directs several hardwood trees into the camp to trample the fire and characters alike. During the night, Mandragora has assisted the Curtilagium by surrounding the campsite in a thick hedge of brambles and hawthorn (treat as a Wall of Thorns spell, ArM5 page 135). From then on,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Malus, a Crab Apple==

''Magic Might: 10 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +7, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: +3 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Magical Champion; Greater Immunity to Edged Weapons; Improved Characteristics, Tough, Voice of the Garden; Overconfident; Anchored to the Garden, Baneful Circumstances (fire), Clumsy, WeakWilled Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Creeping Chasm), Greater Power (Rally the Wooden Troops); Improved Damage, Improved Soak x 3 Personality Traits: Reckless +6, Crab Apple* +3, Paranoid +3, Brave –1 Combat: Branch: Init +9, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +12 Soak: +12''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Brawl 4 (branch), Intrigue 1 (woodland politics), Leadership 2 (trees), Mastery of Rally the Wooden Troops 4 (fruit trees) Powers: Rally the Wooden Troops, 2 points, Init –5, Herbam: Animates trees and plants in the immediate vicinity allowing them to walk. In the peculiar aura of Hérisson’s garden, they are also granted a Cunning score of 0. Up to 10 Groups of Herbam can be affected, which is equal to 10,000 herbs (Size –6), 100 bushes (Size 0), 10 small trees (Size +3), or one 25’ tall tree (Size +6). This power can be triggered multiple times in a single round, equal to the plant’s Mastery Ability. The Might cost must be paid each time. Malus can only af''
''fect the Curtilagium plants with this power. ReHe 35 (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +1 Size): Greater Power (35 levels, –2 Might cost, Multicast mastery power) Creeping Chasm, 4 points, Init –2, Terram: By thrusting its roots deep into the earth, Crab Apple can duplicate the effects of the spell of the same name. ReTe 35: Greater Power (35 levels, +3 Init) Vis: 2 pawns of Herbam, in apples Appearance: A small tree about 12’ tall, but very gnarled and spiny, with dark green foliage and almost black bark. Its bright red apples are slightly elongated.''
''The Crab Apple is the leader of the Curtilagium because of its extreme self-confidence in its immunity to axes and other edged weapons. However, it has a secret in that its powers fail it in the presence of fire, and it always avoids any sources of flame.''

|}
''sharp-eyed characters may notice toadstools lining the paths they make, and thronging in the grass whenever they stop for a rest. There is a distinct feeling of being watched, and the silence of the garden — since there are no birds or insects — becomes oppressive. On the second day in the garden, Linum sends a delegation to bring the characters to him. After resting, they notice a path of creeping buttercup, shining yellow against the green grass, which definitely was not present when they sat down. The yellow path winds its way through the garden to a flowery meadow where Linum is planted. Linum is clearly an animated plant, but magic is needed to actually understand it. If the characters are otherwise incapable of speaking to plants, Linum directs them to a Daisy of Intellego vis (see later). It wishes to welcome the characters to the garden, and apologizes for the actions of the Curtilagium. It explains their actions as being born of fear, and gives a brief description of the Curtilagium and its own tribe of the Hortulus. However, Linum does not mention the Venenarium tribe at all, as they are repugnant to it. Linum informs them that if Malus and the Curtilagium can be convinced of their peaceful intentions, then attacks such as those from the previous night will cease. Getting into a situation where they might speak to Malus is difficult, however. Linum can direct them to the orchard where it normally resides, but Mandragora has convinced it that the characters are here to destroy the garden, and the apple tree will not simply allow them to approach. Mandragora sends a crowd of animated Stinking Hellebore of Corpus Vis (see later) against the characters, and while they are paralyzed, Malus causes Honeysuckle of Mentem Vis (again, see later) to grow around them along with ivy, binding them fast (this operates like Trap of the Entwining Vines, ArM5, page 135). If this fails to stop the characters, Malus causes the under''
''growth to become almost impassable to protect itself from attacks. Its paranoia is almost all-consuming under the spiteful influence of Mandragora. All the while that Malus is under its influence, peace is impossible between the characters and the Curtilagium, and the garden cannot be safely used or studied since random attacks from both tribes will continue. Mandragora saves its most potent weapons for any direct attacks against itself, should the characters discover its involvement. It has a small amount of control over Dodder (see later), and uses this plant as an assassin against the most potent of its enemies. Its own Deadly Scream power is unveiled only once the Venenarium leader is in direct peril; while potent against opponents with no Magic Resistance, it can be easily countered. A particularly evil tactic is to slay a grog in secret then have Dodder animate the corpse so it can get close to its victims.''

==Contents of the Garden==

''Hérisson’s garden contains a number of magical plants, some of which are of his own manufacture and some of which he collected from far-flung places of the earth. Some examples of these are found in the following sections, and storyguides are encouraged to develop some more of their own devising. Furthermore, multiple examples of each plant may be present in far-flung parts of the garden. There are five categories of plants to be found here: enchantments created as part of Hérisson’s research; Stirpes which were the products of his discovery; examples of Lesser Enchantment Vis he had collected; Enriched Herbs of Virtue (see Realms of Power: Magic, page 124); and magical plants. The game characteristics of some of the enchantments do not follow the standard rules for Hermetic inventions, employing nonstandard Ranges, Durations, or Targets that are normally restricted to those''
''who possess certain Mystery Virtues. This is to represent the fact that these are the products of successful discoveries, and therefore stretch the parameters of standard Hermetic magic.''

===Magical Enchantments===

''Hérisson turned numerous living plants into magical items once he discovered the trick of preparing a living plant for the enchantment process. He discovered that this process stopped the plant from aging, and all his early examples were sterile also, until he stabilized the discovery that was the cornerstone of his research — the Traveling Thistle (see later). All these plants have spikes or thorns, a product of Hérisson’s sigil.''
''Bloodthorn Creo Corpus 15 Pen 0, charged item R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind Each sloe (that is, fruit) of this blackthorn bush provides a +6 to Wound Recovery Rolls for Duration Moon. This is a Charged Item with an unusual method of delivery, and 4 charges remain on the plant. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''Fruitful Medlar Creo Herbam 9 Pen 0, constant R: Per, D: Sun, T: Part This small tree produces ten times as much fruit as a normal example of its kind, in the proper season. It was created as a Lesser Enchantment. (Base 1, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 size; +1 2/day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''False Mandrake This Invested Item is a white bryony plant that was Prepared for Enchantment with 4 pawns of vis (a small wooden object), and invested with this effect: Perdo Corpus 25 Pen 0, 3/day R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group Anyone touching the False Mandrake causes it to issue an ear-splitting scream that deafens those who hear it. This damage heals as a Light Wound. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Group; +2 3/day)''
''Traveling Thistle Creo Vim 14 Pen 0, constant R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind This thistle has a faint taint of magic, and the plants that grow from its seed''
''have the same property as the parent (although they themselves do not pass the taint to their offspring). This is an apparently minor effect, but is the key to Hérisson’s self-replicating vis. (Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 to allow property to be inherited; +1 2/day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Creeping Buttercup Rego Vim 20 Pen 0, 1/day R: Per, D: Mom, T: Part A yellow-flowered plant that grows close to the ground. This plant contains a single pawn of Herbam vis, and once in its life it can be triggered to transfer this pawn into one of its seeds. The plant that grows from the seed likewise inherits the same power. (Base 10, +1 Part, +1 special effect)''
''Everlasting Orpine This tall plant — an orpine, or ‘livelong’ — has a red stem and a crown of pinkish-red flowers, and has been Prepared for Enchantment with 6 pawns of Vim vis (a Medium wooden object). It is still living, but since it was infused with vis it stopped growing and became sterile. This plant offers an Insight worth 2 Breakthrough points (see later).''
''Ever-Flowering Bramble Creo Herbam 33 Pen 0, 1/day R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind This blackberry seed grows into a plant, flowers, produces fruit, sets seed and dies back over the course of a day. In the following day, the seed set by the previous day’s plant repeats the cycle. The fruit produced (about a handful) is pleasant to eat and nutritious, but unless at least one is left on the bush, the regeneration cannot continue. (Base 15, +2 Sun, +1 special effect; +3 environmental trigger)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Warped Plants==

''Plant-life suffers the same warping effects as do people (ArM5, page 197) and animals (Realms of Power: Magic, page 78). Annual and biennial plants escape such effects by virtue of their short lifespans, but perennial plants that are five years or older possess a Minor Flaw from warping, and most of the trees are over 75 years old and thus possess two Minor Flaws and a Minor Virtue. The most common Flaw possessed by the plants in Hérisson’s garden is (Form)''
''Monstrosity*, although some possess Offensive to Animals, Warped Senses*, or any Personality Flaw (for Flaws marked with an *, see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 47–51). Examples: cinnamon trees might have Ignem Monstrosity, causing them to burst into flames in response to loud noises; brambles with Wrathful might especially hurt anyone caught up in them; a rose with Lesser Malediction might drain of all color when in shadow.''

|}
''Hazel of Many Tools Rego Herbam 5 Pen 0, charged item R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind The straight branches growing from this hazel stump are suggestive of all sorts of wooden and metal tools. A character who names a tool next to the plant causes one of the twigs to form itself into the exact shape of that tool, which can then be broken off and used. The character must succeed in an Intelligence + Finesse simple roll of 9 or more to make a tool of standard quality. This is a Charged Item employing craft magic that has an unusual method of delivery, and 10 charges remain on the plant. (Base 5 — see Covenants, page 51)''

===Stirpes===

''Numerous examples of Hérisson’s successes in Hermetic Viresculture grow in his garden. All are Stirpes with an exhausted invigoration, meaning that they only produce a single magical offspring each generation, and it too is a Stirps. All these plants have spikes or thorns, a product of Hérisson’s sigil.''
''Adder’s Tongue: The curled leaf at the center of this wavy-leafed fern contains a pawn of Perdo vis. Alexanders: The fleshy stems of this tall, pungent herb contains a pawn of Herbam vis. Ever-Burning Fire: Flames blossoming within the Fennel of Herbam Vis (see Lesser Enchantment Vis, later) contain a pawn of Ignem vis. This Stirps derives from a fire elemental. Harebell: The delicate flower has downy blue fur reminiscent of a hare’s, and has a pawn of Animal vis. Pasternack (carrot): A common garden vegetable, the sweet purple roots of this plant contain a pawn of Aquam vis (orange varieties of carrots are rare in Mythic Europe). Selfheal: This tiny plant with minute''
''violet flowers contains a pawn of Creo vis. Silverweed: This creeping buttercup-like plant has leaves made of real silver, which contain a pawn of Terram vis.''

===Lesser Enchantment Vis===

''All these types of Lesser Enchantment Vis were made into Stirpes by Hérisson’s Hermetic Viresculture. However, they have exhausted their invigoration, and now only produce a single Stirpes each generation. Characters must duplicate Hérisson’s Minor Breakthrough before they can be Invigorated again.''
''Daisy of Intellego Vis Intellego Herbam 40 Pen 16, 3/day R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind Anyone touching a plant with this large white and yellow flower can converse with plants as per Converse with Plant and Tree (InHe 25, ArM5 page 136). It must Penetrate any Magic Resistance of the target plant to have its effect. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Conc; +5 maintains concentration, +2 3/day, +8 Penetration 16)''
''Mistletoe Sprig of Herbam Vis See Realms of Power: Magic, page 121. Stinking Hellebore of Rego Vis Rego Corpus 25 Pen 0, unlimited uses /day R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind Anyone who touches the fleshy green flowers of this stinking hellebore is paralyzed, and unable to move for two minutes. (Base 5,+1 Touch, +1 Diam; +10 unlimited uses)''
''Honeysuckle of Mentem Vis Rego Mentem 24 Pen 0, constant effect''
''R: Per, D: Sun, T: Scent A vine covered in hooked yellow flowers with a strong scent. This plant’s fragrance affects everyone who smells it with an effect identical to Confusion of the Numbed Will. The perfume extends about 6 paces from the blossoms of the vine. (Base 4, +2 Sun, +2 Scent; +1 2/day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Fennel of Herbam Vis Rego (Creo) Ignem (Herbam) 24 Pen 0, constant effect R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind A tall spike rising from a fleshy bulb, bearing a cloud of tiny yellow flowers. This plant is protected from being burnt, providing +5 Soak against fire-related damage. Any damage done by fire is immediately repaired. It is host to the Ever-Burning Fire (see Stirpes, earlier). (Base 4, +2 Sun, +2 requisites; +1 2/ day, +3 environmental trigger)''

===Enriched Herbs of Virtue===

''See Realms of Power: Magic, page 124 for more details on Enriching Objects of Virtue. Hérisson preserved each plant prior to Enrichment, and they do not begin to expire until used. Three examples of these herbs are given below.''
''Henbane of Virtue A tall herb with sticky hairy leaves and a fetid odor, Henbane is extremely poisonous, and contains a pawn of Perdo vis. It is Enriched by taking a single seed capsule and seeping it in the venom of a scorpion and the crushed skulls of three owls, exposing the mixture to the night sky whenever Saturn is in ascendance. After a season, the seedpod must be swallowed. This grants the Lesser Immunity to Poison Virtue, but also strikes a random sense organ or limb completely numb, inflicting one of the following Flaws (roll a simple die): (1–2)''
''Afflicted Tongue; (3–4) Poor Eyesight; (5–6) Poor Hearing; (7–8) Missing Hand; (9–10) Lame. The effects of the Virtue and Flaw wear off after a year. Three Enriched capsules can be found nestled next to the stem of a Henbane of Virtue.''
''Wild Teasel of Virtue The wild teasel has a tall stem with a distinctive burr the size of an egg.''
''The sticky juice of this plant contains two pawns of Corpus vis, but if it is instead fed to a pregnant dog, and the milk-teeth of her litter are ground up and added to wine, the drinker becomes especially war-like; gaining the Puissant Brawl, Tough, and Berserk Virtues, but also the Minor Personality Flaw of Wrathful. These Virtues and Flaw last for one year, or until the affected character tastes the juice of the valerian plant.''
''Valerian of Virtue A low-growing herb with paired lance-head shaped leaves and clusters of pale pink flowers on a stem. The greenish juice extracted from the root is a powerful medicine, and in the Valerian of Virtue the root has two pawns of Creo vis. The root can be Enriched by being sliced with a silver knife on a night when Venus is in the sky, bathed in horse urine every Friday, then ground between two pieces of amber. Enriched Valerian Juice grants Rapid Convalescence, Enduring Constitution, and Reserves of Strength Virtues, but also the Code of Honor Flaw. These Virtues and Flaw last for one year, or until the affected character tastes the milk of the teasel.''

===Magical Plants===

''There are a number of magical plants in the garden that do not fall into one of the above categories. Some of these, such as the chiefs of the three tribes, and Dodder (see nearby insert), are animate plants with Intelligence and a Might''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Wrestling in the Herb Garden==

''The Wild Teasel and the Valerian are enemies. They grow in profusion on opposite sides of a sward, with a thin line of grass between them. Anyone touching one of the patches will become infused with fighting spirit and want to wrestle with anyone who explores the other patch. The magic of the area means that one person will be picked for each team. Teasel encourages dirty fighting, and those''
''affected by its power tend to inflict damage as often as they can, even if it is lots of small wounds. Valerian prefers to overcome its opponents with patience, and its champions tend to grapple and immobilise. If the Teasel’s opponent wins, then he is given a draft of Enriched Teasel Milk. If the Valerian’s opponent is victorious, he receives a sip of Enriched Valerian Juice.''

==Dodder==

''Magic Might: 25 (Herbam) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –3, Str +7, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing, Magical Monster; Great Strength x2, Great Stamina, Tough; Infamous, Poor Hearing Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Strangle the Life), Greater Power (Wear Corpse), Improved Strength x2; Improved Might x5, Improved Soak x2, Lesser Power (Sprout Limbs), Minor Virtue (Improved Characteristics)''
''x2, Minor Virtue (Puissant Brawl); Monstrous Appearance Personality Traits: Murderous +4, Brave +3, Dodder* +3 Reputations: Assassin 4 (Local) Combat: Grapple: Init +2, Attack +13*, Defense +13*, Damage +7 *	 By using its Sprout Limbs power, Dodder can act as a trained group and receive a bonus to either Attack or Defense of +12 Soak: +13 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Athletics 5 (chase), Brawl 8+2 (grapple), Leadership 3 (own limbs), Stealth 5 (undergrowth) Powers: Sprout Limbs, 0 points, Init –1, Herbam: Dodder can weave up to eight limbs from the mass of tendrils which make up its body. It can therefore continue to attack and defend even when faced by multiple opponents, and should be treated as a trained group of four. Every two limbs used to strangle reduces the size of the group by one. Cr(Re)He 10 (Base 1, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +1 requisite): Lesser Power (10 levels, –2 Might cost, +1 Init) Strangle the Life, 0 points, Init +2, Cor''

|}
''score, which are generally a product of Warping. The storyguide should populate the garden with other examples of sentient plants as she sees fit, using the rules in Realms of Power: Magic to give them appropriate powers. The garden also contains wonders from Hérisson’s travels, unique examples of plants that cannot be found anywhere within the bounds of Mythic Europe, but instead are from exotic far-off lands. An example of this is the Vegetable Lamb, a strange hybrid between plant and animal. It stands about four feet high, and has long dark green leaves. The most remarkable feature are on the tips of the stems, the head, forequarters, and body of a minuscule lamb complete with fluffy wool. The weight of these lambs cause the plant to bend down, and the sheep graze on the grass in proximity to each plant. When all the grass has been grazed out, the lambs stop moving and lose their distinctive heads and limbs, getting lighter in the process. All that remains is a fluffy ball of wool that can be processed like any other. A grove of cinnamon trees can be''
''found in the garden, which let off a pungent aroma and are prone to spontaneous ignition. There is a child of the Drudenbaum of Harberg (Guardians of the Forests, page 89), although the version in Hérisson’s garden does not produce vis for some reason. There may even be some of the totem trees from the mythical island of Soqotra (see Rival Magic, The Soqotrans) such as cinnabar, olibanum, myrrh, and aloe, each of which have their own magical properties.''

==Aftermath==

''These are just a few suggestions for ways to use Hérisson’s Garden in your own saga.''

===The Garden As a Source of Breakthrough===

''The garden’s principal use is as the raw source material to recreate Héris''
''son’s research into Hermetic Viresculture. Hérisson had taken the route of Original Research (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26) to develop both a Major Breakthrough and a Minor Breakthrough in Hermetic magic. These required 45 and 30 Breakthrough points respectively, which were gained through experimentation when inventing spells and enchantments. However, a magus (or group of magi) recreating his work need not pursue Original Research himself, since Hérisson’s inventions still exist in his garden. Instead, these inventions may be studied as a source of Insight (Ancient Magic, page 8, or Hedge Magic, page 14) and then used to recreate the enchantment, earning Breakthrough points equal to the magnitude of the effect created. Because Hérisson’s breakthrough was fully integrated into Hermetic Theory, it is easier to comprehend his discoveries than to gain insights from non-Hermetic magic. When studying from one of Hérisson’s living Enchantments, a magus can simply investigate the source of Insight in a laboratory (see ArM5, page 100)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Dodder (cont’d)==

''pus: The wiry fingers of Dodder wrap around the throat of its victim and begin to drain its life. Every round the victim must make a Deprivation roll, and the Ease Factor is equal to the result of a Strength roll made by Dodder. Dodder can strangle up to eight people simultaneously, one with each limb. Victims can struggle to escape, by beating Dodder’s Grapple Attack with their own Grapple Attack. PeCo 30 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +2 Group): Greater Power (30 levels, –2 Might Cost, +2 Init) Wear Corpse, 1 point, Init –2, Corpus: Dodder can insinuate itself into a''
''human corpse of Size –1 to Size +1 and animate it. This power also preserves the corpse from decay. It can use its other powers while within this skin, but cannot heal any damage inflicted on the corpse. It cannot maintain a convincing pretense at being human for very long. Re(Cr)Co 35 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 constant, +1 requisite): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might Cost) Vis: 5 pawns of Perdo, in tendrils Appearance: In its natural state, a tangle of yellow and red tendrils lying in the grass and twined around plants. It has occasional clusters of pale pink, bell-like flowers. How''
''ever, it can form into a horrid mass of writhing tendrils somewhat man-shaped, and weave many-fingered limbs from its body.''
''Dodder is a parasitic plant that grows over and strangles other plants, and this magical Dodder attacks more than just other plants. It often lies in wait for its victims, which it engulfs with its swiftly-moving strands and then sucks the life out of them. Dodder is incapable of speech, and does not respond to any form of communication, yet its tactics when hunting suggests that it has a baleful intellect driving it.''

|}
''instead of attempting an Intelligence + Magic Theory roll (Ancient Magic, page 8). Once the effect has been determined the Insight can be used to duplicate its effect, which, once complete, grants Breakthrough points equal to the magnitude of the effect duplicated. Investigating one of Hérisson’s Stirpes also uses the Hermetic Investigation rules in lieu of a Magic Theory roll. Each Stirps should be considered to be an enchantment of Level 15, and the Insight gained is a version of Gather the Essence of the Beast (ArM5, page 162). The first time this Insight is gained it grants three Breakthrough points as usual. If another Stirps is investigated for an Insight, another version of the spell can be invented, but the second and subsequent versions yield just a single Breakthrough point each. If any of the other magical plants of Hérisson’s garden are used for a source of Insight (the Lesser Enchantment Vis, the Magical Plants, or the Enriched Herbs of''
''Virtue) then the process described in Ancient Magic must be used instead. Furthermore, those wishing to recreate Hérisson’s Minor Breakthrough of breeding Lesser Enchantment Vis must gain their Insights from these sources rather than Hérisson’s own creations, and they must have already rediscovered Hermetic Viresculture.''

===The Garden As a Source of Study===

''Containing as it does over fifty superlative and/or unique plant species, the garden can be used as a collection of realia (Covenants, page 102) for the Art of Herbam. By studying the plants for a season, a magus generates a Source Quality of 6, and can study from the garden six times in total. A magus who has recreated Hérisson’s research can use the examples of Stirpes found within as realia of Hermetic Viresculture, with a Quality of 4, and can study them four times in total.''

===The Garden As an Hermetic Laboratory===

''Hérisson’s Garden is a fully-functioning Hermetic laboratory, albeit an unusual one. Unsurprisingly, the laboratory is highly specialized in the Art of Herbam, and gets an additional bonus to this Art due to the Herbam-aligned Magic aura of 6. To use the laboratory it must be adapted to the character’s own style of working (see Taking Over a Laboratory, Covenants, page 118). Hérisson did not provide any living quarters or furniture for himself, preferring to live in his laboratory in heartbeast''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Laboratory Texts from the Garden==

''At the option of the storyguide, Laboratory Texts for Hérisson’s own Original Research can be found in the garden. Each of his Hermetic creations provides Breakthrough Points equal to the magnitude of the effect once it has been studied by recreating the experiment (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 29 for the full process). However, it is unlikely that these Laboratory Texts are simple tomes of''
''parchment and wood. It could be that one such text is a small tree, each leaf inscribed with a single page of text, and deciphering Hérisson’s code consists of determining the proper order of the leaves. Another text might take the form of a fruit, with the words of the text written on the seeds found within it. How many pages will be eaten by the grogs before their real worth is discovered?''

|}
''form, but any character moving in will probably find the need to build a hut in which to live. The Safety Characteristic of the laboratory has suffered since Hérisson’s day, and this will probably need improving. Laboratory equipment is provided by the garden itself: the gourds that grow on vines make ready-made flasks and alembics; bowls can be found in the cup-shaped fungi; tables, desks, and chairs are provided in the twisted branches of the trees over rocks; the Ever-Burning Tree is a source of fire, and the brook a source of water; and birch-bark paper can be simply unrolled from the trees. All manner of rods, pens, knives, and other simple tools can be quickly manufactured from the reeds, razor-sharp grasses, and countless branches and stems. A notable feature is the spring, which as source and destination of all the garden’s water serves as a Lesser Feature that assists in the extraction of vis. Naturally, all manner of herbal ingredients can be found, but there is also a good supply of animal and mineral components born by the stranger plants in the garden and among its wildlife. The more one looks for components, the more one finds objects that can be used in the laboratory. However, the eclectic placement and large size of the laboratory leaves the components chaotically arranged and somewhat disorganized.''
''The constant growth of equipment and ingredients is confusing until one adapts to the natural rhythm of the garden, and the seasonal availability of certain components often dictates what activities can be performed. When planning a season’s activity, roll a simple die. If it is under the Laboratory’s Warping Characteristic, then the equipment and ingredients for that ac''
''tivity are available and the season can progress as planned; else the character must pick a different activity instead. Add two to this roll in winter, when the garden is partially dormant.''
''Virtues: Natural Environment (Major, Structure); Lesser Feature (Minor, Structure), Specimens* x 3 (Minor, Outfitting), Spacious (Minor, Structure), Superior Decorations* (Minor, Outfitting), Vis Source (Minor, Supernatural); Idyllic Surroundings (Free, Structure), Inexhaustible Supplies (Free, Supernatural), Regio (Free, Supernatural)''
''*	 These Virtues do not increase Upkeep as they derive from living plants.''
''If the characters have successfully negotiated a truce with the garden plants, they also benefit from the Lesser''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: A Burning Desire==

''A phoenix near the end of its life comes to the garden seeking a cinnamon tree. As is its custom, the bird will build a nest of cinnamon boughs, which are then immolated along with the bird when the rising sun ignites the nest, and a phoenix chick is reborn in the ashes. A magus desiring an exotic familiar could bargain''
''with the dying bird for its child, but the phoenix demands the death of a distant king who craves the flesh of exotic birds. The magus might be tempted to ignore the deal once the parent bird is dead, or at least delay its execution. This invokes the deathcurse of the phoenix.''

==Further Reading==

''Best, MR and Brightman, FH eds. The Book of Secrets of Albertus Magnus. Samuel Weiser Inc., 1999. Collins, M. Medieval Herbals: The Illustrative Tradition. The British Library and University of Toronto Press, 2000. Fisher, C. Flowers in Medieval Manuscripts. The British Library, 2004. Jennings, A. Medieval Gardens. English''
''Heritage, 2004. McLean, T. Medieval English Gardens. Collins, 1981. Pliny the Elder. Natural History: a Selection. J. F. Healy trans. Penguin, 1991. Strabo, Walafrid. Hortulus. R. Payne trans. Hunt Botanical Library, 1966.''

|}

==Story Seed: The Kidnapped Totems==

''It has taken them many centuries, but the Soqotran sorcerers (Rival Magic, Chapter 3) have finally discovered who stole their totem plants and where he took them. Their theft by Hérisson was tantamount to kidnapping a beloved family member, and has denied generations of potential sorcerers their power. A delegation of''
''Soqotran sorcerers — one from each tribe — force their way into the garden with the intent to recover their trees and to punish the thief. They will assume that Hermetic magi in the garden are descendants of Hérisson, since they use the same magic, and they will vent their anger on them before leaving.''
''Horde Supernatural Virtue (+1 General Quality, +1 Safety, +1 Aesthetics, +1 specialization in either Perdo for the Venenarium tribe, Creo for the Curtilagium tribe, or Rego for the Hortulus tribe). This Virtue does not incur the usual Upkeep cost. If they made an enemy of one of the tribes, this imposes the Gremlins Supernatural Flaw (–3 Safety, +1 Warping, –1 Aesthetics, +1 Experimentation, +1 Perdo, Creo, or Rego,''
''depending on the tribe).''
''Flaws: Outdoors (Major, Structure); Chaotic (Minor, Supernatural), Living (Minor, Supernatural); Disorganized (Free, Structure)''
''Characteristics: Size +10 (+5), Refinement 0, General Quality –1, Upkeep –1, Safety –5, Warping +6, Health 0, Aesthetics +6''
''Specializations: Vis Extraction +3, Experimentation +2, Herbam +10, Imaginem +1, Muto +2''
''Personality Traits: Growing +3, Curious +2, Exotic +1''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
