''Lifetime: 986 AD – 1123 AD (Final Twilight) Overview: A master of ancient magics, who created a Mystery Cult of her own. Her hidden island is still the domain of spirit servitors that are bound into and power magic devices.''
''Fortunata of Jerbiton is famous as a skilled writer, historian and translator of ancient texts from many lost languages. She is also famous (or to some, infamous) for having acquired power as a supernaturally-gifted necromancer. She forced powerful beings to her will, as servants, or as power for enchanted de''
''vices; her familiar (some say lover) was a magical spirit. Her detractors claimed she gained power by dealing with the devil, but in truth she mastered the art of Self-Initiation to turn quests into power, without obedience to any organized Mystery Cult.''

==Legend==

''Fortunata was a daughter of a prince of Milan until, around 996, the magus Apollo of Jerbiton recognized her Gentle Gift and took her as his apprentice. He found her to be intelligent, charismatic, and a quick learner. Her childhood name is not recorded, but on her Gauntlet she adopted the Hermetic name of Fortunata. She made her parens proud as she became known as a fine scholar of House Jerbiton, but privately she was wracked with envy of the potent, specialized magics of other magi, and came to desire those far more than the mundane art and learning of her House and parens. As a young maga in the Rome Tribunal, she traveled the Mediterranean regions, meeting other magi and visiting the inspirational ruins of the ancient Romans and Greeks. On one of these journeys, she came upon a spirit which''
''had been trapped by a witch, bound to a cleft stone as punishment for some slight. Fortunata rescued the spirit, Lucida, and they became friends and traveling companions, and eventually joined as maga and familiar. Spurning the ideals of Jerbiton, she sought and mastered ancient rites and rituals of power: Initiation Scripts for the Virtues of lost cults, and their Cult Lores. She created a system for herself, effectively a solo Mystery Cult, whose lore she named Principles Lore, then adapted Initiations for her own use, taking that power for herself. The sudden acquisition of power, without obvious explanation, led rivals to accuse her of dealing with demons. Though false, the rumors and accusations dogged the remainder of her career — her secrecy did little to dispel them. So much so that, in later years, she quit her covenant and retired to a hidden island in the Mediterranean, communicating with the Redcaps via a house in Venice. House Mercere may remember the generous hospitality she offered there. She devised spells to summon, interrogate and command spirits and ghosts of ancients, keeping them as servants in preference to mundane beings, and sending them as distant agents of her will. When others encountered her, they reported shimmering clouds of spirits coming and going about her — some said acting as her spies, in violation of the Code, though she was always wary of the Quaesitores and careful not to use her spirits so. Her Jerbiton heritage and scholarship not wholly forgotten, Fortunata translated dead languages by commanding ancient ghosts read the texts aloud while she used Mentem magics to understand their words, which she then transcribed in Latin. Many of those texts came into circulation around the Mediterranean and into the rest of the Order of Hermes. Hints and comments in the margins may leave the reader wishing he could find the rest of Fortunata’s books.''
''Her eventual fate is not recorded — the last known encounter was in 1123 — but it seems likely she died or entered Final Twilight not long after, leaving her island covenant and library as treasure to be opened and studied.''

==Legacy==

''The library where Fortunata’s books are preserved makes a treasure in itself, with details of Principles Lore and its Initiation Scripts, spells and lab texts, magical devices and bound spirits — see''
''this chapter, Fortunata’s Villa. The island itself, with its spirits and vis sources is a further treasure — see this chapter, Fortunata’s Island. Copies of some of her writings were sent out in her lifetime, and are sometimes found across Mythic Europe. Whereas most of the treasures in Legends of Hermes are found at the end of quests or adventures, parts of Fortunata’s treasures are to be stumbled upon, then used to create those adventures. The quests contained in the scripts become a treasure for the saga itself, drawing other characters to far corners of Mythic Europe accompanying the questing magus.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Of Spirits, and Mystery Virtues==

''Much of Fortunata’s power was obtained by Initiation of Virtues through Mysteries. Readers may find The Mysteries: Revised Edition helpful, as it gives full details of the process of Initiation, and the design of Initiation Scripts. Several of the Virtues gained by Fortunata are described in outline''
''here, and more fully in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, and House of Hermes: Mystery Cults. There are a number of Magical spirits, for which Realms of Power: Magic provides more detailed descriptions of the Powers, Qualities, and Inferiorities of magical beings.''

==Principles Lore==

''Principles Lore is a Mystery Cult Lore of Fortunata’s own devising (see this chapter, Cult Lore: Fortunata’s “Principles Lore”), which forms the basis of Initiations and Initiation Scripts devised by Fortunata. She copied and''
''distributed texts on Principles Lore, hoping that others might follow her teachings, but they are largely forgotten by 1220. The actual Initiation Scripts she kept mostly to herself: they form part of the treasure in the library.''

|}

==Ancient Lores or Hermetic Delusion?==

''Fortunata repeatedly writes that she found texts of the ancients, and used them to Initiate Virtues, although many of these are Hermetic Virtues. Since there was no system of Hermetic magic before Bonisagus, this cannot''
''be so. Was Fortunata was deluded as to the nature of the texts she found? Or did she lie in her writings? Perhaps she had a knack for creating Initiation Scripts for Hermetic Virtues that closely paralleled ancient Virtues?''

==Fortunata’s Initiations==

''Fortunata’s perfectionist nature and scholarship, and her vow to resurrect the ancient lores, led her to write out and preserve the details of the Initiations she performed for herself. These scripts may be discovered scattered around Mythic Europe, or gathered together in her lost library. A complete set of her works would allow the reader to follow her path of self-Initiation for personal power, or to found their own Mystery Cult based on her ideas. Each of the Initiation Scripts includes one or more Quests which the Initiate must perform. The Initiate must play the largest part in a Quest, but may be accompanied or even aided by others, unless the Quest specifies otherwise. Indeed, some of the Quests may be almost impossible without some outside aid — though they leave it to the Initiate to recognize this.''
''The Quests are only given in outline, like a story seed, leaving most details for the saga to refine. A magus may set out on a Quest and other players take the supporting roles; for a particularly arduous Quest, players might instead take on opposing roles.''

==Cult Lore: Fortunata’s “Principles Lore”==

''Fortunata did not think of herself as founding a Mystery Cult, but as studying and resurrecting the forgotten lore of the ancients. As she uncovered rites and observations, and devised more herself, she gathered and named them as her “Principles”, being the guide she used to organize her entire life. Knowledge of this constitutes an “Organization Lore” in game terms, and acts as the “Cult Lore”''
''for a set of Initiations with no actual cult. The full set of texts includes the ancient original texts, with translations and adaptations by Fortunata, and tractatus by Fortunata. In her later years she also wrote a long summa gathering all her thoughts together. She seems to have become somewhat obsessed by the Principles, spending entire seasons dedicating herself to them as a way of life (in game terms, as Practice in Principles Lore). Magi reading these texts study a new Organization Lore Ability, Principles Lore. A minimal study of the Principles is required before any use of the Initiation Scripts, but if magi are already members of a Mystery Cult, the Scripts and Lore texts can be adapted to other cults. (See the nearby insert.) Unlike many other Mystery Cults, Fortunata’s “Cult” imposes no ranks, hierarchy or sequence of Initiations. Fortunata’s earlier scripts provide a higher''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==What the Order Remembers of Fortunata==

''See the Introduction for details on revealing the legend of Fortunata. A few details are only known by a few: some Redcaps or Jerbiton magi. Note that some legends may be false; Fortunata has become a fable. As well as certain distortions, there are some blatant untruths that persist, some of which arose from jealousy and resentment at her success.''

===Known By All===

''•	 Fortunata was a spirit master and maga of House Jerbiton. •	 She was active in the Rome Tribunal, but left to live in a private retreat. •	 She defeated many non-Hermetic enemies in Southern Europe and North Africa. •	 She gained power from ancient lore, and translated texts of the ancients. •	 She stole the power of many''
''Mysteries. •	 It is said her books include the secrets of how to gain the same powers she did. •	 Powerful Hermetic enemies forced her into exile. •	 She disappeared into Twilight around 1123.''

===Widely Known===

''•	 She had no familiar, but was accompanied by a spirit companion. •	 She walked surrounded by a cloud of airy spirits which rushed to obey her every command. •	 She was an extremely gifted scholar, but let the House down in jealous desire for magical power. [Jerbiton magi only.] •	 She was not a member of any known Mystery Cult, but wrote about many.''
''•	 Her house in Venice offered a rich welcome for Redcaps. [Redcaps only.]''

===Uncommon Knowledge===

''•	 She disproved charges of infernalism and magical spying and walked free, but still chose to retire. •	 She owned and ran a house in Venice, which was used as a rendezvous by Redcaps for many years. •	 Her hidden retreat was on one of the myriad small islands in the Ionian Sea (or other region of the Mediterranean, as appropriate to the Saga). •	 She impressed many with her scholarship, but disappointed her parens. •	 She used magic to translate unreadable scrolls, exceeding Hermetic limits on translation.''

|}
''Script Bonus, from when she had a limited Cult Lore score; her later scripts assume the Initiate has mastered the Principles, and provide lower Script Bonuses (and hence reduced requirements and sacrifice). A partial order exists for certain scripts, where those immediately after a specific Ordeal take advantage of the “previous Ordeal” reduction of subsequent Initiation Totals:''
''Initiation of Spirit Familiar Initiation of Minor Magical Focus Commanding spirits, includes Ordeal Initiation of Major Magical Focus Spirit magic, first after Ordeal Initiation of Spell Binding Second after Ordeal Initiation of Hermetic Empowerment Third after Ordeal''
''There was once another script, to Initiate the Mystery Virtue Hermetic Synthemata (as detailed in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 87), but this is no longer in Fortunata’s library. Troupes wishing to include this should consult The Mysteries: Revised Edition, and create an Initiation Script in the style of the others.''

==Self-Initiation of Mystery Virtues==

''There are a number of points worth noting for the magus with no Mystery Cult to guide them through an ordained path of Initiation.''

===How To Use a Script With No Cult===

''It is normal to be introduced to the Mysteries through the organized teachings of a Mystagogue in a formal Cult. However, none of this is truly needed–it just makes things easier. A magus can Initiate himself as easily as he can Initiate another into a Virtue he, as Mystagogue, lacks. A system of rites and rituals is still needed, though it need not describe an actual Cult. Each (Mystery Cult) Lore is an instance of (Organization) Lore (ArM5, page 66; The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 11). Organization Lore provides knowledge that includes the rites, secrets and symbolism of the cult. Fortunata’s Principles Lore is an Orga''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Borrowing Cult Lore and Initiation Scripts==

''A Mystagogue may spend a season dedicated to research, fasting and meditation practicing their Cult Lore. The Practice Source Quality for this is normally 4.''

===a Season Dedicated===


===To Practice Cult Lore = Quality 4===

''However, most Mystery Cults derive, or claim to derive, from ancient lore. To reflect this, a Mystagogue who has obtained a text on the Cult Lore of another Cult may use this in their research if, in the judgment of the troupe, the other Cult’s ideas are compatible with the Mystagogue’s Cult Lore, and invent new rites and rituals inspired by the ancient cults. The Practice Source Quality for this is generally 5.''

===a Season of Practice Cult Lore===


===Inspired By Ancient Lore = Practice Source Quality 5===

''Fortunata appears to have based her Principles Lore on some Roman''
''and Greek Cults of the Dead, combined with any other bits of Lore she could lay her hands on. Note that some Cult elders may resent the introduction of new and “heretical” outside ideas — indeed some discourage study by Practice and insist that Cult Lore be studied from “proper” texts.''

===Adapting Scripts===

''Devising a new Initiation Script by Experimentation (see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 18) is difficult for the Mystagogue and hazardous for the Initiate, so a working Initiation Script is a treasure, but less so if written for some other Cult than that which the maga follows. Not all Cults mix well together; troupe approval is needed to judge whether a text is compatible. A maga may study the text for a while — a week, rather than a whole Season — and may then adapt the script if she understands it. To see if the''
''maga understands another cult’s script make a roll of Intelligence + (other Cult) Lore against an Ease Factor of 9. Failure means she must study again; a botch means a misunderstanding and a false script. (Note that to make the roll at all, using (other Cult) Lore, requires a score of zero or more in that Lore — some study is required. Practicing one’s own Cult Lore drawing inspiration from another Cult’s Lore provides enough familiarity.) Once understood, the maga may modify the Initiation Script as if changing a component (see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 17), with a roll of Intelligence + (own Cult) Lore against an Ease Factor of 12.''

===To Understand Another Cult’s Script: Intelligence + (Other Cult) Lore Vs. 9===


===To Modify the Script, Change a Script Component: Intelligence + (Own Cult) Lore Vs. 12===


|}
''nization Lore invented by her, solely for the purpose of organizing and cataloging the Initiations she devised. A magus who studies Principles Lore may use it to initiate himself, or another, using Initiation Scripts based on Principles Lore. Much as a Mystagogue may use Practice to expand his cult Lore, or to found a new Cult, Fortunata shows how to build a set of rules, rites and interpretations that fulfill the same role. The Self-Initiate uses his own Presence, and whichever Organization Lore he has found to be appropriate. Troupe approval is needed to adapt a pre-existing organization to take on Mysteries, and should not be given unless the organiza''
''tion had some sort of mystical style — you should instead devise a new Ability that begins anew with a mystical bent.''

===The Need To Vary a Script To Increase the Bonus===

''Scripts created by a “first generation” Mystagogue will often reflect the Presence and Ability scores of that magus, and a new maga seeking to follow in their footsteps may find the Script does not provide enough Initiation Points. In this case, the script may be extended. To add a further Quest (+3 Script Bonus) to an existing Initiation Script, the Mysta''
''gogue must succeed in a test of Intelligence + (Mystery Cult) Lore against an Ease Factor of 9 (see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 17).''

===Keeping Track of Ordeals & the Previous-ordeal Bonus===

''Even if not following an ordained sequence of Initiations, it is important to record the Ordeals suffered by the Initiate. These not only provide a Script Bonus to the Initiation specifying the Ordeal, but also reduce the Initiation Total required for the next three Initiations, no matter what they are. This in turn reduces the needed Script Bonus, which makes experimental scripts and similar activities easier, so some scripts are designed to follow previous Ordeals. This is shown in Fortunata’s use of two separate Scripts to obtain the Virtue Major Magical Focus, Initiating the Minor version as preparation.''

===Multiple Or Overlapping Scripts===

''With the tendency for scripts to be varied, it is not uncommon to come across scripts with considerable overlap: some of Fortunata’s own scripts have been modified by some successor to Initiate a different but similar Virtue. Such a script is often not usable by a self-Initiate, as they have already performed (“used”) the Quests or suffered the Ordeals which form both scripts. In an established Mystery Cult, the Cult may already have some other script with different Quests and Ordeals, which the Initiate may use — but the self-Initiate may have no alternative available. The magus must change the new script and either modify the subject of the Quest or Ordeal, or replace it by a different Quest. Modifying a script requires a roll of Intelligence + Cult Lore against an Ease Factor of 12; replacing a''

==Initiation Mechanics==

''The Initiation process is fully defined in The Mysteries: Revised Edition Chapter 2, but a very brief summary is included here. Initiation involves a mystical process where a teacher (Mystagogue) guides a pupil (Initiate) through acts of ritual significance (defined in an Initiation Script). The Mystagogue adds their Presence and score in their (Mystery Cult) Lore and a bonus from the Initiation Script. If this meets or exceeds the Target Level of the Initiation, the ceremony succeeds (there is no die roll).''

===Initiation Total: Presence + (Mystery Cult) Lore + Script Bonus===


===To Initiate a Minor Virtue===


===Known By the Mystagogue: Target Level Is 15===


===To Initiate a Major Virtue===


===Known By the Mystagogue: Target Level Is 21===


===To Initiate a Minor Virtue Not Known By the Mystagogue: Target Level Is 18===


===To Initiate a Major Virtue Not Known By the Mystagogue: Target Level Is 30===

''If an Initiation involves an Ordeal (inflicting a Minor or Major Flaw, or increasing a Minor Flaw to Major Flaw (a Medium Ordeal)), the next 3 Initiations benefit from a reduced Target Level. Only the single best factor applies.''

===Target Level for First Initiation After an Ordeal: –3 (Minor), –6 (Medium), –9 (Major)===


===Target Level for Second Initiation After an Ordeal: –2 (Minor), –4 (Medium), –6 (Major)===


===Target Level for Third Initiation After an Ordeal: –1 (Minor), –2 (Medium), –3 (Major)===

''In Self-Initiation, the maga acts as her own Mystagogue, and uses her own Presence and (Cult) Lore, but faces the increased Target Levels for a Virtue not known by the Mystagogue.''
''script element by a different one has an Ease factor of 15. Modifying the subject of a Quest is most appropriate when adapting a novel script to fit a character’s circumstances, rather than modifying a too-similar script to allow re-use. The troupe should decide whether a proposed “modification” is enough to validate the script, or whether a greater change is needed to justify the Initiation. An Ordeal is rarely repeatable, as the magus will normally still have the earlier Ordeal Flaw. Sacrifices are more easily repeated — the sacrifice of wealth or time is “generic,” while the greater sacrifices such as destruction of one’s talisman are made different by the task of obtaining or preparing new and different sacrificial item.''

==Initiation of Puissant Principles Lore==

''The last Initiation Fortunata described was a personal dedication to resurrect the ancient lores. There is no evidence that Fortunata ever used this script; rather, it seems that she left it as a gift for those who followed her, to encourage them onto her path and to compensate for the low Presence of a typical''
''magus. Indeed, she made several copies of the Script with explanatory notes, and sent them to acquaintances, who seem to have filed them in their covenant libraries with little further thought — until perhaps a junior magus stumbles across a copy. The script requires the Initiate to demonstrate his dedication to gathering her Principles. He must perform a Quest to discover or rescue texts on Principles Lore before writing a new text on Principles Lore. He must also make a Vow to resurrect the Principles and fulfill a second Quest by persuading three other magi to study his text, then each to write a tractatus on Principles Lore in return. The dedication ceremony should be performed at dawn on the midwinter solstice, on a high peak in a remote magical place — Fortunata suggests the peak of Mount Olympus in Greece or the top of the Great Pyramid at Giza in Egypt. During the dedication ceremony, the Initiate must burn incense and sacrifice 5 pawns of raw vis, dedicating the released vis to the spirits of magic. If the ceremony is correct and acceptable to the spirits, then the magus gains the Virtue Puissant Principles Lore, and a +2 bonus to his score when using Principles Lore. [Initiation Total 18, Script Bonus 16:''
''Ordeal (3) + Quest (3) + Quest (3) + Place and Time (3) + Initiate’s Time (1) + Sacrifice of Vis (1) + Sympathy bonus (2).] The script requires that the Self-Initiate have a Presence + Principles Lore of 2. Note that the Vow, as an Ordeal (Minor Flaw), means that the next three Initiation Totals will be reduced by –3, –2, and –1 in turn.''

==Initiation of Spirit Familiar==

''The first Initiation Fortunata performed for herself was to gain the Virtue Spirit Familiar so that she could cement her bond to Lucida. This, like many of Fortunata’s other scripts, was not an original invention, according to the Experimentation rules (The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 18), but an adaptation of an Ancient Greek ceremony of union with spirits. In Fortunata’s script, the Initiate performs a Quest to find and rescue the proposed Familiar Spirit, completes a Quest to defeat and imprison the enemy of her spirit, and discovers a place and time of deep significance to the pair, where the ceremony should take place. At the end of the ceremony, the magus gains the in''
''sight to bind a spirit as their Familiar. Note that Fortunata had already found and rescued Lucida, as player magi may also have found a candidate spirit (one matching their Arts), before finding a personal need for Spirit Familiar. This might normally preclude the quest for discovery as an Initiation Quest, but by building on the intimate significance of the relationship between magus and familiar, tuning the Initiation Script and completing additional Quests she was able to complete the process. A player magus may follow a similar path, or further modify the Script, as described in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 17. The summa De Disciplinae Fortunatae (“Fortunata’s Principles”) tells the story of how Fortunata discovered Lucida, bound''
''in a magical prison, and how she rescued and befriended Lucida. Together they hunted and bound a monster she calls “Monocaudus” — the reading is uncer''
''tain, as Fortunata variously refers to him as human or serpent. Monocaudus had earlier tormented Lucida, and perhaps participated in the imprisoning ritual. Fortunata is not specific about the place where she performed the Initiation ceremony, other than that it was not the place where she rescued Lucida, and was of great significance to herself. The Initiate’s player and the rest of the troupe should discuss what constitutes an appropriate place. Perhaps subsequent discovery of the secret place by rivals or enemies would threaten the new Initiate? [Initiation Total 18, Script Bonus 12: Quest (3) + Quest (3) + Place and Time (3) + Sympathy bonus (3).]''

==Initiation of Minor Magical Focus (commanding spirits)==

''A Roman cult of the dead provided this script and the Major Virtue Initiation that follows; Fortunata adapted the script to follow her own Principles. This script requires only that the maga expose herself to the torments of free spirits and command them loudly, while making vows according to the rites of the Principles. This is an Ordeal, and inflicts the Major Flaw: Necessary Condition (speak the names of spirits).''

==Virtue: Spirit Familiar==

''The Virtue Spirit Familiar is described in detail in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 66. Finding and binding a spirit familiar is very similar to finding and binding an animal familiar–the Technique and Form of the enchantment should match the spirit’s own magic, and usually match the magus’s best Arts. An insubstantial spirit has no Size, so the bonding level ignores Size:''

===Spirit Familiar Bonding Level: Spirit’s Might + 25===

''The three cords are renamed, and have slightly different powers:''
''The Hermes Cord acts like the Gold Cord, but also adds to all rolls involving Enigmatic Wisdom, even if the magus lacks Enigmatic Wisdom. The Isis Cord acts like the Silver Cord, but also adds to Lab Totals and the Casting Score of spells involving spirits. The Hekate Cord acts like the Bronze Cord but, in addition,''
''the magus may apply the Hekate cord score to any Stamina roll (including Fatigue rolls) for each point of Might expended by the familiar (up to 5 Might expended on any one roll); or grant temporary Might points to the familiar equal to the Hekate bond score by spending 1 Fatigue level.''
''The spirit uses the better of its Might-based Magic Resistance or the magus’s Form resistance, but neither stacks with Parma Magica. The magus may use the spirit’s Magic Resistance instead of his Form resistance, but again this does not stack with Parma Magica. Virtues and Flaws relating to specific Forms or to Parma Magica do not apply if Might-based Magic Resistance is used. The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 69, has suggestions for generating the spirit as a character, but much more detail can be found in Realms of Power: Magic, Chapter 7: Magic Spirits.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Speaking the Names of Spirits==

''The primary effect of this condition is that the magus may not cast spells silently, but must always cast spells aloud (though they may still speak quietly), and that those hearing the spell-casting may recognize the invocations. Fortunata intended “invoking the names of the pagan Greek and Roman deities” — which can cause problems''
''in public — but many magi are more comfortable using saints’ names. Magi can Vary the Initiation Script to modify this Ordeal detail (requires an Intelligence + Principles Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12 (See The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 17)). Alternately, the troupe may feel that the names of saints count as “names of spirits” for magical purposes.''

|}
''At the end of the ceremony, the successful Initiate gains the Virtue Minor Magical Focus (commanding spirits), which covers those Rego (Form) spells and effects which command insubstantial spirits, ghosts, elementals and the like. Only spells which give commands or instructions are included in the Focus, and no Technique requisites are permitted, but spirits of any Form are included. [Initiation Total 18, Script Bonus 12: Major Ordeal (9) + Sympathy bonus (3).]''

==Initiation of Major Magical Focus (spirit magic)==

''A Roman cult of the dead provided this script and the Minor Magical Focus Initiation that precedes this — Fortunata adapted the script to follow her own Principles. This script requires that the maga already have and replace a Minor Magical Focus Virtue. The script indicates “Focus in commanding spirits”, but actually any Minor Magical Focus may be sacrificed. It also relies on the reduction from the Ordeal prescribed by the Initiation of Minor Magical Focus script.''
''The Initiate must seek out and defeat a strong spirit (Might 20+), and then use this spirit as an instrument to defeat a second equally powerful spirit. The Initiation ceremony is performed at midnight on All Hallow’s Eve, at the site of the defeat of the second spirit, where the maga must release the first spirit, and offer it a Rook of Vis in compensation. At the end of the ceremony, the successful Initiate gains the Virtue Major Magical Focus (spirit magic), which covers all spells and effects which affect insubstantial spirits, ghosts, elementals and the like, using Rego (Form). Requisites are allowed, as are spells of other Techniques designed with a Rego requisite, so long as they affect insubstantial spirits of any Form.''
''[Initiation Total 21 (30 – 9 for previous Ordeal), Script Bonus 13: Required Virtue (3) + Place and Time (3) + Quest (3) + Quest (3) + Sacrifice treasure (1). The script requires a Presence + Principles Lore total of 8.]''

==Initiation of Spell Binding==

''Fortunata’s notes state that the Greek text she found for this Initiation was itself a translation of a much older script, and that the script teaches how to force a spirit to sustain a spell so the magic of the spell continues indefinitely. Fortunata obtained a perfect, natural,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Splitting Major Virtue Initiations==

''The texts that Fortunata used to gain power over spirits prescribed a two-stage approach, in which the Initiate undergoes an Ordeal in a preliminary Initiation (for a Minor Magical Focus), then a second Initiation sacrificing the Minor Virtue to gain the Major Magical Focus.''
''The bonus from the “previous Ordeal” reduces the Initiation Total needed for the Major Virtue, rather than increasing the Script Bonus, so makes the second script both easier to invent and vary. Such pairing is quite common for Virtues with both Major and Minor forms.''

==Virtue: Spell Binding==

''Spell binding allows access to a unique Ritual magic spell guideline, which allows a second spell and a spirit to be combined in a physical container so as to maintain the second spell indefinitely. The Ritual spell is cast on the object, then while the Ritual spell lasts, the second spell is cast. Even Momentary duration is long enough to cover the next round. The second spell must have a duration greater than Momentary, and cannot itself be a Ritual spell. The second spell functions normally, but if a spirit is forced into the container while the spell lasts, it must sustain the effect, and the spell lasts''
''while the spirit remains bound. The binding ends if dispelled or if the container is broken. The spirit must have something in common with the spell to be sustained, e.g. an elemental can sustain any spell of its element; and the spirit’s Might must at least equal the sustained spell’s level.''

===Sustain a Spell of (Form)===

''ReVi Gen R: Touch, D: Special, T: Ind, Ritual Req: Form or Forms of the spell to be sustained.''
''Allows another spell to be entwined with this spell and bound to a physical container. The base level of this spell must equal or exceed the level of the spell to be sustained. Casting of the sustained spell must begin while this spell lasts, or the next round for Momentary duration, after which the two spells are entwined and only end after both durations expire. If a spirit of Might at least equal to the sustained spell is forced into a container while the spell is still active, then the spell is sustained indefinitely while the spirit is bound. (Guideline level)''

|}
''bubble of glass, so fine it could be barely seen. She completed her Initiation on the night of the first new moon after midwinter’s night, in a deep cave system in the Alps, where she crawled through passages without light or magic to the heart of the caves. There she forced a spirit — still without using magic — to enter the ball and sustain a spell of light, the one spell she was allowed to cast. According to one tale, Fortunata had previously met and defeated the spirit, freeing it on the condition that it later perform for her; in another tale she simply bribed a ghost to help her; in a third she out-witted and tricked an elemental mountain spirit. Completion of the ceremony grants the Virtue Spell Binding, found in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 27. [Initiation Total 12 (18 – 6 for previous Ordeal), Script Bonus 6: Place and Time (3) + Quest (3). The script requires a Presence + Principles Lore total of 6, assuming it is the second Initiation after the Ordeal (Necessary Condition).]''

==Initiation of Hermetic Empowerment==

''The Greeks who translated the ancient script expanded the method of binding spirits to spells, to bind spirits to enchantments. Fortunata claims to have''
''adapted this to her Principles, binding spirits to Hermetic Ritual Effects in magical devices. This may be poetic license, and she may have use Hermetic Research to discover the binding, but attributed the method to “the ancients”. The script calls for the magus to enchant a magical device in a graveyard, using the essence (Vis) of ghosts for the enchantment. This requires that the magus find an abandoned graveyard, or else remain hidden in an occupied graveyard while he builds a laboratory and uses it. A graveyard typically has a Divine Aura of 4, fading over time once abandoned — but some ancient graveyards still exist and may be haunted by pagan spirits.''
''Christian graveyards are themselves a poor source of ghosts, as church rites prevent a ghost from returning or being summoned, but those unfortunates or criminals denied a church burial, buried in unconsecrated ground (perhaps even just outside the graveyard) may be hunted by the magus. Each Pawn of Vis enchanted into the device (at least 5 Pawns) must be provided by the destruction of a different ghost: one Pawn of the raw Vis left in the ghost’s remains is used in the enchantment and the rest offered as a sacrifice to the spirits in general. The device must be completed for the Initiation ceremony, but can be a Lesser Enchanted Device,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Temporary Laboratories==

''Creating a Basic Laboratory (ArM5, page 94) takes 1 season and 500 square feet of walled, roofed space, and imposes a -3 penalty to all Lab Totals. Covenants, chapter 9, provides more details on Laboratories, and how a magus might make a cheap laboratory for one task, perhaps in a confined space or with limited walls.''

|}

==Virtue: Hermetic Empowerment==

''The Virtue enables a magus to enchant Ritual effects into a device, linked to a bound spirit that is drained to provide the vis equivalent to power the Ritual magic. Each use of the Ritual effect drains points equal to the effect’s magnitude from the spirit’s permanent Might Score. The Effect Level cannot exceed twice the spirit’s Might Score, so the spirit cannot be completely drained. The magus must enchant a binding Effect into the device as well as one or more Ritual Effects to be powered by the binding.''

===Empowering Prison of the Declining Spirit===

''Re(Mu)Vi(Forms), Gen, Mystery enchantment Pen +0, uses per day as enchanted R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind The enchantment has requisites of all Forms of all Ritual Effects to be powered by the Empowering Prison. Effects with other Forms cannot be powered by this Prison. The base level of the enchantment must equal or exceed twice the Might of the spirit that''
''will be bound; uses per day limits the number of Ritual Effects which can be powered each day. An enchanted device may have more than one Empowering Prison, to bind more spirit Might, or for to cover additional Forms. Once a spirit is commanded to enter the device and so bound to an Empowering Prison, it is trapped so long as the enchantment remains, even if its Might falls below a useful level. The spirit is freed if the Prison is disenchanted or the device is shattered. While bound to the Empowering Prison, the spirit cannot use its Might for any purpose other than resisting spells cast on it, and cannot leave the prison. It can use powers with no Might cost, so many spirits can perceive the world and converse with those nearby. Draining Might Score from a spirit is agonizing, and many spirits are driven insane by the process. Since they cannot be fully drained by this process, breaking the device is likely to release a furious, maddened spirit, not caring that the breaker is their kind liberator. (Guideline level)''
''opened and enchanted in one season, if the magus is capable of this. The Initiation ceremony takes place on any quarter-day (the changes of season), in the graveyard used for enchantment. The magus builds a pyre of rare woods and incense, which must burn from dawn until dusk, in which the enchanted device is burnt and destroyed, and the visible smoke of the fire marks the success of the ceremony. Completion of the Initiation grants the Virtue Hermetic Empowerment, see The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 64. [Initiation Total 18, Script Bonus 9: Place and Time (3) + Quest (3) + Sacrifice of value (1) + Sympathy (2). If performed as the third Initiation after the Ordeal (Necessary Condition), the Initiation Total is reduced to 15.]''

==Adventure: Finding Fortune==

''A saga may introduce Fortunata gradually, using one or more of her texts, perhaps found overlooked on a back shelf, or in some treasure chest. A text on Principles Lore and an Initiation Script may be the teaser that draws others into actively seeking more.''

==Précis==

''The adventure takes a loose form, to be played out over a number of sessions rather than in linear form:''
''•	 The player magi discover something of Fortunata, and begin a search. A number of story starters are provided: some provide direct evidence (such as texts or witness accounts), others are more indirect (an adventure crosses paths with Fortunata’s history).''
''•	 The magi seek Fortunata’s island, which is both hidden and largely forgotten. A direct search is likely to be fruitless, but story starters suggest ways that others may provide leads, sometimes inadvertently. •	 Approaching the island, the group are struck by a magical storm driven by a powerful guardian spirit, their vessel is broken and they are scattered and cast up onto the shore of the island. •	 On the island they are beset by a number of strange spirits. Magi are protected by their Parma Magica from direct assault (though many spirits have indirect attacks), while grogs separated from their magi may be driven mad by the confusion wrought by multiple assaults. •	 Finally some reach Fortunata’s mansion, which appears abandoned and in poor condition. Only those who search carefully will find Fortunata’s library and laboratory, and the treasure stored within.''

==Story Starter: In a Locked Box==

''The characters come across a locked, metal box. They may have just completed some adventure, and found it among the expected “treasure”; or maybe lurking in a corner of the library of a long-established covenant; or offered by a traveling merchant who bought it in hopes of opening it and now wishes to sell it on. The box bears signs of salt-water corrosion, but is tightly sealed. Closer inspection reveals that the “lock” is cosmetic, and there is no way short of magic to open the box. If the box is opened, it contains a number of books:''
''Principles for a Better Life (tractatus on Principles Lore, Quality 11, Latin) Heroes of Greece (tractatus on Area Lore: Ancient Greece, Quality 6, Ancient Greek)''
''Heroes of Greece – revised (tractatus on Area Lore: Ancient Greece, Quality 8, Latin, with additional notes) The Myth of Andros and the Tree (Initiation Script requiring a forgotten cult Lore, Script Bonus 12, Ancient Greek) Andros And the Tree (a Principles Lore Initiation Script for Spirit Familiar, Script Bonus 12, Latin)''
''Andros and the Tree begins innocently enough as a myth in which an un-named hero defeats a monster and frees a maiden trapped in a tree. There are notes and an appendix which appear to be instructions for playing out the myth “for real.” An Intelligence + Magic Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12, or Intelligence + any Mystery Cult Lore against an Ease factor of 6, reveals that this is an Initiation Script for some Mystery Cult. (See this''
''chapter, Initiation of Spirit Familiar.) Principles for a Better Life includes a set of “principles” by which one might live a better life, purifying oneself by regular observances such as rising with the sun and washing in cold water, but are actually an Organization Lore for a Mystery Cult (though there is no physical organization, just the Lore). Common phrasing and style suggest that the author of the principles and the translator of the Greek myth are one and the same. Heroes of Greece relates tales and events from long ago. Some might consider it Magic Lore (or even Faerie Lore) but the style of writing is mainly descriptive of landscape and people. The author and translator was the maga Fortunata, famous for her extensive knowledge of spirits and their binding. The revised Heroes of Greece mentions that''
''the author made her home among the Greek islands; someone searching for that might find clues among these notes.''

==Story Starter: A House In Venice==

''One of the player characters, or a close contact, purchases a house in Venice. Forgotten by many, this was once owned by Fortunata, and was a house used for contact with Redcaps. Any magus will know of the existence of “a house in Venice” on a successful roll of Intelligence + Order of Hermes Lore against an Ease Factor of 6, or Intelligence + Mercere Lore against an Ease Factor of 3. A Redcap will realize that this is that particular house if his roll succeeds against an Ease Factor of 9. The house has been empty for a while, and been sold cheaply. It is haunted by the ghost of Lucio, an elderly servant of Fortunata who remained dedicated long after her disappearance, until he died of a gruesome plague around 1130. Lucio is not hostile, but has inadvertently frightened off previous owners. Lucio speaks an old dialect of Venetian, and will converse with any who can see him and not flee. He talks about the life and times of old Venice, Fortunata when she visited and worked on her books and letters, and his gruesome illness and death. He knows that Fortunata used to hide papers behind a wall panels and under floorboards. Searchers may find a number of personal papers and letters by or to Fortunata of Jerbiton. Among the papers is a partial catalog of texts in her library, and a collection of correspondence with contacts on a number of small islands regarding small purchases or personal favors — the astute reader may surmise that these islands lie close together and probably close to Fortunata’s island. (Roll Intelligence + Mediterranean Lore against an Ease Factor of 9.)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Where is Fortunata’s Island?==

''There are many small islands in the eastern Mediterranean: in the Tyrrhenian Sea west of Italy, the Adriatic Sea between Italy and Dalmatia, the Ionian sea between Italy and Greece, and the Aegean Sea between Greece and Turkey, or even among the Balearic Isles of the western Mediterranean. This book leaves the exact loca''
''tion (and governing Tribunal) open for saga flexibility. To avoid re-stating this throughout the text, the Ionian Sea is singled out, which would place the island along the western coast of Greece, on the threshold between the Roman and Theban Tribunals. Where the text says “Ionian Lore”, it means “use the Area Lore of the saga’s chosen island-location.”''

==Accumulating Geographic Evidence==

''The storyguide may wish to have the player characters gradually accumulate knowledge of the island through study of Fortunata’s Principles Lore, hint by hint, rather than simply “finding a map in a chest.” However, her writings cover her way of life rather than her life history, so they are not particularly good for geography. After any season’s study of Fortunata’s personal writings make a test of Intelligence + Mediterranean Lore against''
''an Ease Factor of 18, or Intelligence + Ionian Islands Lore against an Ease Factor of 15. If successful, a hunch suggests where the characters might search to find the legendary library and treasures. On a Botch, a wild goose chase is suggested, but a visit to the location clears up the confusion, and later study may suggest the correct location. (Note that the actual location is saga dependent, among the many small Mediterranean islands.)''

|}

==Story Starter: Chrétien the Roamer==

''Chrétien is a disreputable-looking monk, tall and perpetually tousle-haired. He has traveled extensively across much of Europe, particularly the southern Mediterranean coasts, and also across much of England. He is a great storyteller, and apparently has lived through a great many disasters (and yet is here to tell the tale — thank you for the ale, sir!), and seen a great many fantastical sights. Among the disasters he has lived through, he was caught in a tempest while sailing from Venice. The ship was wrecked and he was the sole survivor cast upon the sandy shore of a small island. According to Chrétien, there were many strange sounds and sights upon the island, and many airy spirits or ghosts. He lived on crabs and drank from streams, until he gathered enough driftwood to make a raft and escape. He may be able to recall enough of the storm-wracked race of the ship to assist interested magi to locate Fortunata’s Island. The precise part of the Mediterranean where he sailed should be adjusted according to this saga’s location for the island. Chrétien has extensive knowledge of Church Lore, Dominion Lore, Magic Lore, and Area Lore of England and the Mediterranean, and can answer questions on these as the storyguide sees fit — his knowledge should act to further the story rather than as an all-round guide to these areas.''

==Foreshadowing==

''The story of Cupressa, now long dead, overlaps that of Fortunata in ways that may draw in the players, whether they are already seeking Fortunata, or learn of her through these stories. Cupressa was a witch from Algiers whose dark practices caused her to be''
''banished from that city. She left, pregnant with her beast-son Monocaudus (see this chapter, Monocaudus), cursing the city with seven years’ failed harvests. Cupressa then used black arts to bind the fair spirit Lucida and claim an island in the Mediterranean where she raised her son. She died of old age, but the immortal Monocaudus lived on. Fortunata later came to the island, freed Lucida and mastered the foul beast Monocaudus, and took the island for herself. Cupressa was not alone, but part of a tradition of witches similar to the Witches of Thessaly (see Realms of power: Infernal, page 140), and the witches of that tradition still revere the great Cupressa. Story starters related to Cupressa form further links to Fortunata.''

==Story Starter: The Witches’ Quests==

''The heirs to Cupressa’s tradition may still be found in Algiers and the lands around. They believe that the treasures of Fortunata are treasures stolen from Cupressa, and so rightfully theirs. They seek Fortunata’s island still, and have gradually spread into southern Europe gathering information. The witches have encountered Hermetic magi before and are very wary of them, with their Parma Magica and powerful spells, so work indirectly through mundane agents who remain ignorant of their true purpose or origin. Player companions or grogs may be approached to sell information they have, or to seek information for an agent. Alternately, they may be fed information letting them to search for and find the island themselves and be first to breach its defenses, allowing the witches to follow and attack while they are weakened. In another scenario, the witches may be protective of their search, and feed disinformation to others, so that they are sent on false quests.''

==Story Starter: Fortunata the Thessalian?==

''The elderly Federo of Bonisagus has studied the life of Fortunata and amassed a great deal of information about her — much of it sadly distorted. He has convinced himself that Fortunata was herself a witch of Thessaly: sodalis, rival and ultimately victor over the witch Cupressa of Algiers. He offers to reward a junior magus who will follow up his leads and confirm his beliefs. He has plans for expeditions to Algiers, to Thessaly, and to various Mediterranean islands where he believes she resided. Unfortunately, Federo has been fed false information by the Witches, and his quests are misguided, though they may reveal actual truths as they are followed.''

==Story Starter: Viea’s Legacy==

''As told in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 6, Trianoma and her sister Viea were sorceresses from Thessaly who woke a dragon that guided them to the cave where they found Bonisagus the Founder. Viea later quarreled with her sister and fled, some time before the founding of the Order of Hermes. Viea does not figure large in the subsequent history of the Order, though a few speculate as to her fate. Pullatus of Flambeau is obsessed with both Viea and dragons, and believes that Viea founded a lineage of her own, outside the Order, using knowledge stolen from the Founder, and that Trianoma and Viea dealt with dragons. He has learned that Cupressa spawned a son, who he believes to be half-dragon, and Pullatus now speculates that Cupressa and Viea were one and the same, and if so, the legendary Hermetic maga Fortunata must have occupied an island once home to a near-Founder of the Order. He''
''wishes to track down the island and learn as much as he can about Viea-or-Cupressa and her son Monocaudus. His own research into reproducing the ideas and magics of Viea keep him tied to his laboratory, so he seeks fellow magi to join him on his quest. He can offer spells for dealing with dragons, texts on Magic Lore (Dragons), and a book of Mediterranean Lore specializing in the area to be searched.''

==Story Starter: A Vengeful Father==

''Long ago, the Witch Cupressa gave birth to a magical half-beast son. Legend tells of the mother, and the son, and the maga who defeated them, but not of the father. That father was a being called Omaion The Serpent, a great magical snake some 30 feet long, with penetrat''
''ing venom, leathery skin that turns any weapon, and the ability to walk as a beautiful man, seductive and lithe. He makes his home in a cave in a remote waste in Turkey, though in man-form he may wander far afield. He has had little (if any) contact with Hermetic magi in the past. Those who investigate Cupressa or Fortunata may find their paths cross with his: he is likely to be neutral at first, curious if offered information about Cupressa, then furious when he discovers what befell her and his son. If careless, the player characters may become the immediate focus of his wrath, but more likely he will fly off to pursue Fortunata. When he learns that Fortunata is no longer available as the target of his wrath, but was representative and typical of an Order of magi, he will blame the Order of Hermes as a whole, and begin a war against magi. The players must then face the wrath of their sodales at Tribunal regarding the clause in the Hermetic Oath: “I will not endanger the Order through my actions …”''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Alternative Versions of Omaion==

''According to the saga, it may be more appropriate to use an alternative version of Omaion. Legends tell contradictory tales, and a saga may choose another to be the true version:''

===Omaion the Infernal===

''A demon taking the form of a jetskinned handsome man who resides in a fortified mansion at the heart of the old quarter in Algiers, surrounded by beautiful servants and apparently abundant wealth. Monocaudus’s beast''
''form is then the interaction of Infernal and Magical blood in fleshly form.''

===Omaion the Sorcerer===

''This is one of the darker fae of Greece, who broods in dark forest glades. He has the head and tail of a dragon, the chest of a lion, the arms of a man and the nether parts of a goat, as though he were drawn from a mixture of old myths of Greek monsters. Any who imply such about his origin risk his immediate wrath.''

==Tempestas: a Spirit of Storms==

''Magic Might: 35 (Auram) Season: Summer Characteristics: Cun +1, Per +3, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex –2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit, Improved Characteristics (x2), Keen Vision; Fury Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Raise the Tempest), Focus Power (Crafter of Weather), Improved Might (x15), Improved Powers (reduce Might cost); Slow Power (x2) Personality Traits: Stormy +3 Abilities: Awareness 5 (searching), Concentration 5 (maintain pow''
''ers), Mediterranean Lore 3 (waters) Powers: Crafter of Weather, 1-5 points, Init -3, Auram: by spending Might points equal to the equivalent spell magnitude, Tempestas can create any weather related (non-Ritual) effect up to level 25. This is a Slow Power, taking an extra round to prepare. Raise the Tempest, 0 points, Init -6, Auram  R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Group  Calls up a storm, 10 miles across, of hurricane intensity, similar to the spell Wrath of Whirling Winds and Water. The storm builds up over several minutes, and dissipates shortly after the Power duration ends.  CrAu 50 (Base 5, +3 Sight, +1''
''Conc, +2 Group, +3 Size): Greater Power (50 levels, -5 Might from Improved Powers). Vis: 4 Auram, in storm spume. Appearance: Mundanely appearing as a great storm, but those with Second Sight or equivalent may see a huge disembodied blue head with bulging cheeks, blowing continuously. (Size applies to his head, which is the size of a man, not to the size of the storm.)''
''Note that many weather effects are indirect (like capsizing boats), but Tempestas has a high enough Penetration (35) for Tempest that direct effects like lighting or rain may even affect magi.''

|}

==Fortunata’s Island==

''The island is hidden by obscurity rather than specific disguise or magic — there are a great many small islands scatter around the Ionian Sea, and on into the Mediterranean itself. Should the unwary stumble across the island, they may find it hazardous — but the prepared visitor can seek Fortunata’s Library. The exact location should be adjusted to suit the players’ saga. Although some of the scattered writings of Fortunata provide clues to its location, or even encourage others to strive to find it, she overlooked mentioning any of the guardians, so they may come as something of a surprise to the unwary.''

==Bound Spirits==

''A number of spirits around the island are bound by command spells. The command spells themselves are made permanent by means of Spell Binding. (See this chapter, Initiation of Spell Binding.) For example, Fortunata bound Tempestas, spirit of the storm, with a Coerce a Spirit of Auram spell (ReAu 15, R: Touch,''
''D: Diam, T: Ind (Base 5 +1 Touch, +1 Diam)), sustained by a Sustain A Spell of Auram (ReVi(Au) 20 R: Touch, D: Special, T: Ind, Ritual (Base effect (target spell level)) and a Might 20 Auram spirit. Fortunata would have cast the Coerce spell while in the summoned presence of Tempestas — subsequently returned to the skies, but still bound by the Coerce spell — and also commanded a lesser spirit to enter a container object. If the container object is broken, the Sustain spell will break, the Coerce spell end, and Tempestas may fly free. The Spell Binding command takes much less Vis and time to prepare than a Constant Effect Coerce a Spirit of Auram device effect, especially as the device effect must include extra levels for Penetration to overcome the target’s Might. This way Fortunata used her own castspell penetration, and a mere four pawns of Vis for the Spell Binding Ritual. Those spirits bound to serve and obey are all tied in this manner, and the spell containers are gathered in the Library. The Coerce spells used are such that possession of the container grants command of the servant; however, if the container is broken, the Sustain spell is broken, the Coerce spell ends, and both spirits are released. In general, if an enchantment or''
''spell of command is already active, ruling a being, then a countermanding spell must exceed the level of the original, and also penetrate the Magic Resistance of the spirit. In the example above, this applies both to the spirit Tempestas (bound by a level 15 Coerce, Might 35) and the anonymous Airy Spirit tied into the Sustain ritual (bound by a level 20 Sustain Ritual, Might 15). It is often easiest to end a binding by locating the container object and breaking that.''

==A Tempestuous Approach==

''The island is not obviously distinguished, at a distance, from any of the other myriad small islands that clutter the coastal regions of the Mediterranean; it is so small and undistinguished that if it has a mundane name, only local fisher folk know it, and avoid it as an area with bad weather. The approach to this island is protected by Tempestas, a powerful spirit of storms. If a ship or swimmer approaches the island, Tempestas raises a storm sufficient to drive away or wreck any vessel not protected by powerful magic. It is likely that those who come sailing up ex''
''pecting a quiet anchorage will find themselves cast upon the shore with minimal equipment, separated from each other. Tempestas is bound to serve as guardian by a Spell Binding in a carved agate head in Fortunata’s library.''

==Geography of the Island==

''The island is small — a mile or two across, edged by sandy beaches where the wind sweeps in, dunes, and dune grass. Driftwood often appears on the beaches, blown in by the many storms. The island lies low, rising to some 100 to 200 feet high at the center, where gorse, thorn bushes and olive trees displace the dune grass. Several springs rise in the interior and give rise to freshwater streams which run down to the beaches through gullies cutting through the dunes. Freshwater mussels and small fish may be found in the streams; there are also crabs which hide in creeks, and sea fish for those who risk the storms. Those cast upon the shore may freely wander the beaches, though most''
''find them featureless, and one can easily become uncertain of the distance covered, and whether tracks are one’s own or those of another. Imagines, spirits of illusion, wander the island playing tricks with sight and sound, while the ghosts of drowned sailors sometimes march along the beaches. The most significant single feature on the wind-swept barrens is a house built in the manner of a Roman villa: not a case of antiquity preserved, but a reconstruction by the maga Fortunata, modeled on the Jerbiton villas of Valnastium. The villa (or rather an image of the villa) appears from some vantage points, but with the low lie of the land, soon falls behind the dunes. Magi attempting to cast Sight-range spells will soon discover that they see an image rather than the real villa.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vis Sources==

''The island supported a powerful maga, and provided her with vis, though she also harvested vis elsewhere. If the magi are interested in Fortunata’s resources, and spend the time to study and investigate the island, there are sources for about 20 pawns of vis per year: Rego, Muto, Aquam, Auram, Imaginem, Mentem, Vim.''

|}

==Lucida, an Airy Spirit==

''Lucida is the chief spirit of the island, commanding the other spirits against the day when Fortunata might return. When Fortunata and Lucida first met, Lucida had been trapped in a cleft in a huge boulder by the witch Cupressa and her monstrous get Monocaudus. Fortunata freed and befriended Lucida, and later returned, defeated and bound the monster Monocaudus in revenge. Their relationship was as close and intimate as human and spirit can be, and since the loss of Fortunata, Lucida remains grieving the lost maga — selfbound to her memory.''
''Magic Might: 25 (Mentem) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +3, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: 0 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit, Second Sight; Dutybound (Fortunata’s memory) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities:''
''Focus Power (Ghost Touch), Focus Power (Crafter of Illusion), Greater Power (Control Human), Greater Power (Greater Eidolon), Greater Power (Command Spirit), Personal Power (x2) (Travel), Improved Abilities (x4), Improved Characteristics (x4) Personality Traits: Airy +3, Brave +2, Grieving +2 Abilities: Awareness 3 (alertness), Bargain 3 (favors), Concentration 4 (maintain powers), Faerie Lore 1 (glamor), Folk Ken 1 (spirits), Greek 3 (old dialects), Guile 2 (lie to authority), Intrigue 2 (scheming), Island Lore 4 (inhabitants), Italian 3 (old dialects), Latin 5 (hermetic use), Leadership 1 (grogs), Magic Lore 3 (spirits), Magic Theory 4 (help in lab), Mediterranean Lore 1 (geography), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (past magi), Second Sight 4 (spirits) Powers: Command Spirit, 0 points, Init 0 Mentem  R: Voice, D: Moon, T: Ind  If this power penetrates, Lucida''
''exerts direct command over the target disembodied spirit, which must carry out commands to the best of its ability. The target may try to break free whenever asked to do something complex, dangerous or against their nature. (Make an Intelligence + any appropriate Personality Trait against an Ease Factor of 14 (9 + Magnitude of Might).  ReMe 30 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +3 Moon), Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost) Control Human, 1 point, Init –1, Mentem  R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind  If this power penetrates, the spirit exerts direct command over the target, who carries out commands to the best of his or her ability. The target may try to break free whenever asked to do something complex, dangerous or against his nature. (Make an Intelligence + any appropriate Personality Trait against an Ease Factor of 14 (9 + Magnitude of Might.)  ReMe 35 (Base 20, +2 Voice, +1''
''To enter the interior of the island and try to reach the villa is to become surrounded by the sights and sounds of the island, and perhaps to encounter the guardians. The island as a whole has a Magic aura of 4, and Fortunata’s villa has a Magic aura of 6.''

==Fortunata’s Villa==

''Fortunata designed her home to be her idea of a large Roman villa, although it included a Hermetic Laboratory and other innovations. The villa has a central range (about 120 feet or 40 paces long) with two stories and two longer side ranges of storeand work-rooms, running 150 feet south; it is''
''shaded to keep out the hot summer sun, with fireplaces inside to heat rooms during winter’s chill or clear starry nights. Inside it has been poorly maintained and cleaned, and the straw strewn around is old and stale, despite Fortunata’s binding on Monocaudus that he clean and maintain the place — he slacks from his work whenever he can. Only a few rooms are used — the rest are shuttered and damp, as Monocaudus no longer bothers to build fires to warm them. Despite this neglect, candle flames burn all through the building, wherever Fax (see this chapter, Fax) touches. The candles are reflected in the many mirrors that hang on the walls; rooms are still furnished but the contents are covered by protective drapes which Monocaudus has allowed to be''
''come moldy, and spider webs cover everything undisturbed. The high Magic aura (6) has warped many of the contents — the mirrors do not reflect truly, and shadows move of their own accord. The spiders are warped too, and many are alarmingly large — legs nearly a hand-span, and bodies larger than a man’s thumb.''

===The Villa Inhabitants===

''The Imagines, spirits of Illusion that haunt the island, such as Error and Cantus (see this chapter, Cantus) often congregate in the villa, enjoying the aura and teasing the mirrors; strangers draw attention as play-things. Lucida wanders the villa, passing''

==Lucida, an Airy Spirit (cont’d)==

''Conc), Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost) Crafter of Illusion, 1-5 points, Init –2, Imaginem: Lucida can duplicate any Creo or Rego Imaginem spell up to level 25 by spending 1 Might per Magnitude of equivalent spell. (Focus Power). Greater Eidolon, 0 points, Init +1, Imaginem  R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Ind  Lucida can create an illusory form that is visible and audible to others, anywhere Lucida can see. The form is that of an apparent youth in loose robes, with short white hair, and a high clear voice. The image moves and speaks as directed (even out of sight, or if Lucida Travels elsewhere), and permits Lucida to see and hear what takes place around the image; it lasts until Lucida has no further use for it.  Within the villa, Lucida often makes the image appear inside one of the many mirrors.  Cr(In)Im 30 (Base 2, +3 Sight, +1 Conc, +2 move at command, +1''
''intricacy, +1 Intellego requisite)  Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might, +1 Init) Ghost Touch, 1-5 points, Init –2, Terram: Move objects that are not held by another or fastened down. For 1 Might point, a maximum of 5 pounds can be moved; each additional Might point doubles this weight limit. Lucida cannot use or throw objects as weapons. The power lasts until the object is released by Lucida. (Focus Power) Travel, 1 points, Init +0, Mentem.  R: Special, D: Mom, T: Ind  This power lets Lucida “summon” her spirit to any place she can see, is familiar with, or has an Arcane Connection to, in a manner similar to a maga’s ReCo travel spells.  ReMe 35 (Base 15, +4 Special (equivalent to Arcane)), Personal Power (x2) (35 levels, -3 Might) Vis: 5 Mentem, in reflections. Appearance: Lucida has no mortal form, and is rarely in any one place but spreads attention across the''
''island. One with Second Sight or similar, who came into the actual presence of the spirit, would see a figure similar to the Eidolon image.  Lucida’s gender is unclear — Lucida discourages speculation about what is under the robes, but does use a name with feminine form in Latin, so perhaps “she” applies.''
''Lucida prefers the description “Airy Spirit”, but scholars of Magic Lore would disagree — Lucida is much too powerful to be one of those minor spirits. Theorists might speculate that Lucida is really a ghost, or even a Faerie who has migrated into the Magic Realm; Lucida may know the truth but not be telling, or Lucida may truly have forgotten. Note that when a magus dies, a normal (mortal) animal familiar dies too, but immortal beings such as spirits, or certain special animals, do not die; instead they are released, with the loss of Bond powers.''
''through the library, laboratory, and Fortunata’s bedroom, and chastising Monocaudus wherever he can be found. Monocaudus lurks in the kitchen by the fire, or resentfully makes fires or token gestures of cleaning; he spends much of the day wandering outdoors on the pretext of gathering firewood or food.''

===The Villa Graveyard===

''There is a small graveyard alongside the villa, where the remains of the dead are held in stone urns. Many of these are pagan burials from elsewhere, though, which have been re-interred here so that their ghosts may be conveniently summoned. Next to these there is a spring and a pool with cypress trees, and a false doorway into the north wall of the villa. This necromanteion is sheltered by an arch and an iron gate; on the inside are''
''mosaics depicting Hades. The structure was once used in ceremonies to contact the dead.''

===The Villa Rooms===

''Most rooms stand open — entrance hall, kitchen, and stores, and the many store-, functionand bed-rooms, including Fortunata’s own. A corridor snakes through the building, interrupted by some of the rooms; many rooms have connecting doors. External doorways and those of larger rooms are decorated with pillars molded with Hermetic motifs. The finest rooms, such as Fortunata’s bedchamber and dining room, have mosaic floors and painted plaster walls, according to designs from classical Rome recounted by summoned ghosts. Sadly, many of these have been damaged by time and careless treatment.''

===Fortunata’s Laboratory and Library===

''Her laboratory is hidden in the core of the building, surrounded by other rooms, with neither door nor window — magic is needed to enter. The layout of the other rooms is such that the hidden chamber is not obvious, though careful study or mapping will reveal the missing space. Monocaudus is no help, never having entered; only Lucida knows the secret. The laboratory also contains her library, and is surprisingly sparse — much of her work took place outdoors among spirits. If cleaned up, and perishable stocks replaced, it could be used as a standard laboratory.''

===Fortunata’s Books===

''The library holds the full set of texts written by Fortunata on her Prin''

==Monocaudus, a Magical Servant==

''Fortunata defeated the ancient serpent Monocaudus, enemy of Lucida, and bound him as a slave, commanding him to perform the most menial tasks. He still lurks around the old villa, and makes token observance of his duties (such as collecting firewood), as he fears that Fortunata may yet return and punish him for his idleness. He resents his general condition and his binding, and curses Fortunata and Lucida to any who will listen — chiefly the minor spirits of the island, though they understand little of what he says. He is often chastised and browbeaten by Lucida, but to little effect. Lucida can only remind Monocaudus of the ancient binding words, and of the future punishments which Fortunata will surely inflict, but has no magical power to force him to obey. Such haranguing only fuels his resentment.''
''Magic Might: 25 (Animal) Characteristics (Man): Int 0, Per +1, Pre –1, Com +1, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik 2 Characteristics (Serpent): Int 0, Per +1, Pre –1, Com +1, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: +1 (Man), +2 (Serpent) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal, Size +2 (free) or Large (free); Animal Ken, Improved Characteristics (×3), Improved Soak (x2), Puissant Brawl, Sharp Ears, Tough, Wilderness Sense; Magical Monster, Monstrous Appearance, Plagued by Supernatural Entity (Lucida); Disfigured (Tattooed all over) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gift of Speech, Personal Power (Human Form), Improved Abilities (x4), Improved Attack (x2), Improved Damage (x2), Improved Defense, Improved Might (x5), Personal Power (Human Form);''
''Slow Power (Human Form) Personality Traits: Monstrous +3, Resentful +3, Bitter +2 Combat: Dodge (Man): Init: +2, Attack –, Defense +9, Damage – Fist (Man*): Init: +2, Attack +14, Defense +12, Damage +8 Bite (Man*): Init: +2, Attack +9, Defense +9, Damage +2 Dodge (Serpent): Init: +0, Attack –, Defense +7, Damage – Fist (Serpent): Init: +0, Attack +14, Defense +10, Damage +12 Bite (Serpent): Init: +0, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage +6 Constrict (Serpent):** Init: +0, Attack +12, Defense +7, Damage – * 	 Monocaudus’ “Man Form” is an active magical power, and so his attacks must penetrate Magic Resistance. In his natural serpent form, he does not need to penetrate, which may surprise the unwary magus, thinking it an assumed form. **	 Constriction is based on the grappling rules (ArM5 page 174). If he wraps his tail around a victim and maintains the constriction, the victim suffers Deprivation from lack of air, while Monocaudus is free to strike or bite the victim or another. Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties (Man): –1 (1-6), –3 (7-12), –5 (13-18), Incapacitated (19-14) Wound Penalties (Serpent): –1 (1-7), –3 (8-14), –5 (15-21), Incapacitated (22-28) Abilities: Animal Ken 4 (serpents), Awareness 1 (alertness), Athletics 4 (run), Brawl 5 (fist), Carouse 3 (drunken stories), Chirurgy 3 (crude tools), Concentration 2 (when scolded), Greek 4 (curses), Guile 5 (elaborate lies), Intrigue 2''
''(malicious schemes), Island Lore 4 (history), Italian 2 (sailors), Latin 4 (orders), Magic Lore 1 (creatures), Mediterranean Lore 1 (nearby islands), Wilderness Sense 4 (islands) Powers: Human Form, 1 point, Init -2, Corpus: Monocaudus may (and is generally forced to) assume human form, which lasts for Sun duration or until he wills it to end. His human form loses the Serpent’s Size +2 (and the Str +4, Qik –2 that brings), but has the Large Virtue (Size +1, but no characteristic modifier). Vis: 5 Animal, in his tattoos. Appearance: Monocaudus’ true form is that of a great serpent with the arms, chest and head of a man. His skin is not scaled like a snake, but rather covered in tattoos. He is bound by sustained magical command to serve Fortunata and to assume human form, the better to perform as a household slave.''
''In the long absence of Fortunata, her memory faded and Monocaudus may attempt to temporarily ignore her commands, either rebelling or assuming his natural form. To do this he must roll Stamina + appropriate Personality Trait against an Ease Factor of 12. The curious consequence of his magically enforced human form is that attacks by his human form must penetrate Magic Resistance, but in his natural, monstrous form he does not need to penetrate. The unwary magus may be surprised by this. Lulled by their success at ignoring his fists, they witness his magical transformation and assume they can still resist his blows. [Monocaudus is designed using the design rules for “Dragons As Characters”, see Realms of Power: Magic, page 74, including the free base Size +2, and the constriction attack.]''
''ciples Lore: four tractatus and her grand summa, and nine Initiation Scripts (described elsewhere in this chapter) based on Principles Lore:''
''Principles for a Better Life (tractatus on Principles Lore, Quality 11) Principles of Life as a Magus (tractatus on Principles Lore, Quality 11) Principles of Power (tractatus on Principles Lore, Quality 11) Principles of the Spirit (tractatus on Principles Lore, Quality 11) De Disciplinae Fortunatae (“Fortunata’s Principles”) (summa on Principles Lore, level 4, Quality 11) The Mastery of Principles (Initiation of Puissant Principles Lore) The Myth of Andros and the Tree (Initiation of Spirit Familiar) Plutonic Beginnings (Initiation of Minor Magical Focus (commanding spirits)) The Myth of Aerius and Pluto (Initiation of Major Magical Focus (spirit magic)) The Myth of Heiro and the Cave (Initiation of Spell Binding) The Myth of Heiro and the Haunted Graveyard (Initiation of Hermetic Empowerment)''
''On A Pilgrimage To Jerusalem (Initiation of Sense Holiness & Unholiness) The Myth of Aquila’s Eyes (Initiation of Improved Characteristics (Perception))''
''She translated a number of ancient texts, so originals and translations are found here, plus books by Fortunata:''
''Heroes of Olympos (tractatus on Magic Lore, Quality 7, Latin by Julius of''
''Nicomedia) Heroes and Gods (tractatus on Magic Lore, Quality 8, Greek, by Polymos) Necronomicus (tractatus on Necronomicus Lore — a forgotten cult, Quality 8, Latin, anonymous) Piraeon (tractatus on Piraeon Lore — a forgotten cult, Quality 9, Greek, anonymous, plus Latin translation by Fortunata of Jerbiton) Cult of the Wanderer: revised edition, (tractatus on Cult of the Wanderer Lore — a forgotten cult, Quality 9, (lost Greek original, anonymous), Latin translation by Fortunata of Jerbiton) Heroes of Rome (tractatus on Magic Lore, Quality 8, and tractatus on Mediterranean Lore (history), Quality 8, Latin, by Caius of Mediolanum) Ionian Isles (tractatus on Mediterranean Lore, Quality 11, by Fortunata of Jerbiton) The Names of Ghosts (tractatus on Magic Lore, Quality 11, by Fortunata of Jerbiton). This book includes lists of the names of ghosts Fortunata summoned, and the abilities they had which she found useful (such as the language they spoke and read).''
''There are also conventional Hermetic texts, including both summae and tractatus on Magic Theory and the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Monocaudus’s Incitements==

''Monocaudus loathes and detests Lucida, and he has twisted his stories so that Lucida is now the cause of his torments, and the usurper of “his” island. His stories often contradict each other, but circle round a few themes. He will make false claims, such as that Lucida has imprisoned the other spirits of the island, and uses the mistress’s books to evil ends. Another favorite tales is that of his dam, Cupressa, and how she raised and nurtured him, and how the cruel Mistress Fortunata fought with and slew the kindly Cupressa.''
''Note that since Monocaudus does not know the nature of the enchantment that binds him to service, he spuriously attributes his servitude to the commands of Lucida, rather than Fortunata’s device. He will go so far as to try to recruit visitors to support his “righteous cause”, asking them to act against Lucida and to free him. Lucida’s treatment of Monocaudus may appear to support this story, though in truth he deserves much of what he receives, and exaggerates overmuch.''

===Monocaudus’ Binding===

''Monocaudus is bound more firmly than other spirits on the island. There is a tiny topaz, enchanted specifically to control him, and embedded in his chest, where it can renew its effect if ever suppressed temporarily. This was created to compel him forever, as a Quest for Initiation.''

===Monocaudus’ Binding===

''ReMe 55 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind Pen +32, constant use While under this enchantment, Monocaudus must obey Fortunata, or her continuing commands, or any''
''deputized agent of Fortunata. (Base 20, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Modifications +4 levels constant, +16 levels Penetration)''
''Note that Monocaudus is guileful and very hard to persuade as to the genuine agency of any new command — even from Lucida; he also sometimes talks himself out of the duties he has been ordered to, such as maintaining the villa, or at the very least he shirks his duty. Even while Fortunata was here, she had to remind and chastise him for slacking. It may be possible, if difficult, to masquerade as Fortunata well enough to claim rulership of Monocaudus.''

|}
''Forms of Imaginem, Ignem, Terram, Mentem, Vim, and all five Techniques. Her books also include Lab Texts for a number of common spells, in particular:''
''Coerce the Spirit of (Form), Re(Form) 20, R: Voice, D: Diam, T: Ind. Make a disembodied spirit of (Form) obey the caster so long as she can coerce it with threats. The library has Lab Texts to Coerce the Spirit of Earth (Te), Fire (Ig), Illusion (Im), and to Coerce Ghosts (Me). (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Diam) Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ArM5, p.152) ReMe 40, R: Arcane, D: Conc, T: Ind, Ritual. Calls up a person’s ghost, You must be on the spot where they died or have the corpse. You can summon any ghost which is actively haunting the area you are in, if you know its full name — but a non-Ritual summoning spell can also summon such a spirit. (Base 15, +4 Arcane, +1 Conc) Summon the Spirit of (Form), Re(Form) 40, R: Arcane, D: Conc, T: Ind. Calls a disembodied (Form) spirit if the magus has an Arcane Connection or knows the non-magical name of the spirit. Elemental material of the type associated with the spirit serves as an Arcane Connection to any (Form) spirit which resides in the area. The library has Lab Texts to Summon the Spirit Of Earth (Te), Fire (Ig), Illusion (Im), and to Summon the Spirit of Man (Me). Summon the Spirit of Man is a lesser, nonritual version of Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ArM5, p.152), which can only affect a ghost which is actively haunting something, so many dead spirits remain unaffected by this call. It can affect any ghost that the caster has previously summoned by magic. (Base 15, +4 Arcane, +1 Conc) Thoughts Within Babble, InMe 30, R: Per, D: Sun, T: Hearing. The magus understands the speech of those he can hear. Fortunata’s version is extended to Sun Duration, so she need not concentrate on the spell while study''
''ing from texts read out loud to her. (Base 5, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing)''
''And the following Mystery spells (requiring and enabled by specific Virtues):''
''Sustain a Spell of (Form), ReVi(Form) Gen, R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual, Mystery (Spell Binding). Cast on a container, the ritual spell binds to another spell (of the requisite Form) cast in the next round, allowing a (Form) spirit to be forced into the container where it must sustain the second spell indefinitely. The library has Lab Texts to sustain spells for Terram, Ignem, Imaginem and Mentem, at levels 20, 30, and 40. (See this chapter, Initiation of Spell Binding) (Base effect) Empowering Prison of the Declining Spirit, Re(Mu)Vi(Form), Gen, enchantment, Mystery (Hermetic Empowerment). R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind, Pen +0, 1 use per day. This enchantment binds a spirit into the device, draining its Might Score to power Ritual Magic effects in the device. The library has Lab Texts for Empowering Prisons for Terram, Ignem, Imaginem and Mentem, at levels 20, 34, and 50. (See this chapter, Initiation of Hermetic Empowerment) (Base effect)''

===Fortunata’s Treasures===

''The laboratory hides the Spell Binding containers (see this chapter, Bound Spirits) which maintain the Coerce Spirit spells which command the guardians of the Island, including Tempestas, Lapidosus, and Fax. The commands given when the Coerce Spirit spells were cast mean that a possessor of the Spell Binding object can claim to be the lawful ruler of that spirit. The containers are sealed into the solid stone of the floor, by use of Rego Terram to re-shape the stone around them (Intellego Vim magics reveal their presence.)''

===Calling the Dead===

''ReMe 60 Pen +20, 24/day R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind Calls up a ghost which has a regular haunt if you are at that place, or if you have previously summoned the ghost by magic, and you have an Arcane Connection such as the ghost’s full name. This effect is particularly applicable to spirits originally called by Ritual summoning. Once summoned, the Staff maintains concentration on the summoning, until the ghost is dismissed. (Base 15, +4 Arc, +1 Conc, +10 levels for penetration, +5 levels 24/day, +5 maintain concentration)''

===Maintain the Caster’s Spell===

''ReVi 45 Pen +0, 24/day R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind Applied to a spell which you have already cast and are concentrating to maintain, the device sustains the spell for a diameter while you perform other actions. You can still concentrate on the spell to alter its effects. The device affects spells up to level 40. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +1 Diam, +5 levels 24/day)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Spells to Summon and Command Spirits==

''The following Guidelines appeared in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 28:''
''Level 5: Control a disembodied spirit of (Form). Level 15: Summon a disembodied spirit of (Form).''

|}
''Legends of Hermes Island Inhabitants and Guardians''
''The island has many spirits, chief''
''among them being Lucida, one-time familiar to Fortunata. With the timeless nature of spirits, few can tell whether Fortunata came to the island because it was rich with spirits, or whether she, as mistress of spirits, commanded them to come here. There are many Imagines — mi''
''nor spirits of sensation — who fill the place with sounds, and strange sights. As one walks around voices or strains of music may be heard; and one may see many things: people (strangers, or even familiar — the spirits are notorious for duplicating people) or buildings (perhaps even a village in the dis''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Fax, a Firebrand Spirit==

''Fax is a spirit of the firebrand, bound by Fortunata to protect the island. She spends her days racing around the island, skipping from the tip of one bush to another, not stopping even to consume the wood; at night she sometimes settles for a while, flames as might a torch, then moves on again. Those wandering the interior of the island, or the villa itself, may find some of her Continual Flame torch-fires burning without fuel — she creates these whenever she gets bored, and they last long enough that there are many burning at any time. If commanded by Lucida or such, or if she should remember her charge, then Fax uses her powers to harass and harm intruders. She is bound by a Spell Binding contained in a large ruby, hid''
''den in Fortunata’s library.''
''Magic Might: 10 (Ignem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int -3, Per 0, Pre +2, Com –2, Str –10, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +8 Size: -5 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Tough; Proud (Minor) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (Crafter of Ignem), Greater Power (x2) (Arc of Fiery Ribbons, Continual Flame, Donning the Corporeal Veil, Hurl Flame), Improved Abilities, Improved Defense (x3), Improved Soak (x2), Personal Power (Flight of the Hummingbird); Miniature (x2) Personality Traits: Fiery +3, Proud +3''
''Combat: Dodge: Init +8, Attach –, Defense +14, Damage – Fist of Flame:* Init +8, Attack +3, Defense +8, Damage +5 (fire) *	 Fax’s touch burns on contact, rather than hurting by impact. Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), -3 (2), -5 (3), Incapacitated (4) Abilities: Athletics 3 (run), Awareness 3 (alertness), Brawl 4 (fist), Concentration 1 (maintain powers), Finesse 1 (Ignem), Island Lore 2 (places), Latin 3 (fire), Magic Lore 1 (spirits) Powers: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4)''

|}
''tance). It is easy to pursue phantoms that lead you on until a stumble or turn takes them briefly out of sight — never to return. Upon realizing that there are intruders, Lucida will command the full power of the Imagines and other spirits to drive the intruders mad, or at least''
''to drive them away. There are also dangerous spirits bound here by Fortunata to protect her villa and keep intruders out — elemental spirits of both earth and fire. The spirits may not have the Might to penetrate even a shared Parma Magica, but they can work indirect magic''
''against a magus, and are a considerable danger to those companions separated from their magus during the tempestuous storm and cast upon the shore. They are also part of the “treasure” of the island, if one can locate and take their binding items.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Fax, a Firebrand Spirit (cont’d)==

''Arc of Fiery Ribbons, 1 point, Init +5, Ignem.  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  As the spell of the same name, Fax can throw out ribbons of fire doing +10 damage to all in a 60-degree arc as far as her voice carries.  CrIg 25 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Group) Greater Power (25 levels, -2 Might cost) Continual Flame, 1 point, Init +6, Ignem  R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind  Fax can touch anything and leave behind a flame (anywhere from candle-sized to torch sized) which will burn without fuel for a month.  CrIg 15 (Base 3, +1 Touch, +3 Moon) Greater Power (15 levels, -1 Might cost) Crafter of Ignem, 1-3 points, Init +6,''
''Ignem.  Fax can duplicate any non-ritual Creo or Rego Ignem spell up to level 15, at a cost of 1 Might per spell magnitude. Focus Power (15 levels, +1 add 5 to max. level, +1 Init) Donning the Corporeal Veil, 2 points, Init +5, Ignem  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  Fax may produce and animate a body of elemental fire, which lasts until the duration expires or she dissolves it; if slain in material form she is killed, leaving behind 2 small rubies containing vis — but if injured she can dissolve her body to prevent death.  Cr(Re)Ig 25 (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite): Greater Power''
''(25 levels, -1 Might cost) Flight of the Hummingbird, 0 points, Init +7, Ignem  R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind  Fax can fly through the air in any direction simply by concentrating; if concentration is lost she stops but does not fall.  ReIg 10 (Base 4, +2 Sun): Personal Power (10 levels, -1 Might cost). Hurl Flame, 0 points, Init +7, Ignem  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  Fax can hurl a torch-sized flame from her tiny hands, doing +5 damage where it strikes.  CrIg 10 (Base 4, +2 Voice) Greater Power (10 levels, –1 Might cost) Vis: 2 Ignem, in her ruby eyes. Appearance: Fax appears as a tiny naked woman made of flame.''

==Cantus, a Spirit of Song==

''Cantus is an example of one of the many Imagines that haunt the island. It wanders freely, not bound by Fortunata — it may be one of the native “sounds which fill the island” which Fortunata mentions in her writings.''
''Magic Might: 5 (Imaginem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre –2, Com +4, Str –3, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: — Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit.''
''Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Music of the Spheres). Personality Traits: Guileful +3 Abilities: Awareness 3 (alertness), Finesse 3 (illusion), Music 3 (illusion), Island Lore 2 (inhabitants), Magic Lore 2 (spirits) Powers: Music of the Spheres, 0 points, Init +1, Imaginem  R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Group  Cantus can create music (or less complex sounds), from one to ten''
''voices. It is fond of bell chimes, and plaintive melodies.  CrIm 25 (Base 1, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +2 Group, +2 move at command, +1 intricacy), Greater Power (25 levels, -3 Might, +2 Init) Vis: 1 Imaginem, in a chime which falls to the ground. Appearance: To those with Second Sight or similar abilities, Cantus appears as a set of chime bells or as some specific instrument it is sounding. It always sounds sweet and comely.''

==Mnemos, an Ancient Ghost==

''Mnemos lived and died a long time ago, before the time of Christ, for certain. He remembers little of life, except a bright, hot sun, and much sand. He speaks a language only spoken then, and forgotten since — but he was literate in life, and can read even now. Fortunata used to summon him and command him to examine ancient scrolls, and to read aloud to her if he could. She then used Thoughts Within Babble to understand his speech. She would sometimes transcribe what he read out, and sometimes just listen, studying from his words as if she were reading the text herself.''
''Magic Might: 5 (Mentem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit (spectre) Personality Traits: Lost +3 Abilities: Artes Liberales 3 (grammar), Concentration 1 (reading), Dead Language (Sumerian) 5 (scholarship) Vis: none Appearance: A dark-skinned man, with''
''a shaven head and a long, waxed chin-beard. He wears a skirt of linen, and the ghost of a gold collar.''
''Mnemos is an example of one of the ghosts named and described in a list in Fortunata’s library; her notes for Mnemos annotate him as “Sumerian?”. Fortunata’s methods meant that she never bothered to learn ancient languages, just summoned spirits until she found one who could read a text for her. In his unchanging ghost-life, he does not remember Fortunata. He has faded though, to the extent that he does not remember why he remains on earth.''

|}

==Error, a Spirit of Recollection==

''Error (or “Delusion”) is another of the Imagines. It wanders freely, not bound to specific service; it creates (recalls) figures which talk and jest among themselves. Error is these images (or their spirit); it must conjures its own imaginings most of the time, but cares not whether there is any audience. The memories of others make an interesting change, so it will gleefully pursue and confuse any visitors it encounters. If anyone comes across Error playing out some scene for itself, it will try to draw them into the scene, adjusting the scene to pull them in further. If Error detects suitable victims when not already engrossed in its own story, it will create figures from the memories of the new victims — these may be very plausible, such as fellow travelers cast onto the island, and so especially confusing to encounter.''
''Magic Might: 5 (Imaginem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre –3, Com +2, Str –2, Sta +2, Dex 0,''
''Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit, Second Sight; Meddler Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Image of the Beloved), Focus Power (Warper of Imaginem); Slow Power (Image of the Beloved). Personality Traits: Meddler +3, Guileful +3 Abilities: Awareness 2 (alertness), Finesse 3 (illusion), Folk Ken 1 (common folk), Guile 3 (illusion), Island Lore 1 (inhabitants), Magic Lore 1 (spirits), Second Sight 3 (illusion) Powers: Warper of Imaginem, 1 point, Init +1. Error can duplicate any Muto or Rego Imaginem spell up to level 5 at a cost of 1 Might. (Focus Power). Image of the Beloved, 1 points, Init -2, Imaginem  R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Group  Error can create a believable figure or figures, which interact with a victim and their associates. The''
''spirit attempts to second-guess (using magic) what the figures should say or do, and may easily be caught out. (Compare its roll of Perception + Finesse against a victim’s roll — usually Perception + Awareness, but other Abilities may apply, considering familiarity with the image portrayed.) Error’s power must penetrate for it to pluck something familiar from a victim. This is a slow power, as Error must concentrate for a round to grasp what would best deceive the victim.  Cr(In)Im(Me) 35 (Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +2 Group, +2 move at command, +1 intricacy, +1 Intellego requisite; Mentem requisite adds no further ability and so is free), Greater Power (35 levels, -3 Might cost) Vis: 1 Imaginem, in a shard of glass. Appearance: Error has no fixed appearance, just that which it creates — Second Sight shows it as whatever figures it currently portrays.''

==Lapidosus, a Spirit of Stony Ground==

''Lapidosus is a spirit of stony ground, bound by Fortunata to guard the island against intruders. Any who walk unwarily over open ground (not solid rock) may be noticed and attacked. As an insubstantial spirit it can move freely through solid matter — but by choice Lapidosus always remains in soil, especially stony soil. He is bound by a Spell Binding contained in a leaden plumb-weight hidden in Fortunata’s library.''
''Magic Might: 10 (Terram) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre –3, Com –3, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Sense the Feet That Tread The Earth), Greater Power (The Crystal Dart, The Earth’s Carbuncle, Hands of the Grasping Earth, Pit of the Gaping Earth), Great Strength, Great Stamina, Improved Powers (x2) (reduced Might cost)''
''Personality Traits: Stony +3 Abilities: Awareness 4 (searching), Finesse 4 (Terram), Island Lore 2 (geography), Magic Lore 1 (spirits) Powers: The Crystal Dart, 0 points, Init +1, Terram. As the spell of the same name, Mu(Re)Te 10. Greater Power (10 levels, –1 Might from Improved Powers, +1 Init from Improved Powers) The Earth’s Carbuncle, 0 points, Init 0, Terram. As the spell of the same name, Re(Mu)Te 15. Greater Power (15 levels, –2 Might from Improved Powers, +1 Init from Improved Powers) Hands of the Grasping Earth, 0 points, Init 0, Terram. As the spell of the same name, Re(Mu)Te 15. Greater Power (15 levels, –2 Might from Improved Powers, +1 Init from Improved Powers) Pit of the Gaping Earth, 0 points, Init +1, Terram. As the spell of the same name, reduced to R: Touch, PeTe 10. Greater Power (10 levels, –1 Might from Improved Powers, +1 Init from Improved Powers)''
''Sense the Feet That Tread the Earth, 0 points, Init +0, Terram  R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part  Merely by thinking about the question, Lapidosus can feel what is moving along the ground within a mile, which covers the whole of Fortunata’s island. He can tell the direction, distance, weight, number, and manner of movement of moving things.  InTe 25 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +3 Size), Greater Power (25 levels, -3 Might cost, +2 Init) Vis: 2 Terram, in sharp flints. Appearance: Lapidosus is insubstantial, but appears as a very ugly, wrinkled, distorted man with a huge head and hands, and almost no body. His skin appears like old brown leather, but close up is like the earth itself.''
''Time on the island has been so quiet, with so few intruders, that Lapidosus has become slack in his searches, so intruders may be able to move around for some while before he recalls the task he has been set.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
