''The duchy of Normandy is bounded by the English Channel to the north and west, along a coastline that is a mixture of beaches and perilous, alabaster cliffs. Across the waves squats misty England: a brooding presence on the horizon, and troublesome military foe of France. To the south are the duchies of Brittany and Maine, and the Royal Demesne; east are the counties of Flanders. Normandy is heavily forested, but the Seine''
''basin (in the east) has been partly cleared for farmland and, as the duchy has been the site of much conflict over the centuries, there are many castles. Originally, Gallic tribes, who are fondly remembered by the many faerie creatures they once worshiped, inhabited the region that is now the duchy of Normandy. The tribes were conquered by the Romans and, under imperial rule, the area became Secunda''
''Provincia Lugdunensis. When the Romans left, the region became part of the Carolingian province of Neustria — but, during the ninth and 10th centuries, Neustria was overrun by Scandinavian vikings. Eventually, the Vikings colonized the region and their leader became the duke of Normandy (land of the north men). Since then, Normandy has been an occasional ally and frequent foe of the French crown until, in 1203-1204, the''

=Normandy=

''French king, Philip II, annexed the duchy from the English crown. England itself was conquered by the Normans in 1066, of course. More detail about the history and annexation of Normandy is given in Chapter 2: The History of Mythic France.''

==The Duke of Normandy==

''The Normans considered themselves distinct from the other vassals of the French crown; they claimed Normandy was an allod granted absolutely to the duke. The French crown has not always agreed, and in 1220 Normandy is actually under the direct control of the French king. Therefore, there is no Duke of Normandy, but the Anglo-Norman claimant is Henry III. Feudal relationships within Normandy are more-or-less unchanged, however — the French crown merely substitutes for the duke at the head of the feudal table. Many minor Anglo-Norman nobles have retained holdings in both''
''Normandy and England, but King Philip has been careful to keep strategic holdings to himself and several close allies. Under the Normans, the duchy was highly militarized; even so, when planning large military operations the duke hired mercenaries — from Flanders, Scandinavia, or Germany — whose leaders often become ducal vassals. The duke’s existing vassals also provided troops and fielded their own armies, too. This militarization has remained under Philip and today, for example, the bishop of Bayeux has the service of 100 knights; 20 he owes to the ducal army, 10 to the royal army, and the remaining 70 are for his own use. The Norman dukes attempted to limit private wars between their vassals, preferring to settle disputes in the ducal court where the usual punishment was the confiscation of land, but internal war could not always be prevented. Even so, the duke imposed some rules: nominally, the defeated could not be ransomed or pillaged and their houses and mills could not be burnt. Philip also continues to enforce these rules. A number of towns in the duchy have been granted charters, which allows the town burgesses to elect their own mayors and councilors and to hold their own courts. In return, the burgesses pay a collective tenure to the king, or in some cases to a bishop or to another noble (see City and Guild page 8). Most large Normandy towns have charters, and a number of small communities are also chartered, including: Beauvoir, Laigle, and Trun, all small forest communities; Conches, Lyre, and Saint-Evroult, each little more than a village outside an abbey; and Claville, in reality a large manor. The large town charters have been confirmed by Philip II since 1204, but the smaller towns are less assured. This is because many small towns''
''were granted charters in the frantic years prior to 1204 by King John to gather revenue to ward off the French annexation, and the French crown is less enthusiastic about such small independent towns. Hermetic covenants near small communities may have taken advantage of their neighbor’s charter — for example, by acknowledging the jurisdiction of local (and easily manipulated) magistrates the magi may have avoided dealing with bailli (see below) — and if local charters are subsequently revoked the covenant may need to create new arrangements. Some covenants, as small communities, may even have been granted charters in their own right by King John.''

==Norman Bailliages==

''Under Philip, Normandy is divided into administrative units, called bailliages, that correspond approximately to the historic counties of Normandy. Each bailliage is administered by a professional, educated bureaucrat who has the title bailli, and is appointed by the king. Bailli are wealthy, as they are paid personal salaries of several hundred pounds per annum, and some have held office since the annexation. However, if your saga follows history, from the 1220s onwards bailli typically hold office for only three or four years. Bailli are intentionally not drawn from either the ranks of the great noble families or the church, but some are minor nobles or were once military officers. Bailli are also generally honest and loyal to the king. In 1220 there are no native Norman bailli, and important bailli include:''
''Bailli of Rouen: Jean de la Porte, appointed in 1219. Bailli of Caen: Pierre du Thillai, appointed in 1205. Bailli of Bayeux: Renaud de Ville-Thierry, appointed in 1206. Bailli of Cotentin: Miles de Levis, appointed in 1215.''
''The bailli know that the Order of Hermes exists, and although they do not know any specific details, they are aware of the location of some covenants, so should a magical calamity befall the duchy, these covenants may receive delegations seeking aid or suspects. Otherwise, as long as the known covenants pay their taxes and do not upset the feudal structural, the bailli have no particular interest in the Order of Hermes.''

[|

==Normandy Covenants==

''Current Covenants: Confluensis, Dragon’s Rest, Montverte. Ruined, Abandoned, or Lost Covenants: Aedes Salii, Baiocassium, Baiocassium Minor, Orchard of Sour Apples (current site of Confluensis), Pagus, Rotomagus.''

|]

==The Lion and the Lily The Archdiocese of Rouen==

''The Archdiocese of Rouen was an important battleground in the conversion of pagan France, and its borders are almost identical to those of the Normandy duchy. The first bishop of Rouen, Nicaise, was hardly successful — he was martyred after his arrival from Rome in the mid-third century — but his replacement, St. Mellon, survived and established the diocese, which in 744 rose to become an archdiocese. The current archbishop is Master Robert Poulain (a theologian, elected to office in 1208) who, if your saga follows history, is succeeded in 1222 by Thibaud d’Amiens. In 1220, a notable number of the bishops answerable to the archbishop of Rouen are (like the archbishop himself) academics educated at Jumieges. Master Robert des Ablèges (elected to Bayeux in 1206) is a theologian, and Master Hugh Neret (elected to Coutances, in 1208) is a canonist as is Master William du Pont-de-l’Arche (elected to Lisieux in 1218). These academic bishops all know of the Order of Hermes and have met Hermetic scholars before. The archbishop believes that the Order of Hermes is heretical, but he has yet to do more than argue this point with the other bishops, who are not convinced. Other bishops include William d’Ostilly (a local dean, elected to Avranches in 1212), Luke of Evreux (elected to Evreux in 1203, also formerly a local dean), and Sylvester of Sées (elected to Sées in 1201, and formerly the archdeacon). If your saga follows history, the elderly bishops of Sées and Evreux both die in 1220. Gervase of Chichester, a foreign candidate favored by the papacy, is elected to Sées, which is controversial as the bishops prior to Sylvester were foreigners who profligately spent the diocese’s treasury. In contrast, Evreux elects another local dean Ralph de Cierrey. Church officials in Normandy were granted discretion by the pope to choose sides during the French annexation, and they chose to accept Philip as king. Unlike the Normans, Philip II has not yet interfered in episcopal elections, but like the Normans he has made significant grants of money and land to Normandy religious houses. On the other hand, there are tensions: in 1218 Philip forced the archbishop to concede to the king the right to excommunicate royal officials.''

[|

==Lutin==

''Faerie Might: 5 (Aquam) Characteristics: Int –2, Per +2, Pre 0, Com –1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +2 Size: –2 Age: n/a Virtues and Flaws: None Personality Traits: Servile +3, Dreamer +2 Reputations: Helpful spirit (local) +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Broom (improvised bludgeon): Init +2, Attack +6, Defense +3, Damage –3 Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7– 9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Area Lore: Normandy 3 (villages), Athletics (jumping) 4, Awareness (people) 3, Brawling (dodge) 1, Carouse (singing) 2, Etiquette (faeries) 4, Faerie Lore (nobles) 1, Guile (superiors) 3, Living Language (eavesdropping) 5, Profession: servant (cleaning) 5, Stealth (indoors) 5, Swim (rivers) 3 Powers: The Master’s Things, 0 points, Constant, Terram: The lutin is aware of exactly what is in the room that he is in, how many of those things there are, and where each item is. The lutin can only classify things by their physical appearance, and he will not necessarily know the purpose of items; for example, unless he had seen it used previously, he would identify a magical wand as be''
''ing a “small stick.” The lutin can find items that are disguised or hidden in the room by mundane means, but he cannot discern items hidden by magic with a magnitude greater than one. This power must also penetrate to find characters with Magic Resistance. This power has no effect outdoors. Soap and Suds, 1 point, Init +1, Aquam: The floor in the room that the lutin is in becomes soapy and slippery. A character moving quickly in the room (including in combat), must make a Dexterity roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to avoid slipping each round. This power has no effect outdoors. Equipment: Household items (broom, shovel, or cloth). Vis: 1 pawn of Aquam vis, concentrated in the heart. Appearance: Lutin are servile goblins. They look like small people, and sometimes perform cleaning services for households in return for offerings of offal or clean water. Lutin are quite common in the faerie courts of Normandy, and are also particularly attracted to villages that have no church. However, they usually avoid actually meeting people, even those that leave offerings for them. Lutin seem to universally dread a “goblin duke of Normandy,” but the Order of Hermes has no information on who or what this individual might be.''

==Story Seed: The Vacant Castle==

''Since the annexation in 1204, a castle on the Cotentin peninsula has lain vacant, and it is now the lair of a terrible monster who endlessly patrols the dark, stone corridors seeking the flesh of men. She is related to Grendel from the Beowulf saga and was released by a fleeing vassal of King John. An Hermetic expedition in 1218 did not definitely locate the monster, despite the loss of several grogs, but''
''the investigators did find a strong Magic aura. They intend to propose, at the next Tribunal meeting, that colonists are sent to the castle to establish a new covenant. If the site is repopulated, French officials may try to gain influence over the castle and reintegrate it within the feudal system — some issues may be resolved in advance if the prospective colonists obtain a royal grant to occupy the site.''

==Saints at Rouen==

''A number of Rouen bishops have been canonized including St. Ouen (641-684), who converted or exterminated many pagans. Several important theological writers worked in Rouen, too, and original copies of their works are stored at Rouen Cathedral, including: St. Victricius (380-409), De Laude Sanc''
''torum: a Theology summae of Quality 11, Level 5; and Liber Regularum: a Civil and Canon Law summae of Quality 10, Level 3. Hugh of Amiens (1130-74), Contra Haereticos: a Divine Lore summae of Quality 10, Level 3, compiled with an Infernal Lore Ability tractatus of Quality 8.''

|]
''The Lion and the Lily Seine River Basin''
''The meandering Seine River is the main link between Paris and the coast; the river basin includes the counties of Rouen, Lisieux, and Evreux, and at the mouth of the Seine is the covenant of Dragon’s Rest (see Chapter 11: Confluensis). The river basin is the productive heart of Normandy, with many prosperous towns dotted along the river or its tributaries, and upstream of Rouen the river thrusts its way through the land towards Paris. Centuries ago large areas of primordial forest were felled, but some forest fragments remain including the Forest of Lyons, a favored hunting ground of Norman nobles. The heart of the forest is occupied by a castle, the construction of which eliminated the spirit of the forest (see Guardians of the Forests, page 30) — although wild woodsmen say that the forest is not dead and will rise to reclaim its heart. Farms speckle the cleared countryside and many fields are divided by low stone walls into small allotments. This practice, called bocage, distinguishes the fields of Normandy from those near Paris, and the main food crops grown in the Seine basin are wheat and oats; both are milled to make bread. A small amount of barley is also grown, mainly to make beer, and some peasants pay rent in barley. Unfortunately, barley is temperamental, and lost crops can indebt the peasants. Wheat crops (sown in autumn) are also frequently lost to winter frosts, but the land can be re-sown in spring with dependable, fast-growing oats. Cattle are farmed in the Seine basin too, largely because the climate is really better suited to growing grass rather than bread crops. Finally, viticulture was introduced by monasteries, and today many farms have an allotment for vines; the largest vineyards are built on the banks of the Seine. Normandy wine is sent in large volumes by barge to local urban centers, but it is of poor quality and not normally exported to other regions. Creo Herbam effects might boost the productivity of farms, or produce high-quality wine, but a covenant that magically augments agriculture may find curious peasants knocking at the gate seeking similar assistance. Also on the banks of the Seine are the ruins of fortified bridges, especially at strategic narrows. These were constructed to impede the upstream progress of Viking raiders.''
''Most have since been salvaged to build farm and town buildings, but some bridges have been maintained and are now used as tollhouses. Several are said to be haunted by the ghosts of Viking and Frankish warriors, who mutely re-enact their bloody deaths by the light of the waning moon.''

==Rouen==

''Rouen, on the Seine River, was founded by the Romans near a small Gallic village. The Romans named the town Rotomagus, and it was the chief city of the province of Secunda Provincia Lugdunensis. Rotomagus was also the name of a covenant that was briefly sited near Rouen in the ninth century. Today, Rouen is the capital of the duchy of Normandy and was captured by Philip II in 1203. Parisian shipping heading to the Baltic passes through the town, and Rouen used to gather considerable revenues from crosschannel trade, but since the annexation it has undergone a recession. This forced Philip II, in 1207, to try to gain support for his regime by granting a very generous town charter. There are a number of churches in Rouen, and the seat of the archdiocese is a large cathedral. Romans first built a church at the cathedral site in the third century, and successive generations of worshipers have added to the edifice. Many Norman nobles are interred in the crypt, including Rollo, and some magi speculate that the noble corpses are potent sources of Rego vis — but no one has dared to attempt their exhumation. There was once a large community of Jewish money-lenders in Rouen, but during the Third Crusade renegade knights murdered many in the town who would not convert. The surviving Jews prospered for a time, secretly practicing their old faith, but since Normandy came under French control, their position has become even more precarious as Philip II has made many anti-Jewish laws (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 123). Nonetheless, a few remaining Jews are involved in Rouen mercantile businesses, and although their influence is much less overt, a magus who floods the Rouen markets with magically derived wealth will attract their ire. On the other hand, the Jewish families in Rouen hold a large number of Arabic and Hebrew texts, and if the persecution of the Jews becomes intolerable, they may seek to swap texts for magical aid to flee into Iberia. Of course, unscrupulous magi might join the persecution and seize the texts anyway.''

==Jumieges==

''The Benedictine abbey of Jumieges was founded in 634 by St. Philibert on the northern bank of the Seine, downstream of Rouen, and over the last few centuries it has been lavishly patronized by the Normans — although they did burn it to the ground in the ninth century. Today, the abbey is an important center of scholarship and learning, and its libraries hold many religious and philosophical texts. The abbey is also heavily involved in French politics — many''

[|

==Story Seed: Gargouille==

''The Gargouille was a scaled, magical beast with large, pale, blue eyes that emerged from the Seine in the seventh century, projecting massive volumes of water and destroying crops. St. Romanus (archbishop of Rouen) called upon the townsfolk to help defeat the creature but, except for a prisoner awaiting execution, they were all too afraid. Undaunted, St. Romanus and the prisoner confronted the Gargouille, which St. Romanus paralyzed by making the sign of the cross. The prisoner then dragged the creature back to Rouen to be burned. In commemoration of this event, once a year the clergy of Rouen elect a prisoner from among those condemned for execution, and he is absolved of his crimes in the presence of the relics of St. Romanus. Several slain townsmen are discovered near the covenant, and the magi are blamed. In a heated town meeting, Archbishop Robert declares that the perverse, unholy magi are the Gargouilles of the 13th century, who must be defeated just as the seventh century monster was. The prisoners held by the town — half a dozen thieves and murderers — are released and with the archbishop they march on the covenant carrying the shrine of St. Romanus (this has a Faith Point total of 5, see ArM5 page 189). If the magi are seen to harm the archbishop and the prisoners, the situation may escalate into a broad crusade against the Order of Hermes in Normandy, and if the magi are innocent they may have been framed.''

|]
''bishops in France are alumni of Jumieges — and the abbot of Jumieges is consequently an influential man. Over 1,000 monks currently live at the monastery, and a considerable town exists outside the walls to feed the brothers. A day’s travel further downstream is another large Benedictine abbey: St. Wandrille, which was founded by a seventh-century Frankish count, who with his wife, renounced all earthly pleasures on his wedding day. The two abbeys compete for patronage from nobles, but otherwise relationships between them are good.''

==The County of Bayeux==

''Bayeux is a forested county to the west of the Seine basin, where isolated settlements, built in cleared valleys, are often centered on a monastery or manor house. There is also a ruined Diedne covenant, Baiocassium, in the forest. The population in Bayeux has increased over the last century and will probably continue to do so for the foreseeable future, gradually destroying the expansive forest. There are two large towns, near the coast: Caen and Bayeux. Swine are the most numerous farm animals in Bayeux, although they are barely farmed at all; rather, they are allowed to roam in their natural woodland habitat. Most communities hold an autumnal culling of swine and salt their carcasses for the winter; a single boar carcass can provide up to one hundred servings of meat. Stewardship over the swine is claimed by a number of woodland faeries, and wise community leaders acknowledge the local faerie court (via a festival, or a payment, etc.) prior to beginning the cull. Church authorities, who are very skeptical of the orthodoxy and veracity of the practice, discourage these sacrifices. The Diocese of Bayeux was founded by St. Exuperius in the first century, and is therefore one of the oldest in Mythic Europe. Bishop St Vigor destroyed a functioning pagan temple here in the early sixth century, and his desecration has not been forgotten by the faeries of Bayeux, who have plotted since to destroy the local influence of the Divine. Another notable bishop was the brother of William the Conqueror, Odo of Conteville (1050-1097); he built a fortified cathedral in Bayeux, and was present at the battle of Hastings, afterward commissioning a tapestry to commemorate the battle.''

==The Town of Bayeux==

''The town of Bayeux was once Baiocasses — the capital of the Gauls — captured by the Romans in the first century BC. Parts of a few Roman buildings still stand, and some current buildings are constructed from stone salvaged from Roman villas or administration buildings. No Gallic structures remain, but the land remembers where they once stood, and there are rumors of a regio in the town''
''that housed a small Diedne vassal covenant (Baiocassium Minor), although no living magus has admitted to knowing its precise location. In the early years of the Norman duchy, Bayeux was a center for a rival group of Viking colonists, who occasionally rebelled against Rouen, but today it is an uncontroversial part of the duchy. Important buildings in the town are the mills that service the surrounding countryside and Bayeux Cathedral. Stored in the cathedral is the tapestry, commissioned by Odo, which is really an embroidery almost 100 yards long and a yard wide. Its Latincaptioned images depict the life of Harold, King of England, until he was killed by the Normans. Magic was woven into the threads, and the tapestry forms a +2 Sympathetic Connection to the Duke of Normandy and the King of England.''

==Caen==

''Built on the River Orne, Caen was, during the reign of William the Conqueror, effectively the capital of Normandy — he preferred Caen’s remoteness from Paris — and''

[|

==Norman Histories==

''There are many books, written by monks, on the mundane history of Normandy. Most clergy in Normandy have read at least one of these books, as have most nobles (or at least their officials have). Copies of these books can be found in typical cathedral or monastic libraries.''
''Historia rerum Anglicarum by William of Newburgh (1136-1198) includes an Area Lore: England summa of Quality 7 and Level 5; and an Area Lore: Normandy tractatus of Quality 8. The Ecclesiastical History, by Orderic Vitalis (1075-1141) includes an Area Lore: Normandy summa of Quality 8 and Level 4; an Area Lore: England summa of Quality 8 and Level 3; and a Civil and Canon Law tractatus of Quality 7. Historia Normannorum, by William of Jumieges (1025-1090) includes an Area Lore: Normandy summa of Quality 9 and Level 5; and an Area Lore: England tractatus of Quality 7. Some copies include a final chapter (an Area Lore: Normandy tractatus of Quality 8) added anonymously after the author’s death, which updated the history to 1137. History of the Normans, by Dudo of St Quentin (960-1025) includes an Area Lore: Normandy summa of Quality 8 and Level 4; and two Area Lore: Normandy tractatus each of Quality 8.''

==Story Seed: White Ladies==

''The white ladies are a coterie of Sidhe fay, reputedly the sisters of Arthur’s Lady of the Lake, who rule a group of faerie regiones scattered near the town of Bayeux. The white ladies love dancing and are constantly searching for mortal partners. Their favorite tactic is to wait at narrow defiles near their courts (bridges, fords, and gorges, for example) and when a potential partner passes, the white lady, with her minstrels, accosts him seeking a dance. Men who refuse to dance, and those that insult the lady by treading on her toes, are thrown from the road by jeering members of her court, but a particularly excellent dancer is rewarded for his prowess. He might even be invited to an extravagant ball, which is hosted every spring equinox by one of the white ladies for her peers. Bringing the best dancing partner is both a matter of pride and determines which of the white ladies is paramount for the following year.''

|]
''the town was the staging point for many of his military operations including the 1066 conquest of England. Today, Caen’s military past is gloriously manifested in an enormous fortress that dominates the town. Construction of Caen Castle began in 1060, and it now covers around 5 hectares, enveloped by a tall, stone crenellated wall, and a dry moat. A hall and keep were added in the 1120s, and recently Philip II built a number of new towers and a secondary, inner wall around the keep. In 1220, workmen are busily tearing down the original gatehouse and tower in the north wall and constructing new gates in the south and east walls. Extra laborers are always required, as are engineers and architects. William and his wife Matilda also each constructed a large, fortified abbey — the Men’s and Women’s Abbeys — in Caen. The buildings were the price they paid to reverse their excommunication by Pope Nicholas II. He had excommunicated the pair due to the unwholesome nature of their relationship: they were cousins.''

==Cotentin Peninsula==

''The Cotentin peninsula is a very lightly settled and poor region. This is because much of the land is horrible swamps and marshes, but a few castles and towns huddle on the dry areas. Travelers passing through the forest of Brix (which lies to the south of Cherbourg) run the risk of ambush by packs of ferocious faerie wolves that haunt the forest, but villagers who live in the forest are''

[|

==The Infernal Grave of William the Conqueror==

''William the Conqueror died at the age of 60 in 1087 — at the priory of St Gervais, in Rouen — from injuries he sustained by falling from his horse. William’s body stank and rapidly decayed, it was defiled by servants, and abandoned by the sycophantic nobles who had gathered to his deathbed. This was a vile augury of Normandy’s fate as the duchy fell into anarchy and revolt. Eventually, William was taken from the priory to Caen, and as his body arrived a fire broke out that threatened the town. Against a backdrop of acrid black smoke''
''and fire, beneath the bleak solidity of Caen Castle, William’s funeral was conducted at the Men’s Abbey. His bloated corpse burst free of the coffin during the ceremony, and the stench was so foul that the presiding bishops botched the rite. An infernal text is found by the magi when they search the belongings of an infernalist (The Conquered Bastard; an Infernal Lore Ability tractatus of Quality 6). It describes how William’s corpse is inhabited by a demon, who may have assisted his military exploits and was responsible for''
''the rapid decay of William’s body. Unfortunately for the demon, the botched funeral rite trapped her in William’s decaying corpse. The infernalist’s laboratory notes suggest he was attempting to free the demon. The magi in turn may try to free or destroy the trapped demon; either necessitates an exhumation of William that may draw the magi into conflict with the church in Caen. It is, of course, possible that the text is a forgery designed either by infernal agents or Tribunal rivals to embroil the magi in an infernal plot.''

|]
''able to safely negotiate the forest paths. There was once a covenant built near the town of Cherbourg called Pagus. The covenant was destroyed during the Schism War, and today some of its vis sources are controversially claimed by a Fengheld (a large Rhine Tribunal covenant) chapterhouse that is built in Cherbourg. The large Quaesitorial covenant of Confluensis is also built on the peninsula (see Confluensis chapter).''

==The Hague-Dicke==

''Ninth-century Norse invaders built a fortified earthwork — the Hague-Dicke — that separated the northwestern portion of the Cotentin peninsula from the mainland. The fortifications were used as barracks for warriors who became stranded and unable to cross the perilous winter seas to Scandinavia. Crews were also staged here during the raiding season. Today, the fortress is unmanned, overgrown, and ruined; its precise course is not even definitely known. Nonetheless, there are rumors of treasures that were looted from monasteries and buried along the earthwork by raiders already overloaded with booty.''

==Barfleur==

''The harbor town of Barfleur was where much of William the Conqueror’s invasion fleet was constructed. Since then, many military and mercantile vessels have been commissioned at the Barfleur shipyards. The harbor is not without its perils — William son of Henry I (king of England) was drowned after his ship, while leaving Barfleur, hit a rock in 1120. A number of maritime ghosts also haunt Barfleur, including a spectral fleet that sails past the town during torrential winter storms, futilely seeking a safe berth.''

==Avranches==

''The small county of Avranches lies on Normandy’s southern border with Brittany. The town of Avranches, built on the Couesnon River, is the seat of the diocese, but the most important religious site is the Benedic''
''tine monastery of Mont St. Michael. Perched on a rocky outcrop near the border of Normandy and Brittany, at the mouth of the Couesnon River, the monastery was founded in the early eighth century by the archangel Michael and draws many pilgrims.''

==Mont St. Michael==

''Once, the site of the monastery (known then as Mount Tombe) was used for druidic rituals by precursors to House Diedne, but this ended in 708 when the archangel Michael appeared before Aubert, bishop of Avranches. The archangel ordered the desecration of pagan graves on the island, and the construction of a chapel. Although initially reluctant, Aubert completed his work in 709, dedicating the chapel to the archangel. Hermetic scholars believe that Aubert destroyed a Magic aura on the island, and that removing the saint’s relics might eventually revive that aura, but fear of the Divine and suspicion over the site’s early connection to the Diedne have prevented any magi from yet taking this action. The relics held in the monastery today include Aubert’s skull and right arm — his skull has a circular hole in it, made when the archangel Michael struck him out of frustration at his early reticence. In 966 Richard I, Duke of Normandy, sponsored the colonization of the Mont by Benedictine monks from St. Wandrille Abbey, led by Abbot Maynard. Abbot Hildebert began additions to the monastery in 1020, but in 1203 a fire, started by the Duke of Brittany, destroyed many parts. In 1210, Abbot Jordan began an ambitious reconstruction program — if your saga follows history, his works are completed in about 1230. During low tide, pilgrims can walk to the monastery over a sandy plain less than a mile across, but this is a perilous journey — even William the Conqueror had to be rescued from quicksand when he visited. During high tide, the sandy plain is covered with over thirty feet of water, isolating the monastery. This has mystical significance too, as during high tide the entire monastery enters a Divine regio with an aura of 8. No one may enter or leave the monastery at this time, and even characters who can fly or swim find they are unable to cross the regio boundary. An image of the monastery can still be seen from shore, but this is only an image and does not reflect events actually''
''occurring within the regio. During low tide, characters may enter or leave the monastery as normal and the monastery has a Divine aura of only 4.''

[|

==The Fen Ague==

''Travelers foolish enough to risk the Cotentin swamps must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 3. If the roll fails, the character contracts a disease called the fen ague, which causes a Heavy Wound and symptoms including shaking, chills, and a continual fever. Hermetic magic is efficacious against the disease (see ArM5, pages 130 and 180).''

==A Foundation Record==

''The foundation story of the monastery is well known and described in detail in the widely disseminated, anonymous Apparitio Sancti Michaelis Archangelis in Monte Tumba (a Divine Lore tractatus; Quality 11).''

==Story Seed: The Uncovered Crypt==

''A covenant member dreams of the archangel Michael pointing towards Mont St. Michael. The dreams become increasingly insistent and urgent, and until the character travels to the monastery, she wakes every morning with a splitting headache — this halves her Study and Lab Totals, and she has a –3 penalty to Concentration rolls. As she arrives at the monastery, construction laborers uncover a crypt beneath the foundations of a tower. Interred within are the fragile skeletal remains of a dozen individuals, and, among the bones, an untitled book. The book is a Holy Magic Theory summa of Source Quality 17 and Level 3 (see Realms of Power: The Divine page 66) and a magus who studies this book is visited by the archangel Michael. Michael wants to supplant Hermetic magic, which he views as pagan, with a Divine variant.''

|]

==Montverte==

''he Autumn covenant of Montverte, one of the five great lieges, is among the most venerable in the Normandy Tribunal and is shrouded in mystery due to its highly secretive inner council. Oft-vilified, it is feared and hated by many due to its aggressive and warlike tendencies. Magi of Montverte were largely responsible for establishing the tradition of Hermetic raiding, and it is only because of their followers’ considerable martial and political strength, exercised ruthlessly, that this shady practice endures.''

==History==

''The Viking invaders of the region that would come to be known as Normandy, in the nineth and 10th centuries, were accompanied by sorcerers, some of whom gained acceptance in the Order of Hermes. There were two particularly warlike brothers, Haland and Harivald, who were distant relatives of the Viking chieftan Rollo. Harivald, the younger, was a master of elemental magics — he was inducted into House Ex Miscellanea but later joined House Flambeau and founded a lineage of Flambeau magi that exists to this day. The elder, Haland, was not Gifted, but the two together captured an old Carolingian fort in a prime defensible spot and settled there, erecting a Norman keep. The early history of the covenant, whose founding was announced at Tribunal in 941, is intermingled with that of the descendants of Haland, the lords of Montverte (“green mount”), who took their name from their hilltop castle. The magi of Montverte grew to dominate and control the lords with whom they cohabited, and co-opted their warriors into their schemes, which involved dubious acts of raiding and racketeering. They began to rob from other covenants, surreptitiously at first, but with increasing bravado. These acts grew into outright aggression during the Schism War, during which the covenant served as a rallying point for many martial Tremere and Flambeau magi.''
''Montverte’s magi were responsible for slaying many of the Normandy Diedne, and the covenant gained significant prestige as Houses Tremere and Flambeau prevailed. In the decades of reconciliation following the Schism War, however, Montverte’s raiding continued. Their deeds caused significant discontent among several other covenants until a magus of Montverte, Koilios, deliberately brought matters to a head with a calculated and brazen raid on the covenant of Lapis Crudus (see Chapter 3: Hermetic History and Customs, Mundane Resources), ensuring tacit permission for the practice of raiding by precedent of Tribunal ruling. In all, the Hermetic history of Montverte has been marred by various controversies and sanctions, and they are widely held to have been responsible for the demise of several past covenants. Nevertheless, they have endured and prospered, becoming one of the major powers in the Tribunal.''

==Setting and Physical Description==

''The covenant occupies a sprawling and formidable Norman keep perched atop a rocky outcropping amid the uplands of southern Normandy. In appearance it resembles a miniature version of the mount of Laon in Picardy (see Chapter 8: Flanders and Picardy, Laon), which inspired its construction. An extensive set of concentric fortifications extends down the hillside, and a series of lush and exotic hanging gardens are arrayed among the walls and turrets. A spring rises near the top of the hill — it was supposedly summoned forth by the ritual magic of one of the early magi of Montverte, who was responsible for the gardens. It descends in an intricate network of diminutive streams, flowing through and feeding the various gardens. In all, the hill somehow manages to combine the appearance of idyllic beauty with stern oppression; it has a Magic aura of 5. A large village, part of the domain of the lords of Montverte, lies beneath the hill in the valley below. The large inner curtain wall at the top of the mount has the shape of an irregular pentagon, with five square towers at its corners, each of which houses one of the five magi of the inner council. The bulky central keep contains important communal buildings such as the covenant’s library, and its meeting and guest chambers. The top floor of the keep consists of the council chamber — a spacious hall, gloomy and dark, which is empty apart from the ancient council table in its center.''

==Culture and Traditions==

''The cornerstone of the comfortable and unchallenged residence of the magi in the castle of a mundane lord — a somewhat unusual situation for a covenant — is the manner in which they completely dominate the will of its ruler, the Baron of Montverte. Although the founding magi began with an alliance with the lord, for many generations the noble family has been completely but unwittingly subordinate to the whims of the magi. The magi are an invisible hand, guiding the noble family with a mixture of crafty persuasion and, where necessary, subtle magics. The status of the magi is seldom questioned; they are referred to by various vague euphemisms such as “the resident scholars” or “our valued guests.” The dealings of the covenant with the mundane world are mostly exercised through this pet baron — this has caused him problems with his peers on several occasions, although the strength of his defenses has always prevailed in any number of armed conflicts through the years. Other magi have frequently questioned the Hermetic legality of this arrangement. The magi of Montverte claim (rightly) that they have no oath of allegiance to this mundane lord, and (somewhat less honestly) that they leave him to run his mundane affairs by himself. The covenant is ruled by an inner council of five elder magi, of which the Archmaga Geirlaug is the unquestioned leader. Each member of this council has a different role (described below), and only they are permitted to participate in council meetings. The number of magi in this council is always five — whenever an existing member passes on, a replacement is promoted as needed, usually from the junior ranks, but sometimes instead from outside the covenant, such as a prominent magus from a loyal vassal. The arcane working of the secretive inner council is unknown to the ignorant junior magi, but is a subject of considerable speculation. It is in fact largely dysfunctional — each of its members exercises his role with great individual competence, but with little coordination. Council meetings have a veneer of politeness, with the magi appearing to be submissive to the rule of Geirlaug, but there is a subtle battle of wills underneath. Throughout its history, Montverte has usually had between one and three vassal covenants, which are subordinate to its will to a greater or lesser extent. Its vassals are often instruments of Montverte’s troublemaking, but benefit from the protection of a strong''
''liege. Due largely to the raiding undertaken by itself and its vassals, Montverte is one of the wealthiest covenants in the Tribunal, and its magi live in considerable luxury.''

==Magi==

''There are five elder magi who constitute the inner council. Traditionally, and currently, it is dominated by magi of Houses Flambeau and Tremere. The number and composition of the junior magi is left for the storyguide to determine, but it is suggested that they number between four and six; the covenant is especially suited to magi of Houses Tremere, Flambeau, Bonisagus, Verditius, and Jerbiton. There is likely a resident Redcap.''

===Geirlaug of House Flambeau===

''Age: 150? (Apparent age mid-60s) Personality Traits: Unpredictable +4, Reclusive +3, Vengeful +2''
''An ancient Flambeau Archmaga from the lineage of the covenant’s founder, Harivald, Geirlaug is an erratic, Twilight-ridden woman who has been the leader of Montverte for more than half a century, and who is very obviously a supreme master of Ignem magics. For many years now, she has hardly ever been seen in person but remains in her tower, an extreme recluse. Certainly she has spent many years in Twilight, although no one is exactly sure when, or for how long. It is widely rumored that her body has somehow become dependent on fire — often great flames may be seen within her tower. Geirlaug does not attend council in person; instead she appears in a great mirror at the head of the council table. She has the seeming of an elegant but elderly woman with stern, blazing eyes. Her mood is unpredictable; sometimes she is coherent, at other times cryptic, and her frame of mind is often reflected by the dance of flames in the background of the mirror’s image. Sometimes she is silent but watchful, at other times she is completely absent. The eccentric nature of her countenance has lead most of the others to question her sanity (although never openly). Geirlaug brooks no insubordination in the council and it acts largely according to her design. She bears an almost irrational hatred for the covenant''
''of Oleron, resulting from an ancient insult hurled by its former leader many decades ago, and an antipathy towards the other lieges. The covenant’s dealings and enemies reflect these prejudices.''

===Thormod of House Flambeau===

''Age: 87 (Apparent age 48) Personality Traits: Scheming +2, Tidy +2, Emotional –3''
''Thormod, filius Geirlaug, is in many ways the complete opposite of his mater. He is a scrupulously neat man who almost always keeps his emotions and plans hidden well away. He is widely believed to be a specialist in the Art of Perdo, although no one really knows anything at all about his preferences, magical or otherwise. Given that Thormod almost freakishly never exhibits any signs of weakness or doubt, he is secretly the most despised and feared of Montverte’s magi. His role is to act as the Hermetic ambassador of Montverte, a job that he conducts with cold efficiency, and he is also responsible for directing the covenant’s vassals. Unlike the other council members, Thormod appears to be utterly untroubled by the erratic behaviour of Geirlaug, and demonstrates absolute confidence in her leadership. If anyone knows her true state of mind, then it is her filius. But if he does know, he’s certainly not saying anything.''

===Eduardus of House Tytalus===

''Age: 67 (Apparent age 43) Personality Traits (persona of Edward): Persuasive +3, Charming +2, Lecherous +2''
''Eduardus joined House Tytalus several decades ago. He was apprenticed in House Jerbiton and possesses many of the talents one would expect of a Jerbiton magus — he is artistically cultured and has the Gentle Gift, for example. He serves the council as the steward of the castle, a job which in most covenants would be considered beneath a magus, but which in the case of Montverte has a special importance. The steward is actually a persona he adopts, with the name of Edward. However, the magus is so often in this persona that to everyone else''

[|

==Story Seed: Through a Mirror, Darkly==

''The face of Geirlaug in the council mirror begins to adopt two alternate personalities, which privately struggle against one other. What is causing this, and will the other magi (apart from Thormod, who seems totally unconcerned) notice, and take action? One possible explanation is that a powerful demon has usurped the Flambeau Archmaga and is attempting to rule the covenant in her stead, for its own nefarious ends.''

==Story Seed: Odin’s Magus==

''The secretive magus Thormod is in fact a prominent member of a Mystery Cult named the Children of Odin (see Chapter 10: Normandy Sagas, The Boar and the Dragon). He has learned to practice Viking magic, and uses his considerable political influence to further the goals of the cult. Perhaps he is related to its hierophant, Queen Skuld, either through blood or tryst.''

==Story Seed: The Pirate Covenant==

''The inner council of Montverte has cultivated an alliance with the pirate magi of Waddenzee, in the Rhine Tribunal (see Guardians of the Forests: The Rhine Tribunal, page 66), who reside on an island to the north of Flanders. Montverte is aware of the plan of certain Normandy covenants to secede and found a “Lotharingian Tribunal” (see Chapter 10, Normandy Sagas, The Lotharingian Tribunal). In cahoots with the pirate covenant, Montverte aims to thwart it. Waddenzee would initially join the secession but then suddenly declare allegiance to the Normandy Tribunal instead, as a vassal of Montverte. This would likely cripple the nascent Tribunal and partially encircle them in a trap of predatory Normandy covenants. For their part, Waddenzee would welcome membership of a Tribunal that tacitly admits their pirate raiding as legal.''

==Rotgiers de Gerberoy of House Tremere==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per –1 (1), Pre +1 (1), Com +1, Str +2 (2), Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +1 Age: 78 (52) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 6 (25) Confidence Score: 2 (10) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Affinity with Rego, Affinity with Terram, Cautious Sorcerer, Improved Characteristics, Large, Minor Magical Focus (certamen)*, Puissant Single Weapon, Subtle Magic; Feud, Proud; Deficient Form (Imaginem), Driven, Poor Hearing, Susceptibility to Faerie Power Personality Traits: Blunt +3, Honorable +2, Violent +1 Reputations: Tourney Champion 4 (Hermetic), Overbearing and Violent 2 (Local) Combat: Mace and heater shield (mounted): Init –2, Attack +15, Defense +13, Damage +10 Mace and heater shield (on foot): Init –2, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +10 Lance and heater shield (mounted): Init –1, Attack +16, Defense +13, Damage +7 Soak: +11 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24) Abilities: Animal Handling 1 (horses), Artes Liberales 3 (music), Code of Hermes 1 (acts of aggression), Concentration 3 (Rego), Craft Figurines 2 (of magi), Etiquette 2 (nobility), Finesse 5 (certamen), French 5 (Norman), Hunt 1 (mounted), Intrigue 2 (Hermetic), Latin 4 (Hermetic), Leadership 3 (battle), Magic Theory 5 (Rego), Normandy Lore 2 (nobility), Order of Hermes Lore 2 (Tourney), Parma Magica 5 (Corpus), Penetration 5 (Terram), Philosophiae 1 (Ritual magic), Profession: Scribe 2 (about Rego), Ride 3 (battle), Single Weapon 5+2 (heater shield), Teaching 2 (apprentices) Arts: Cr 10, In 7, Mu 7, Pe 17, Re 24; An 11, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 13, He 4, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 8, Te 14, Vi 7 Twilight Scars: Rotgiers instills an unnatural fear in weak-willed people, his''
''old wounds bleed anew whenever his magic strongly fatigues him, objects of metal worn by him never rust, he is deaf to compliments. Equipment: Full chain mail, mace, heater shield, lance. His ornate mace is enchanted as his talisman and his armor is imbued with protective effects. (The listed combat totals do not include the bonuses from these items.) Encumbrance: 2 (4) Spells Known: Piercing Lance of Bone (CrAn 20/+25), Mastery 2 (Penetration, Fast Casting) Soothe Pains of the Beast (CrAn 20/+23) The Wizard’s Mount (CrAn 20/+24), Mastery 1 (Multiple Casting) Beast of Outlandish Size (MuAn 15/+20) Agony of the Beast (PeAn 15/+30) Commanding the Harnessed Beast (ReAn 30/+37) Purification of the Festering Wounds (CrCo 20/+25) Preternatural Growth and Shrinking (MuCo 15/+22) Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude (MuCo 25/+22) Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo 25/+32) Stance of the Firm-Buttocked Knight (ReCo 20/+39) The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 30/+39) Posing the Silent Question (InMe 20/+18), Mastery 1 (Quiet Casting) Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20/+35), Mastery 1 (Quiet Casting) Wall of Protecting Stone (CrTe 25/+26) Edge of the Razor (MuTe 20/+25), Mastery 2 (Multiple Casting, Quiet Casting) Crest of the Earth Wave (ReTe 20/+40) The Unerring Lance (ReTe 20/+40)''
''The Earth Split Asunder (ReTe 30/+40) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 20/+26) Wind of Mundane Silence (PeVi 25/+28), Mastery 2 (Penetration, Quiet Casting) Maintaining the Demanding Spell (ReVi 30/+33) New Spells: Piercing Lance of Bone; CrAn 20, R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind: Creates a sharpened lance of hardened animal bone in the caster’s hand; this weapon has the same statistics as a normal lance. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Diam) Stance of the Firm-Buttocked Knight; ReCo 20, R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Ind: Prevents the caster from falling off a seat or saddle, even when vigorously disturbed. (Base 10, +2 Sun) The Unerring Lance; ReTe 20, R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind: Cast upon a thrusting weapon such as a lance or spear, this spell will allow it to move in precisely one direction only, directly forward, without any perpendicular deviation. A Rego Terram spell of higher level is needed to deflect it, otherwise it can only be dodged, not parried. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Diam, +1 complexity) Appearance: Rotgiers is a very large and burly middle-aged man, stern and gruff, with iron-grey hair and beard. When travelling, he usually adopts the trappings of a knight dressed in chain mail, carrying an ornate bejewelled mace and a giant shield bearing the arms of Montverte. Otherwise he wears his charcoalgrey Tremere robes over ostentatious clothes befitting a nobleman.''

|]
''he is indistinguishable from the real Eduardus, about whom very little is known. His primary function is to oversee the baron, and through him the mundane dealings of the covenant and castle. He is a trusted advisor to the noble family, often to be seen sitting by the baron’s side — the high chair of the baron is a centuries-old artifact that was enchanted by one of Montverte’s early magi with a subtle Mentem effect, so as to ensure its occupant’s compliance. (The drawback of continued use of this item has historically been a series of slightly Warped barons.) His secondary function is to ensure the smooth everyday running of the castle. Edward is a sociable and silver-tongued fellow, a womanizer who has entranced several of the female covenfolk, who provide him with valuable gossip that allows him to keep his finger on the pulse of the community. Eduardus is one of the few members of the purple Fideli, backing Buliste as the true Prima of House Tytalus. He is a proponent of''
''the Hippian school of thought (see Houses of Hermes: Societates).''

===Runild of House Tremere===

''Age: 64 (Apparent age 43) Personality Traits: Oblivious to Mundanes +3, Catlike +2, Inquisitive +1''
''The youngest member of the inner council, Runild, is quite unlike the domineering and larger-than-life personalities of the other four. She is a quiet and unassuming woman who is responsible for overseeing the magical resources of the covenant: its library, its vis stores, and the labwork of the junior magi who are required to donate seasons of work. Runild has just finished training her first apprentice, but has not yet gained her own voting sigil. Her familiar is a''
''black cat from the lineage of Jerbiton’s familiar, and she associates with all of Montverte’s numerous cats.''

==Covenfolk==

''The covenfolk of Montverte are synonymous with the household staff of the baron — the large retinue of servants and lackeys that one would expect of a landed noble. The grogs of Montverte, however, are rather too numerous, and too well trained and equipped for a typical baron. All but a trusted and select few of the serving folk and soldiers simply consider themselves part of the baronial household, and are largely ignorant of the truer and more arcane inner nature of the castle — they are unaware of the existence of the Order of Hermes and the fact that they live in a covenant.''

[|

==Rotgiers de Gerberoy of House Tremere (con’t)==

''Rotgiers, the senior Tremere magus of Montverte, takes great interest in and is responsible for the covenant’s martial affairs, organizing its defenses (mundane and otherwise) and its raiding activities. A formidable warrior, he has adopted the mannerisms and trappings of a knight — indeed the baron of Montverte considers him as such. The aggressive raiding conducted by his covenant is sometimes a bloody business, which he conducts ruthlessly, but he is known to treat his victims fairly. His familiar is an ancient warhorse named Simo. Rotgiers holds the''
''sigils of the majority of the Tribunal’s Tremere magi, which is not many since his House has a weak presence here. Rotgiers is renowned as a fearsome competitor in the Tribunal’s Tourney, especially in the joust and certamen contests. In the joust, two of his signature moves are a calculated lance strike that typically hits home with devastating effect despite the commonly employed Rego Terram defensive spells of his opponents, and a surprise attack with a suddenly con''
''jured lance of animal bone, which is immune to such magical defenses. He is not above employing some slightly underhand tactics to improve his chances if needed; his servants may surreptitiously gather an Arcane Connection to his likely opponent, which he secretly uses in conjunction with a prepared figurine to increase the penetration of the latter attack, or he will covertly assault his opponent’s magical defenses with a silently cast Wind of Mundane Silence.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
