''A location with a Magic aura is one where things are in some way superior to normal, or more real, as described in ArM5, page 184. The extent of this difference depends on the strength of the aura and, even at moderate levels, may not be immediately obvious. Most commonly, the air is clearer, colors more vivid, sounds more piercing, vegetation more lush. All Magic auras have an effect on the use of Hermetic magic and''
''other displays of supernatural power according to the rules in ArM5, page 183. Auras of level six and above cause Warping according to the rules in ArM5, pages 167-168. Magi have long debated the exact nature of these Magic auras in which their covenants are located. Most agree that in such areas, the boundary between the earthly world and the Magic Realm is weaker, allowing some measure of the magical energy of that pure''
''realm to leak through and infuse the region under the aura’s influence. It is commonly accepted that this constituent magical energy takes the form of “fluid vis,” although opinions differ as to the exact nature of this phenomenon. While this fluid vis is present everywhere, it flows into and is attracted to magical areas, and pools and concentrates there, forming an aura of power.''

[|
''Theories Concerning Magic Auras''
''Auras of supernatural power fall under the purview of the Hermetic Art of Vim, but the Hermetic theory and understanding of this subject is incomplete. Many Intellego Vim spells for auras work reliably, but magics which attempt to effect a change in an aura are often ineffective or unpredictable. Some magi have even died or entered Final Twilight during an attempt to increase the aura of their covenant. This lack of completeness in the theory is due in part to a lack of agreement among magi. There are two main areas in which opinions differ. Firstly, there is the philosophical question of what exactly the “fluid vis” is, and where (or what) it originates from. Secondly, there is the somewhat more practical issue of exactly how the activities of magi influence Magic auras. On the first question, some magi prefer to label the magical energy as “radiant vis,” broadly equating it to the “aether,” Aristotle‘s fifth element — the celestial fire that exists beyond the Lunar Sphere. Others still like to call it “tellurian vis,” implying that the earth itself is the wellspring of magic. Whichever the label that is chosen, it seems clear that fluid vis forms the “fuel” for magical spellcasting — the more fluid vis that is present, the stronger magics will be. Under this theory, raw vis is simply a manifestation of the''
''fluid vis that is highly concentrated into a physical form. When it is expended in spellcasting, for example, this fluid vis is released. As some magi have pointed out, this theory is not completely perfect, since fluidity (the quality of moisture) is antithetical to the rigidity of the dry quality, according to Aristotlean elemental theory. It has been noticed that some sources of vis that are located in Magic auras do not always yield the same number of pawns of vis. Some Hermetic theorists reckon that the size of the harvest may be a reflection of the health of the aura; that the fluid vis feeds the growth of vis in the same way as a nutrient feeds a plant. On the second matter, most magi believe — perhaps arrogantly — that their own practice of magic, such as performing labwork, has a beneficial effect on a Magic aura, theorizing that the mere repeated use of magic in an area will tend to cause fluid vis to pool. (Most magi equate benefit with strengthening, since stronger Magic auras are generally desirable to them.) Some hold that simply contemplating magic (such as during study) will enhance the latent strength of an aura. Most believe that potent magical accidents tend to strengthen Magic auras, and with good reason, since there were several times in the Order’s history, especially during the Schism War,''
''when this phenomenon was observed. However, there is at least one recorded instance of a Perdo Vim botch stunting an aura. There is one single magical activity, vis extraction, that is generally agreed to weaken a Magic aura, since it supposedly removes, converts, and concentrates some of the fluid vis into raw vis. A contrary theory, which uses the analogy of water in a pool for fluid vis in an aura, holds that vis extraction is actually beneficial, deepening the “pool” in much the same way that dredging a river channel will deepen it. Most magi are generally unaware of the precise impact their activities have on the Magic aura of their covenant, although these processes are at least partially understood by those who are well versed in the Art of Vim and who have undertaken a study of the subject. The functioning of auras is certainly a fertile area for research. Any effect that reliably manipulates a Magic aura should probably require at least a Major breakthrough or a Mystery Initiation. The rules for aura variation in this chapter presuppose that the mainstream viewpoints are correct (for example, vis extraction has a detrimental effect on an aura). You may wish to change some of the numbers around if Magic auras behave differently in your saga.''

|]
''Realms of Power Tethers''
''A tether is a particular object or circumstance of magical significance that acts like a magnet to the fluid vis, causing it to concentrate and pool around it to form a Magic aura. Nearly all Magic auras have a tether as their basis and center. Tethers may either be natural, consisting of earthly or astrological features that are inherent to a place such as a mountain peak or solar alignment, or preternatural, built by wizards or arising from other magical entities. Each individual natural tether has a score of 1 or 2; a preternatural tether may have a score between 1 (for the weakest) and 5 (for the strongest). If there is one tether present, then the base aura score is simply equal to the tether score. If multiple tethers are present, then the base aura score is determined as the natural aura score plus the preternatural aura''
''score. The natural aura score is equal to the sum of all natural tethers; it cannot exceed 5. The preternatural aura score is equal to the strongest preternatural tether, plus one for each additional tether. Likewise, it cannot exceed 5. A base aura score of greater than 5 thus always results from a combination of natural and preternatural tethers. Most such auras are legendary and those stronger still are extremely hard to reach, and dangerous to set foot in. If there are no tethers, the base aura score is 0. Absent any other influence, the tether(s) normally generate a Magic aura of the same strength as the base aura score. However, the actions of magi and the influence of other auras may cause the current aura score to deviate from the base score at any given time (see Aura Variation Rules, below).''
''Base Aura Score = natural aura score + preternatural aura score''
''Natural Aura Score (maximum 5) = sum of all natural tethers''
''Preternatural Aura Score (maximum 5) = strongest preternatural tether + 1 per additional tether''
''Natural Tethers''
''Particularly perfect or magnificent examples of natural features are quite often associated with low-level Magic auras and are the most common type of tether. Other aspects of the natural environment that can cause or enhance Magic auras are solar or astrological alignments, prevailing or perpetual weather conditions, perfect shapes, and antiquity. Magi have undertaken research to try and establish whether it is the aura that brings about perfection in the landscape or the natural features that cause the aura; results are inconclusive. Stronger auras occur when natural tethers combine; for example, in an area of outstanding natural beauty that is also astrologically favorable. The examples below describe only places with an aura up to a maximum score of 2, because individual perfect natural features have never been known to demonstrate a stronger aura. As noted above, combinations of such features can produce auras of up to 5 (see the insert on multiple tethers for examples). Some of the stronger auras might be aligned with Arts (see below). The following are just examples; it is certain that auras centered on other special natural features exist, also. Additional possibilities include valleys, cliffs, gorges, massifs, deserts, oases, springs, hills, islands, and so on.''

===Caves===

''Tether 1: A magnificent cavern displaying many natural pillars, stalagmites, stalactites, and other wondrous rock formations. A cave with walls and ceiling encrusted with crystals. Tether 2: A group of magnificent caverns linked by arches, tunnels, and shafts. Extensive caverns with some tunnels that lead down a long way towards the center of the Earth. As a result of Warping, inhabitants become accustomed to the enclosed environment and low light levels. Suitable Minor Flaws are Sensitive Sight (see Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Flaws), a Fear of open spaces, or Disfigured due to unnaturally pallid skin or strange-looking eyes adjusted to poor illumination.''
''''

===Forest===

''Tether 1: An ancient copse containing a few trees over seven hundred years old. An old forest with hardly a trace of human interference where the vegetation is lush; flowers, fruit, and fungi are larger than normal; insects, birds, and animals are a little larger and more healthy. Tether 2: Ancient forest, verdant and undisturbed, where flowers, fruit, and fungi are perfectly shaped and animals are noticeably larger than usual. As a result of Warping, inhabitants become attuned to the environment. Suitable Minor Flaws are a Fear of open spaces or Oversensitive to damage to vegetation. An Animal Companion might be acquired. A suitable Virtue could be Animal Ken or Wilderness Sense.''

===Ice===

''Tether 1: A perfectly shaped pyramidal mountain peak where the snow and ice retreat for just a few months in summer. A remote ice-bound valley surrounded by bare rocky summits. Tether 2: A cave in a crystal-clear glacier flowing from a pristine, angular mountain peak. A landscape made entirely of ice, fantastically sculpted by nature, which never melts. As a result of Warping, inhabitants become inured to the freezing temperature and brightness of sun on snow. Suitable Minor Flaws are Sensitive to Heat and Weak Sight (see Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Flaws), or possibly a Fear of vivid colors. Such an aura may also be found among the ice floes of the distant north, if the tales are to be believed.''

===Volcanic===

''Tether 1: A perfectly shaped, smoking volcanic cone that periodically emits ash and lava, sufficient to be spectacular but rarely catastrophic. An expanse of boiling mud and sulfurous pools. Tether 2: A vigorous and dangerous volcano that is most active at the turn of the seasons. A powerful, boiling hot geyser that spouts every seven hours. As a result of Warping, inhabitants become immune to sulfur in the air and water and can tolerate high temperatures. Suitable Minor Flaws are Weak Sense of Taste or Weak Sense of Smell, and Sensitive to Cold''
''(see Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Flaws). The obvious suitable Minor Virtue is an appropriate Lesser Immunity.''

===Water===

''Tether 1: Gentle rain falls almost constantly except when there is mist. There is very little ground that is not covered in water. A particularly beautiful or powerful waterfall. Tether 2: Rain falls continuously, often heavily, or there is always a thick fog. Inside a large waterfall or deep under the surface of a lake. As a result of Warping, inhabitants adapt to see clearly through the fog and are not bothered by the precipitation. Suitable Minor Flaws are Sensitive Sight  (see Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Flaws), a Weakness for natural bodies of water, and Disfigured on account of webbing between the digits or skin that cracks and flakes if not''
''permanently wet. A suitable Virtue might be Dowsing, or Great Immunity: Drowning.''

===Wind===

''Tether 1: Wind blows continuously, never dropping below a lively breeze whatever the weather nearby, and attractive or curiously shaped clouds swarm across the sky. Wind swirls constantly about a small permanent tornado; clouds are twisted into spiraling forms. Tether 2: A gale blows much of the time, often tossing towering dark clouds; storms rage in their upper levels. As a result of Warping, inhabitants become inured to the constant wind and adapt to catch sounds and scents even when upwind. Suitable Minor Flaws are Sensitive Hearing or Sensitive Smell (see Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Flaws), or the ability to see Visions in cloud shapes.''

[|
''Examples of Auras with Multiple Tethers''
''Base Aura Score 3: A very high waterfall broken into multiple white braids as it tumbles down over rocks, spray flying (natural tether 1), which always catches the morning sun and throws arcs of rainbow light all around (natural tether 1) before tumbling with a thunderous roar into a very deep pool (natural tether 1). Base Aura Score 3: An underwater location with several strong currents (natural tether 1) where water elementals are at home (preternatural tether 2). This aura is likely to be aligned with Aquam. Base Aura Score 5: Labyrinthine cave complexes (natural tether 2) where dragons or other magical creatures have dwelt for millennia (preternatural tether 1). At least one dragon still considers this to be home (preternatural tether 2). This aura might be aligned with Terram. Base Aura Score 5: A primeval forest untouched by man (natural tether 2), where some trees are semi-sentient and mobile (preternatural tether 2), and dryads tend the non-sentient trees (preternatural tether 2); not a safe, tame place at all. This aura might be aligned with Herbam or Animal. Base Aura Score 6: A thermally active site (natural tether 1) over the place where, at depth, fire elementals dwell''
''(preternatural tether 2) with fire-breathing dragons (preternatural tether 4). This aura is highly likely to be aligned with Ignem. Base Aura Score 6: The covenant of Durenmar, the domus magna of House Bonisagus, is located in a picturesque valley (natural tether 1) and has numerous strong preternatural tethers from its monuments and magic residues (maximum possible preternatural aura score of 5). Durenmar’s current aura score is 7, and has been for many years, due to the regular magical activities of its magi. Base Aura Score 7: A perfectly-shaped mountain peak (natural tether 1) where the rising and setting sun at the solstices tracks the edges of some of the arêtes (natural tether 2), and where crystal-clear ice and pure white snow lie all year round (natural tether 2); it is the home of frost giants (preternatural tether 2). This aura might be aligned with Ignem or Aquam. Base Aura Score 7: A cloud heaped up into the rough shape of a palace (natural tether 2), which is periodically torn to bits by a hurricane after which it reforms differently (natural tether 2); air elementals are at home here (preternatural tether 2) and winds are particularly strong here at the equinoxes (natural tether 1). This aura is highly likely to be aligned with Auram.''

|]
''Realms of Power Preternatural Tethers''
''A preternatural tether is simply one that does not have a natural origin, but is caused by mortals, magic beings, or vis. Individual tethers may have a score up to 5, and combinations of such tethers may produce a preternatural aura score of up to 5, as described above. Such tethers usually come in one of the following types: magic monuments, magic residues, magic beings, or vis sources.''

===Magic Monuments===

''Ancient buildings or constructs that are strongly associated with Magic might constitute a tether. Examples include temples, menhirs, stone circles, pyramids, cave paintings, and parts of ancient covenants. As a rule of thumb, these places can be given one point of tether score for every full century that they have seen active use. For example, a standing stone at the covenant of Durenmar, which has been used for more than four centuries, has a tether score of 4.''

===Magic Residues===

''Places that have borne witness to extremely powerful or legendary magics may constitute a tether, if the magics have left a permanent imprint. Such sites are usually associated with a particular event. It is suggested that these places can be given a tether score equal to (Ritual spell level equivalent of magics 40) / 10, rounded down. For example, the site of a casting of the 75thlevel spell Shadow of Life Renewed might have a tether score of 3.''

===Magic Beings===

''Some kinds of magical beings, which may be animals, plants, ghosts, elementals, and so on, form tethers. Any place that they currently inhabit, and which they have inhabited for at least a year, has a tether score equal to (being’s Might / 10), rounded down. For example, a cave inhabited by a dragon with a Might score of 40 has a tether score of 4. If such a being moves away or is destroyed, the tether score drops by one point''
''for every year until it vanishes. The site of the death or burial of a magical being, or a place where a magical being spent at least half its life, has a permanent tether equal to (being’s Might / 20), rounded down. Other kinds of magical beings do not generate an aura, but are often instead dependent on some other Magic aura (such as that arising at a monument) for their abode.''

===Vis Sources===

''Places where raw vis manifests may also form a tether for a Magic aura, especially if the vis harvest is large. Whether the aura causes the vis to manifest, or vice versa, is a subject for some debate, although most magi think that a harvest of vis is a by-product of an aura, not a cause of an aura. As a rule of thumb, a source of vis not already in the presence of a tether may be given a tether score equal to (pawns harvested per year / 3), rounding down. For example, a source of vis yielding six pawns may have a tether score of 2.''
''Aura Variation Rules''
''The strength of a Magic aura is not always the same as its base aura score; in particular, weak Magic auras can even arise without a tether, although such auras are somewhat rare and usually short lived. The actions of magi (and other wizards) and the presence of a foreign aura that impinges on the aura may cause its score to become either higher or lower than the base aura score. Most forms of magical activity tend to add to the reserve of fluid vis and thus strengthen an aura, except for vis extraction, which removes fluid vis from an aura’s reserve, and tends to weaken it. The expenditure of raw vis in the aura converts it into new fluid vis and thus adds to the aura. For example, the casting of Ritual spells such as Aegis of the Hearth, the use of vis in certamen, and study from vis all add to the fluid vis reserve. However, using vis to enchant an item, attune a familiar, or create a Longevity Ritual does not count; in these cases the vis is not released, but is instead concentrated into a mobile entity (an item, beast, or person, respectively) that is not attached to the aura, and which may leave it. Impinging foreign auras tend to influence a Magic aura in a manner consistent with the interaction of the realms (see the''

[|
''Yearly Aura Modifier''
''At the end of each year, the yearly aura modifier is the sum of all relevant effects from the table below. It cannot exceed +9 or be less than –9. If the Magic aura fluctuates with respect to time (for example, changing in strength between day and night, or from''
''season to season), treat the base aura score as that which occurs most frequently, and use this value for comparison. If two strengths occur with equal frequency, take the lower of the two. If there is a regio, the aura score is the aura strength at the top level.''
''Effect Add to Modifier Current aura score differs from base aura score +3 x (base aura  score – current  aura score) Stronger foreign Magic aura impinges on aura +2 Stronger foreign Faerie aura impinges on aura +1 Stronger foreign Divine aura impinges on aura –6 Stronger foreign Infernal aura impinges on aura –2 Magical activity (labwork and non-Ritual spellcasting)  of a typical Spring covenant +1 Magical activity (labwork and non-Ritual spellcasting)  of a typical Summer covenant +2 Magical activity (labwork and non-Ritual spellcasting)  of a typical Autumn or Winter covenant +3 Beneficial magical botch (2 or more Warping Points gained) +1 Detrimental magical botch (2 or more Warping Points gained) –1 Expenditure of vis (3 or more pawns) in study, +1 per instance spellcasting, or certamen Extraction of vis from aura –1 per instance  (one season by  one magus)''

|]
''Realm Interaction Table in ArM5, page 183). That is to say, Magic and Faerie auras have a beneficial effect, whereas Divine and Infernal auras have a detrimental effect. An “impinging” aura may be either one that occupies the same space, or a neighboring one that brushes up against the Magic aura. In order to determine any possible changes in a Magic aura, you may calculate its yearly aura modifier (see insert). This number is separate from and should not be confused with the aura score. If the yearly aura modifier is between –3 and +3, then do nothing — in this case there are no strong prevailing effects and the aura remains stable. If the yearly aura modifier is +4 or greater, consult the Aura Strengthening Table (see insert). If it is –4 or less, consult the Aura Weakening Table (see insert). The base number of botch dice for rolls on either table is zero. However, every roll made on either table that results in a 9 or more causes the number of botch dice for subsequent rolls to increase by one; a year in which no roll at all is made causes the number of botch dice to decrease by one. These effects are cumulative. For example, after four successive years of aura-strengthening outcomes, the number of botch dice is four. After an unexceptional year with a yearly aura modifier of 0, say, the number of botch dice drops back to three. Repeated fluctuations and instabilities in an aura thus mean that a fracturing into a regio (which occurs on a botch) becomes increasingly likely. An extremely potent magical botch may also trigger an immediate roll on either the Aura Strengthening or Aura Weakening Tables. Magical botches of moderate severity, resulting in a gain of 2 or more Warping Points, will affect the yearly aura modifier in an unpredictable fashion. The majority of such botches add to the fluid vis reserve and are beneficial to an aura, but some — most usually botches with the Art of Perdo — inadvertently destroy fluid vis and are detrimental. You may wish to monitor the player covenant’s aura, as well as any other important auras that the characters frequently encounter. You will probably not want to monitor any other Magic auras in your saga, such as those of other covenants. Mostly, the aura of a covenant should be fairly stable, with the yearly aura modifier sure to be between –3 and +3. In such years, there is no need to calculate the modifier. Even abnormal yearly aura modifiers will only cause an occasional change in aura strength, usually as a result of major events in the saga or perhaps due to deliberate efforts by magi. In the usual course of events, activities''

[|
''Aura Strengthening Table''
''Roll a stress die and add the yearly aura modifier, or choose a suitable outcome. Unless otherwise stated each outcome is temporary, and lasts for at most one year. If there is a regio, increases in aura strength apply only to the top level.''
''Total: Botch  Regio level appears: The area in which the aura is located becomes a regio, if it was not one previously, with a mundane level and a top level whose aura is the same as the overall aura score. If there is already a regio, then a new level appears. Everyone present in the aura receives 3 Warping Points. Regiones can appear either benignly or in a troublesome fashion (see below).''
''Total: 0 – 6  No change to aura.''
''Total: 7+  Symptoms of aura strengthening noticed: See the insert for some suggestions.''
''Total: 9 Latent aura strengthening: Add 3 to next year’s aura modifier.''
''Total: 10  Spontaneous magic effects: Minor random magical effects spontaneously appear; any persons targeted by such effects gain a Warping Point. Spellcasting totals for spontaneous magic receive a bonus of up to +3.''
''Total: 11  Temporary aura increase: The aura score increases by 1 for one season.''
''Total: 12  Vis creation: 1 to 3 pawns of vis spontaneously manifest in the aura. Either the harvest of an existing source of vis is increased, or the vis appears somewhere else, typically growing or coalescing in some fashion, which may not necessarily be noticed. This effect is temporary, but the vis gained is real and permanent.''
''Total: 13  Patches of stronger aura: The aura strength increases by 1 in part of the aura, such as one chamber or laboratory, perhaps at the center of the aura. Any mundane resident in this part of the aura gains a Warping Point.''
''Total: 14  Aura expands (permanent): The aura expands outward by several yards, so that it covers more physical space.''
''Total: 15 – 20  Current aura score increases 1 (permanent).''
''Total: 21+  Re-roll twice on this table, treating any total of 21+ as a 20.''
''Aura Weakening Table''
''Roll a stress die and add the yearly aura modifier (ignoring the minus sign), or choose a suitable outcome. Unless otherwise stated each outcome is temporary, and lasts for at most one year. If there is a regio, decreases in aura strength apply only to the top level.''
''Total: Botch  Regio level disappears: If there is a regio present, one of its levels disappears (see below). Everyone present in that level receives 3 Warping Points. If there is no regio then a new regio arises, but all the buildings and inhabitants in the area retreat into the magical level, leaving the mundane level deserted and bereft of any signs of magic. Everyone present in the aura receives 3 Warping Points.''
''Total: 0 – 6  No change to aura.''
''Total: 7+  Symptoms of aura weakening noticed: See the insert for some suggestions.''
''Total: 9 Latent aura weakening: Subtract 3 from next year’s aura modifier.''
''Total: 10  Spontaneous magic stifled: Spellcasting totals for spontaneous magic receive a penalty of up to -3.''
''Total: 11  Temporary aura decrease: The aura score decreases by 1 for one season.''
''Total: 12  Vis wasting: 1 to 3 pawns of vis in the aura expire and lose their magical power. Either the harvest of an existing source of vis is decreased, or vis stored anywhere in the aura expires, for example rotting, shrivelling, or drying up, which may not necessarily be noticed. This effect is temporary, but the loss of vis is real and permanent.''
''Total: 13  Patches of weaker aura: The aura strength decreases by 1 in part of the aura, such as one chamber or laboratory, perhaps at the edge of the aura.''
''Total: 14  Aura contracts (permanent): The aura contracts inward by several yards, so that it covers less physical space.''
''Total: 15 – 20  Current aura score decreases 1 (permanent).''
''Total: 21+  Re-roll twice on this table, treating any total of 21+ as a 20.''

|]
''that benefit the aura are mostly canceled out by vis extraction. However, a covenant that relentlessly and greedily extracts vis may find its aura temporarily dropping in strength, whereas a vis-rich covenant that is profligate with Ritual magic might find its aura eventually increasing. Some old, autumn covenants have accumulated quite a strong Magic aura mostly from the activities of their magi alone, with only weak tethers.''
''Symptoms of Aura Variation''
''This is a suggested list of phenomena that may be subtly influenced by a Magic aura. Changes in these factors may reflect a corresponding change in the aura strength. These effects can also be used as story seeds,''
''either precipitating a story by themselves or as hints to other events.''

===Magical Inhabitants===

''If a Magic aura strengthens, resident magical creatures may be seen to be prospering. If there are no such creatures, they may arrive. If the aura weakens, such magical residents may suffer or decline, or they may decide to leave.''

===Animals, Vegetables, and Minerals===

''The prosperity and condition of flora and fauna in and around the aura may reflect its strength. The sizes of flocks and harvests may increase if the aura strengthens, and animals and plants may become more perfect. Any''
''other natural resources gathered in the aura — such as water from a spring or well, or gemstones from a mine — may also increase in size, number, or perfection. Such prosperity may be reversed in the case of a weakening aura.''

===Weather and Air===

''With a stronger aura, the weather tends to become more extreme and the air is often crisper or fresher, with a clean scent or tingle in the air. In a weaker aura, the weather may be drearier and more mundane, and the air more stale.''

===Mood===

''A stronger Magic aura tends to enhance the eccentricity and creativity of its inhabitants; for instance, artists may find themselves possessed of heightened inspiration. In a weaker aura, the inhabitants may find themselves more depressed, or that original thought is stultified.''

===Sentience===

''If a Magic aura becomes stronger, formerly dumb creatures and objects may develop sentience, intelligence, or the ability to speak. If the aura dwindles, however, such entities may find their wits dulled, or may fall silent.''

===Signs and Supernatural Abilities===

''The strengthening of a Magic aura may be reflected by an increase in portents, visions, and dreams experienced and observed by the inhabitants. Or they may develop other strange new abilities. If an aura weakens, such occurrences become less frequent, signs become muddied, and eldritch talents are lost. As a rule of thumb, for every point by which the aura score increases, one inhabitant can be (unwittingly) given a new Supernatural Virtue, or a character with an existing Supernatural Ability may receive 20 experience points in that Ability. It is best to choose a character who has recently gained a Warping Score of 5 and who thus qualifies for a new Minor Virtue. This process can be reversed if the aura weakens; a character with a Supernatural Ability loses 20 experience points. If this takes the Ability score to zero, the ability can no longer be used.''

[|
''Aura Variation Story Seeds''

===Creature Comforts===

''The covenant’s strengthening aura attracts a powerful magical creature, whose presence will be a boon for the covenant. However, it will need to be accommodated in a lair and it comes with certain unsavoury habits, which may dismay the locals.''

===The Squandered Source===

''The covenant’s weakening aura causes a magical creature, whose presence is welcomed on account of the vis it produces, to leave in search of a stronger Magic aura. Unless the magi can persuade it to stay or restore their aura, they will lose a source of vis.''

===a Mundane Mood===

''A bad mood and poor work ethic is noticed among the covenfolk. The magi suspect a sinister influence, but the true cause, which they have overlooked, is simply their slowly weakening aura and the increasing mundanity that results.''

===Wizards’ Windfall===

''One of the covenant’s natural resources increases in quality to such an extent that its value is greatly enhanced, becoming a viable source of monetary income.''

===Foul Airs===

''An outbreak of disease in nearby lands is blamed on foul airs. A large group of peasants arrive from a low-lying village to escape the bad airs and come to the covenant, where they have heard that the air is much more pleasant.''

===The Statue’s Secret===

''An ancient statue at the covenant develops the ability to speak as a result of a strengthening aura, and reveals a hidden clue about the site’s history.''

===Tome of Prophecy===

''The otherwise mundane diary of one of the covenant’s educated servants is discovered to be unnaturally accurate in its predictions, causing the magi to clamour eagerly over this “tome of prophecy.”''

|]
''Magic Magic Regiones''
''Regiones (see ArM5, page 189) are found within some Magic auras and some covenants. A regio in a covenant typically provides a number of benefits, such as being able to guard more easily against intrusion into magical areas, separating the magi from the covenfolk, and simply providing more space. Regiones can, however, be a bit of a mixed blessing, and their appearance often causes problems. They may come to occur within a Magic aura in several ways. The most usual cause of a Magic regio is a powerful magical event or accident. Magic auras are places where the mundane world begins to overlap with the Magic realm. Where a change to a Magic aura happens too fast or too powerfully, the fabric of reality is put under too much stress and it tears, causing the aura to fracture into one or more regio levels. Irencillia, the domus magna of House Merinita, is an example of a regio that has arisen in this fashion (although their aura is Faerie, not Magic). Criamon magi often view such a regio as a type of adulteration (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 53). Hermetic magi have yet to discover any reliable and trustworthy means of creating a Magic regio in such a fashion. As noted above in the rules for aura variation, rapid and repeated instabilities in an aura, reflected by the number of botch dice for Aura Strengthening and Weakening rolls, increases the chance that a regio will arise. If this happens (a botch outcome), the new regio has two levels — a mundane level (aura 0) and a level with aura equal to the overall aura score. Everyone present in the aura receives 3 Warping Points (This requires all magus characters to roll for Twilight). If there is already a regio, then an additional intermediate level arises; determine the aura of such new levels randomly. A regio can never achieve more levels than the aura score plus 1, however. Each level must have a different aura strength, which cannot exceed the overall aura score (which is always the same as the top-level aura strength). If there is a double botch or worse, all Warping Points gained are doubled, and the aura fracturing occurs in a highly inconvenient or dangerous way. For example, the sancta of the magi are found to be on the mundane level, but the guest quarters and the barracks are on the top level, or there is no way that can be''
''found to navigate between the levels. If the botch is not so severe, you may assume that most of the aura’s contents (the buildings, if the aura is that of a covenant) occur at the top level. It is possible to navigate the levels without magic, although this typically requires a special route or method that may need to be discovered and practiced. Lower levels might either appear as a ruined or empty version of the top level, or as an exact or similar copy of it. In the former case, a covenant’s aura fracturing could appear to an outside observer as if the covenant itself has been either destroyed or abandoned, which would likely require a good cover story. The appearance of a new regio in this fashion is rarely a positive event. All characters undergo Warping, typically causing one or more of the magi to experience Twilight. A great deal of chaos and confusion among the covenfolk is caused by the appearance of a new level of existence in their home, and''
''injuries and even deaths may result. In the case of a double botch (or worse), then the experience should be especially bad. In either case, the creation of a regio is a good opportunity for a story, and the storyguide should determine the precise effects. The appearance of new regio levels in an existing Magic regio is somewhat less troublesome than the instantiation of a new regio. The upheaval for the inhabitants is less, although Warping is still suffered. Magic regiones can also arise due to the impingement of a stronger foreign aura, but this is significantly rarer, at least for covenants. The foreign aura compresses the area of the Magic aura so strongly that the Magic appears to vanish. Usually the Magic aura has indeed vanished, but sometimes it will instead move up into a regio, leaving the lower level in contact with the foreign aura. Little is known about any other mechanisms for the creation of Magic regiones.''
''Some magi have speculated that the secret of performing this feat is known to the practitioners of a Mystery Cult, perhaps the Cult of Mercury. Other magi — usually those who have visited the Magic Realm and experienced Twilight — have claimed that the process of creating a regio is easier and more stable if it is done from the Magic Realm itself. If the aura score of a regio decreases, then the aura strength of the top regio level will usually decrease. The exception is if there is''
''already a regio level whose strength is equal to the new, lower aura score; in this case, the strengths of the levels do not change, but the top regio level vanishes. When a regio level vanishes, it becomes utterly inaccessible, and all living things in it immediately drop down to the next-lower level and gain 3 Warping Points. This could even cause magi to lose access to their sancta and possessions. It is a matter of speculation whether such disappeared regio levels are destroyed or merely''
''dormant, but there is at least one documented case of a “lost” regio level reappearing intact after many years of absence. If the aura score of a regio increases, then the strength of the top regio level will usually increase. This does not cause any new regio levels to come into existence. The exception is if there exists a vanished or dormant regio level of strength equal to the new, higher aura score; in this case the dormant level might become accessible again.''

[|
''New Spells and Spell Guidelines for Auras''
''Although magi have yet to master the art of manipulating and creating Magic auras and regiones, that doesn‘t stop them from trying, and some have invented Ritual spells that they claim will strengthen auras or even create regio levels. The few magi and covenants that have tried these spells, however, report varying degrees of success (and, more rarely, disaster). Magic auras might conceivably be created or improved simply by the repeated expenditure of vis, although this is certainly not a cost-effective use of vis. The ability to create permanent tethers lies beyond standard Hermetic magic, although magi who have been initiated into the Mystery of Hermetic Architecture have a reliable — albeit difficult — method of improving a magic aura by such means; see The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 100. Under the rules presented here, a Creo Vim structural enhancement to increase the aura score by 1 point should be interpreted as creating a new preternatural tether of sufficient strength to increase the preternatural aura score by 1 point. It is also possible that other Mercurian rituals may exist that can accomplish this feat. The Founder Verditius was rumored by some to have the ability to create portable tethers, known as magestones. Durenmar and an urban covenant in the Rhine Tribunal are secretly in possession of a small number of such stones.''

===New Creo Vim Guideline===

''General:	Potentially strengthen a Magic aura; roll on the Aura Strengthening Table with a modifier equal to magnitude; the modifier must be 0 or greater, thus the minimum possible base level is 4 (Ritual).''

===New Creo Vim Spells===

''Feeding the Font of the Covenant CrVi General R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Boundary, Ritual Causes an immediate roll on the Aura Strengthening Table for the Magic aura in which it is cast, with a modifier equal to the spell’s magnitude minus five, adding one to the number of botch dice for this roll and for subsequent yearly rolls. The modifier must be 0 or greater, thus the minimum possible spell level is 25. The yearly aura modifier (including the +1 bonus from the casting of this spell) does not add to the roll. If the casting of this spell is botched, a suitable outcome might be either to roll as above, but on the Aura Weakening Table instead, or to make the roll an automatic botch, resulting in the regio outcome. (Base effect, +1 Touch, +4 Boundary)''
''Stratifying the Subtle Realities CrVi General R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Boundary, Ritual Req: Muto A variant of Feeding the Font of the Covenant, this spell likewise causes an immediate roll on the Aura Strengthening Table for the Magic aura in which it is cast, with a modifier equal to the spell’s magnitude minus 6, but treating a roll of 2 as a 0 and adding five to the number of botch dice for this roll and for subsequent yearly rolls, meaning that a regio (or new regio levels) is somewhat more likely to result. The modifier must be 0 or greater, thus the minimum possible spell level is 30. (Base effect, +1 Touch, +4 Boundary, +1 Muto requisite)''

===New Intellego Vim Guideline===

''Level 4:	 Discern the alignment of an aura.''

===New Perdo Vim Guideline===

''General:	 Potentially weaken a Magic aura; roll on the Aura Weakening Table with a modifier equal to magnitude; the modifier must be 0 or greater, thus the minimum possible base level is 4 (Ritual).''

===New Perdo Vim Spell===

''Stripping the Superfluous Realities PeVi 30 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Boundary, Ritual Req: Muto An inverse variant of Stratifying the Subtle Realities, this spell causes an immediate roll on the Aura Weakening Table for the Magic regio in which it is cast, with a modifier equal to 0, but treating a roll of 2 as a 0 and adding five to the number of botch dice for this roll and for subsequent yearly rolls. If a botch results then the desired effect occurs, which is that the regio level in which it is cast is destroyed. Even if this spell does not immediately remove the targeted regio level, the extra botch dice for subsequent rolls in following years might cause it to later vanish. Depending on the outcome of the roll, this spell might have the (probably) unwanted side effect of weakening the aura instead. If the casting of this spell is botched, suitable outcomes might be to roll as above, but on the Aura Strengthening Table instead, to inadvertently destroy the wrong regio level, or to otherwise corrupt the structure of the regio. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +4 Boundary, +1 Muto requisite)''

|]
''Magic Aligned Auras''
''Most Magic auras are not aligned in any special way, and few magi are aware of the existence of such unusual auras. No aura has more than one special aspect, of which the following are a few examples. If it happens that more than one of the following is applicable — for example, if an aura is sustained by a natural feature tether of level 5 aligned with Auram and is the home of a Magic creature aligned with Greed that is powerful enough to generate a tether of level 2 — the level of the aura benefits from both but only the Auram alignment is discernible since it is the stronger. An Intellego Vim spell similar to Sense of Magical Power (ArM5, page 157) can be used to determine whether the aura is one of the following special types, but a different spell is required from the one used to establish that the aura is Magic, and the spell must be modified to test for each variant. For example, an Intellego Vim spell might be cast to ask the question “Is this aura aligned with hunger?”; a slightly different spell is needed to ask the question “Is this aura aligned with thirst?”, and another to test “Is this aura aligned with Mentem?”. Auras of this type up to and including level 5 are generally safe to inhabit. At higher levels, those who live there without having a Magic mystical ability (e.g. The Gift) suffer permanent Warping and thus gradually become attuned to the locale, while even visitors may be affected temporarily. At its most extreme, inhabitants become so adjusted to the demands of the place that they find it very hard to leave.''
''Auras that Enhance Emotions''
''There are some Magic auras that can have a direct effect on the emotions and behavior of those who venture into them. This does not affect characters with a supernatural ability derived from the Magic realm, (for example The Gift), but others find that they acquire a new Personality Trait or that an existing one is modified. The exception is that this cannot alter an Essential Trait. After spending a few minutes in such an aura, a character gains a temporary new Personality Trait or a modification to an existing one, if he happens to have something that supports or opposes the nature of the aura, according to the Aura Effect Table. The temporary effect fades within minutes once the character leaves the aura, although any permanent Warping acquired there remains. To the perceptive, the nature of the aura may be apparent in their surroundings. At low aura levels, things that spend all or most of their time within the aura show slight changes in line with the nature of the aura. At higher levels, the effects become stronger and become noticeable in things temporarily under their influence. At the highest levels, the enhancements are very obvious and resident creatures are archetypes embodying the Trait or feeling. Examples of such emotion-enhancing auras include: Aggressive: Leaves are pointed and have sharp edges, many plants have big, sharp thorns; flowers shed irritant pollen; scents''
''are unpleasant. Insects and animals are more aggressive than normal and have the armaments (bigger horns and claws, larger stingers, sharper teeth, etc.) to carry it through; at high levels some creatures acquire natural weapons not normal to the species. Edged weapons grow sharper. People become more aggressive such that spontaneous fights break out. Carefree: Creatures display less wariness than usual; people become relaxed, losing all motivation to do anything but take their ease in the stronger auras. Communicative: Plants gesticulate. Animals are very vocal at low levels; as the aura increases in strength they may sound as if they are trying to talk, and at the highest levels they actually can. Stone, even landscape, molds itself to try to convey information (usually about itself). People become more garrulous and may be unable to keep secrets. Respectful: People become more concerned for the feelings and well-being of others, first other people then creatures and plants; in the strongest auras they acquire a reverence for life so extreme that walking on grass is impossible.''

[|
''Story Seed: Uniformity''
''A scroll at Harco reports a possibly unique locality with a Magic aura that was once visited by a Redcap. She describes walking through a region that was entirely typical of the area she was traveling through, and soon finding that the environs were becoming more uniform and eventually devoid of identifiable landmarks. It became so much the same in all directions that she started to feel disorientated and feared becoming lost in this featureless landscape. Eventually she found her way out, or was helped by a resident of that bland place, but was unable to say for sure where she had been.''
''Aligned Aura Example''
''Two of the covenant’s grogs are escorting Bernard, a young novice, back to the priory where he lives. They have to go through the forest but he assures them he knows the way. Before long they are lost and enter an area under the influence of an ancient standing stone. It has started to get dark so they decide to make a temporary camp for the night. Bernard is already anxious about the dangers he perceives all around, but puts his faith in prayer and says nothing as he settles down to try and sleep.''
''They have camped in a place with a Magic aura of level 3 that induces fear. The grogs, Paul (normally Brave +3) and Ignatio (normally Courageous +2), are feeling just a little less confident about the strange noises in the dark than usual. Their Personality Traits are adjusted by Fearful +1 and are now at +2 and +1 respectively. Bernard is normally Cowardly +2 but the aura has enhanced this to +3 and he is soon begging the others to draw their swords and protect him from the wild beasts he knows are coming to eat them.''
''Aura Effect Table''
''Aura Personality Trait Level Adjustment 1 – 3 +1 4 – 6 +2 7 – 10 +3''

|]
''Realms of Power Auras Aligned with Arts''
''Rarely, an aura promotes activities in a way that magi interpret as an Art alignment. Sometimes such an aura is found where magic of a particular sort was practiced over a long time. Often these are sites associated in folk memory with pagan worship or working of ancient magic. Some in the Order claim that study of such places was a key component in the development of Magic Theory. There are powerful Magic creatures in the world closely aligned with one Form. The long-term abode of that creature gradually acquires a Magic aura, and sometimes this becomes colored by the nature of the entity. Some strong auras that develop around natural features are similarly aligned with one of the Forms of Hermetic magic (see above). At the storyguide’s discretion, instead of the Warping effects suggested above, manifestations of the Form may occur (see below). Because auras of this type behave as if aligned with the Techniques and Forms, they provide a bonus equal to the aura level to the Casting Score for any spell cast under their influence that uses the relevant Art. Thus, the aura modifer counts double when calculating the Casting Score. In the same way, the aura strength gives a bonus to appropriate laboratory activities, so counts double when calculating the Lab Total. Benefits also apply to spell-like effects produced in other ways; for example, by non-Hermetic magic. A creature with Might of the same type as the aura’s alignment need expend 1 point less than usual to use a Power, if the usual cost is greater than 0. Such auras do not impose a penalty for use of an “opposed” Art; i.e. alignment with Perdo does not hinder use of Creo, and alignment with Aquam does not penalize Ignem. Some examples of Art-aligned auras are: Animal: Inhabitants gradually acquire characteristics — physical, behavioral, or both — of a suitable animal. The choice may be obvious from the nature of the character, or can be selected by the storyguide. Aquam: Inhabitants may find their skin cracks if not kept wet. A character with a Warping Score over 8 may move by flowing. Auram: Inhabitants may become oblivious to weather. A Warping Score of 8+ can push a character to lose solidity, becoming gaseous. Corpus: Inhabitants become less likely to suffer minor illness, and scratches heal quickly. This isn’t strong enough to affect recovery from wounds and disease until a Warping Score of 6 is reached, when the character gains a bonus to Recovery Totals based on aura strength. Creo: Things are healthy and grow strongly, and are more abundant and/or larger than usual for a Magic aura; at the highest aura levels, things spoken of appear. An ex''
''ample is the site of fertility rites. Herbam: Inhabitants may grow hair of grass or wooden toenails and fingernails. Warping Scores of 6+ cause skin to become bark and slow down movement significantly. Ignem: Inhabitants may develop body temperatures above or below the norm, or their skin may start to glow softly. Imaginem: Inhabitants with a Warping Score of 6+ may be perceived more strongly by one sense than any other; they may be vivid to sight but scarcely audible, or perhaps almost invisible but easy to hear or smell. Intellego: There is a particular clarity in the air; sounds travel well; at the highest levels, intuition is strong. For instance, at a site where the stars were studied to learn of current and future events. Mentem: Inhabitants may acquire a degree of telepathy, or an affinity with ghosts. Muto: At low aura levels, things never look quite the same twice; at the highest levels, changes are so blatant that it is perilous to be there — grogs can turn into pigs, a sword into a flower, etc. An example is Circe’s cave. Perdo: At low aura levels, things decay and crumble faster than usual; at higher levels, the damage is dangerous. For instance, at a site of funeral rites or destructive rituals. Rego: At moderate aura levels, a regularity in the landscape, in the spacing of trees, and the like. A site where magic was used to exert control would be one example. Terram: Inhabitants may develop stone toenails and fingernails, or mottled skin like the local rock type, and reactions are slower. Vim: Inhabitants may develop any type of weirdness that the troupe agrees is interesting. At a Warping Score of 6, unGifted characters are likely to acquire the Magical Air Flaw.''
''Other Aligned Auras''
''There are a very few auras with alignments that manifest that are not part of an Art. Such an aura has an effect on what goes on inside it in an appropriate way, depending on the strength of the aura. A few examples follow: Healing: Add half the aura strength (round up) to the Recovery Total for wounds or disease. Luck: At the storyguide’s discretion, add a bonus of +1, +2 (for an aura of strength 5 to 8), or +3 to rolls where luck plays a significant role in the outcome for all characters in the aura, including those who already have an advantage from the Minor Virtue Luck. Distracting: Characters daydream or their attention flits about. Concentration rolls should be more frequent, and at aura levels of 5+, concentration is hard to maintain (set Ease Factors 3 higher than normal).''

[|
''Covenant Boons and Hooks''
''When designing a covenant, the troupe may select from the following, in addition to those given in ArM5, Chapter 6 and Covenants, Chapter 2. The aura may have only one alignment, but that may produce both a Boon and a Hook.''

===Major Site Boon===

''Fine Aura: The Magic aura of the covenant has an alignment that benefits most of those within it. For example, it is has the characteristic “lucky” or is favorable for healing.''

===Minor Site Boon===

''Favorable Aura: The Magic aura of the covenant has an alignment that favors one particular activity. For example, it is aligned with one of the Arts, or with a characteristic that is often beneficial, such as “attentive” or “respectful.”''

===Minor Site Hook===

''Troublesome Aura: The Magic aura of the covenant has an alignment that sometimes makes activities that should have been simple much harder, and thus provokes stories. An aura aligned to Perdo is an example, as would be one aligned to “rashness,” or “discourtesy.”''
''Aligning an Aura''
''The library at Durenmar contains several reports of experiments to deliberately impose an alignment on an existing Magic aura. One researcher tried using an enchanted item to repeatedly cast Creo Ignem spells over a long period in hopes of aligning an aura with Ignem, without success. Another set grogs to telling jokes and singing comic songs, in hopes of creating an aura alignment with jollity. As yet no reliable way of imposing an alignment has been discovered, although serious botches have produced detrimental alignments on more than one occasion.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
