''The power of magic touches inanimate objects as often as it touches the living. Sometimes that power becomes concentrated as raw vis. While all raw vis is valuable to magi, rare forms have additional powers that make them even more desirable. Some items are not vis, but are still imbued with power by the realm of Magic; these are the Herbs and Objects of Virtue. Items and plants can also be awakened, giving them a certain amount of consciousness, but generally no Might score. Finally, the power of Magic can fully animate pure substances, creating the elementals.''
''Vis''
''Vis is the physical embodiment of magic, essentially raw magical power. Within vis, magic exists in its most concentrated form; as such, vis is capable of producing powerful magical effects either when used in a spell or completely on its own. Vis is also the lifeblood of the Order of Hermes. It powers the magi’s spells, serves as their currency, and is the source of many of their conflicts. Vis is such an integral part of Hermetic life that most magi take its existence for granted and only stop to ask where they can get more of it. In addition to the perpetual hunt for vis, the vis itself can provide a source of adventures and obstacles for characters to overcome.''
''Extraordinary Vis''
''In some very special places of great magical power, vis can take on the attributes of the magic that produces it — giving it powers beyond its normal Hermetic uses. This vis is usually found within the upper levels of powerful regiones, in potent auras, or within the remains of great magical creatures.''
''Extraordinary vis may emulate a magical device or replicate a spell. The magical effects of extraordinary vis and any ritual required to activate them are not always obvious. The existence of the special powers of extraordinary vis may be uncovered through the spell Sense the Nature of Vis. When the spell is cast, rather than only seeing the appropriate aura to identify the vis, the magus sees something else. The additional visual clues are always associated with the specific type of powers the extraordinary vis embodies. These visual clues might include flashes of light, sparks, or a smoky cloud. To fully investigate the extraordinary vis, the character must investigate lesser enchant''
''ment vis as he would a magical device with the same power level. Spell-like vis may also be investigated in the laboratory; the Laboratory Total to discover the vis’ power and triggering event is equal to half the spell level of the spell-like vis. Extraordinary vis naturally exists in the Magic realm. It is not the creation of a magus for himself or others. Therefore, extraordinary vis is just as likely to have inherent powers that are inconvenient or annoying to magi as it is to have beneficial powers. Because the extraordinary vis exists independently of the human world, it never has powers requiring a user to maintain concentration, and the magical effects''
''of extraordinary vis usually have a Range of Personal or Touch. Transferring extraordinary vis from its native form to another shape always destroys any special powers the vis possesses. Extraordinary vis often takes the form of an object containing multiple pawns of vis. A reasonable guideline is 1 pawn per 10 levels of the magical effect produced by the extraordinary vis.''

===Lesser Enchantment Vis===

''This form of extraordinary vis emulates a lesser enchantment, usually level 30 or lower. Unless otherwise noted, the use of the vis’ magical effect does not consume or diminish the vis in any way. At any point, a magus may employ the vis for all of its normal uses. The magical effect of the vis''
''is designed as a normal lesser enchantment; however, the vis and its effect need not follow the material and size limitations normally imposed on Hermetic devices. (See ArM5, page 97.) Transferring the extraordinary vis to another physical object destroys its special power. In general, the magical effects of the special vis lasts as long as the vis remains intact and is not used for Hermetic purposes, but the troupe may wish to put some upper limit on the number of uses or the life span of the vis. This is especially appropriate for vis that is “consumed” by the activation process. For example, a pawn of Imaginem vis in the shape of peppercorns that make any food they are crushed over taste delicious should not last forever.''
''Looking Glass of Intellego Vis InIm Level 14 Pen 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room This Intellego vis is in the form of a small piece of glass. If the glass is held against a wall, the character can see through as if the glass were a window into the room. The glass does not provide illumination or allow the character to see things obscured by any objects in the room. (Effect: Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room; Modifications +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Icicle of Perdo Vis PeIg Level 25 Pen +12, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This icicle of Perdo vis never melts. Anyone who touches it loses a Fatigue level. If multiple pawns of the vis are stored in the same area, they chill a room to the point of being uncomfortably cold. If a rook or more is stored in the same room, anyone who enters loses a Fatigue level for each Diameter in the room unless protected by heavy winter clothing. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Modifications +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger, +6 Penetration)''
''Dust Devil of Auram Vis CrAu Level 9 Pen 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This small whirlwind of Auram vis provides a constant breeze of fresh air that keeps the air breathable even in an airtight room. The Auram vis may only be transported with magic or in a hermetically sealed container.''
''Story Seeds for Lesser Enchantment Vis''

===Guilty Secrets===

''The covenant busybody learns of the properties of the extraordinary Looking Glass of Intellego vis and “borrows” it to watch the business of the other covenant members. The busybody witnesses someone commit a crime and is torn between exposing the wrongdoer (and so also exposing his own thievery) and letting the crime go unpunished. Should the busybody come forward and identify the criminal, but not his own misdeeds, his story rings untrue; he fails the test of the Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, and becomes a suspect in the crime.''

===a Frozen Find===

''A local noble has discovered the source of the extraordinary Icicle of Perdo vis and has several pawns in his cellar, which keeps one small room at freezing temperatures. He enjoys showing off to his visitors by serving them chilled drinks on the hottest days of the summer. Do the magi attempt to barter for the vis, which the noble does not part with cheaply, or do they just take the vis?''

===Ill-conceived Illumination===

''An unscrupulous local priest has discovered the extraordinary Ball of Light Ignem vis and is using it to stage “miracles” to improve the sales of his fake artifacts. A friend of the covenant learns of the priest’s activities and asks the characters to investigate.''

===Spring Breezes===

''The first spring breeze in a magical valley produces several pawns of extraor''
''dinary Dust Devil of Auram vis. Should someone harvest all of the vis, spring does not come to the valley. Plants do not bloom, animals do not give birth, and summer does not come until at least 1 pawn of the vis is returned to the valley.''

===Un-natural Instincts===

''A highwayman discovers a source of extraordinary Mistletoe Sprig of Herbam vis and its powers. He uses it to outfit his band of brigands. They use their powers to control a nearby forest and evade capture. The brigands prevent the characters from receiving their normal visitors and harass those who dare to venture into the thieves’ forest.''

===Laughter and Joy===

''In a nearby village, where the Old Ways are still respected, local couples are married in a very special grove. The first joyful laugh of the bride and groom after the marriage vows are completed contains extraordinary Laughter of Mentem vis. How do outsiders with dubious social skills get an invitation each year? When present, how do they ensure that the couple laughs genuinely when those with the Gift are present?''

===The Warped Wizard===

''A magus with a high Parma Magica discovers several pawns of extraordinary Brimstone of Vim vis and trades it to a junior magus with a weaker Parma Magica. The magus falls into Wizard’s Twilight. When he returns, he brings charges against the senior magus at the next Tribunal.''
''(Effect: Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 unnatural; Modifications +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Mistletoe Sprig of Herbam Vis InHe Level 14 Pen 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group The mistletoe grows on the oldest tree in the forest. If harvested properly it contains Herbam vis. Anyone carrying the sprig of mistletoe gains an intuitive understanding of the forest in which the mistletoe grew. This grants a +3 to all nature-related rolls when the character is in the forest. (Effect: Base 1, + 1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group; Modifications +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Ball of Light Ignem Vis CrIg Level 14 Pen 0, constant effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Ind This pawn of Ignem vis is in the form of a ball of light. It glows brightly and provides illumination equivalent to a cloudy day for an area about ten paces across centered on the vis. The area around the vis is illuminated unless the vis is enclosed in an opaque container. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Sun; Modifications +1 2 uses per day, +3 environmental trigger)''
''Laughter of Mentem Vis ReMe Level 30 Pen 0, unlimited R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind If this vis is captured, anyone who hears its laughter is filled with overwhelming joy. The listener forgets all earthly concerns and is overcome with happiness. Appropriate Personality Trait rolls are modified by +5 and the listener suffers –2 on any rolls that require thought or concentration. The laughter is very faint and is only discernible when the physical object containing the vis is held. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 complex effect; Modifications +10 Unlimited)''
''Brimstone of Vim Vis CrVm Level 25 Pen +10, constant effect R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind This Vim vis is in the shape of a piece of brimstone that exudes a strong smell of sulfur. Anyone who comes into contact with the vis receives a burst of magic that results in the target gaining one Warping Point. (Effect: Base 5, + 1 Touch; Modifications +10 Unlimited, +5 Penetration)''

===Spell-like Vis===

''Some extraordinary vis produces a magical effect that mimics a high-level spell, usually of level 60 or lower. Unlike lesser enchantment vis, spell-like vis cannot produce a continuous magical effect and is completely consumed at the end of the effect. The activation of the vis may require that it be consumed by the recipient of the effect, or it may wither and degrade in some other obvious way at the expiration of the magic. In any case, the operation of the magical effect completely depletes the vis. The magical effect generally requires some specific triggering event or special circumstances to initiate the spell-like effect.''
''Seed of Creo Vis CrHe Level 40 R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This Creo vis takes the form of a seed from a fruit tree. When planted the seed grows instantly into a mature non-magical tree laden with the appropriate fruit. The seed need not be planted deep in the earth; it grows to maturity if covered by just a handful of dirt. But the tree survives only if planted in an appropriate location and climate. (Base 40)''
''Ash Branch of Muto Vis MuCo Combined Level 35 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This Muto vis is contained in a branch from an ash tree. The ash tree is known as the Tree of Odin and some believe that it grants success in battle. If the bearer of this Muto vis makes an Attack roll in battle, he gains the Virtues Reserves of Strength and Toughness for Sun Duration. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun (5) and Gift of Bear’s Fortitude, +1 Touch (30))''
''Rosemary Sprig of Rego Vis ReHe Level 55 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Str, Ritual This Rego vis takes the form of a sprig of rosemary. If the vis is hung above the main entrance of a home, it protects all within the dwelling from faerie creatures of the wood with Might 15 or less. Hanging the rosemary above a door completely depletes the vis. The effect has a Penetration total of 15. (Base effect 15, +2 Moon, +3 Structure)''
''Egg of Animal Vis CrAn Level 30 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual This Animal vis takes the form of a leathery snake egg. If the egg is warmed to the temperature equivalent to a warm spring day''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seeds for Spell-like Vis''

===Enigmatic Apples===

''A very old apple tree sits in the heart of an ancient forest. The first apple that naturally falls from the tree each autumn contains spell-like Seed of Creo vis. An apple taken from the tree contains no vis. If the characters arrive too late in the fall, the ground will be covered with apples from the magical tree. The apples are delicious and local animals may eat them before the characters arrive.''

===The Bully and the Branch===

''A headstrong apprentice is tasked with collecting spell-like Ash Branch of Muto vis, but the master does not explain the special powers of the vis and only instructs the apprentice to avoid combat at all costs. The apprentice does not and is asked to explain why the vis is depleted when he returns to the covenant.''

===Changeling===

''A Faerie Lady sends her minions out each Vernal Equinox to collect an infant child and replace it with a changeling. The villagers are aware of this custom and use spell-like Rosemary Sprig of Rego vis to protect their children. The characters cannot harvest the vis without dealing with the villagers. Should the Faerie Lady discover that the characters are thwarting her attempt to collect an infant child, she is very displeased with them.''

===Venomous Vis===

''An Animal magus collects several pawns of spell-like Egg of Animal vis, but never investigates their special properties. On a particularly warm day, the magus’s lab becomes filled with the venomous snakes. If any of the snakes escape, the covenant may be overrun by them the following spring.''

|}
''for one hour, fully-grown poisonous snakes emerge from the egg. A simple die + 14 determines the number of snakes that emerge. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 Size)''
''Drop of Spring Water of Aquam Vis CrAq Level 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This Aquam vis takes the form of a drop of water from a magical spring. If the vis ever comes into contact with the bare earth, a fast-flowing spring forms on the spot. The spring does not form if it touches the floor of a structure, but a spring is created upon any patch of ground, even if it is solid rock. (Base 5, +1 Touch)''
''Yarrow of Corpus Vis CrCo Level 40 R: Touch, D: Mom T: Ind, Ritual This Corpus vis takes the form of yarrow, which is also known as soldier’s wort. When the leaves of the plant are crushed and applied to a character’s wounds, they heal completely. The plant only heals physical injuries and has no effect on Wound levels''
''caused by disease or poison, nor does it restore missing limbs. (Base 35, +1 Touch)''
''Crystal of Imaginem Vis PeIm Level 20 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind This Imaginem vis is in the form of a rock crystal. If a character holds the crystal to his eye in the light of the sun, the character becomes invisible as per Veil of Invisibility. The character remains invisible until the magic expires. (As per Veil of Invisibility, ArM5, page 146)''
''Silver Coin of Terram Vis MuCo(Te) Level 45 R: Per, D: Moon, T: Ind This Terram vis takes the shape of a silver coin in the possession of a minor faerie. If a character takes the coin without the permission of the faerie, the next time the character stands under the noonday sun he turns into stone for Moon Duration. The effects of being a statute are detailed in the spell description for The Silent Vigil. (See ArM5, page''
''132). The character may not choose to end the effect before it expires. (Base 25, +3 Moon, +1 for special effect)''
''Dedicated Vis''
''Dedicated vis is a form of vis that may be used in Hermetic magic to greater effect than normal vis. Dedicated vis is rare and highly sought by magi. Dedicated vis provides an enhancement in each of the three categories below: spell use, study, and enchantment creation. Each pawn of dedicated vis has a specific Technique and Form combination; the enhanced effects of the vis only apply when the vis is used for that specific combination. When a magus casts Sense the Nature of Vis on dedicated vis, the colors he sees are a mottled combination of the appropriate Technique and Form of the dedicated vis. Although in most ways dedicated vis is treated identically to 2 pawns of vis — one Technique and one Form — the vis may not be disaggregated into separate pawns of vis. Likewise, transferring dedicated vis from its native form to another shape eliminates the special powers of the vis.''

===Spell Use===

''When dedicated vis is used to power a spell with the proper combination of Arts, the vis is treated as if it were twice as effective. In other words, a magus using dedicated vis enjoys a vis boost of +4 per pawn used. Dedicated vis may also be used to aid a spell that utilizes only one of the Technique and Form combination, but the dedicated vis does not provide any benefit in addition to that provided by normal vis. Likewise, when dedicated vis is used in an application that shares the same Technique and Form combination, whether it be casting a Ritual spell or creating a magic item, the vis is twice as effective. A single pawn of dedicated vis counts as 2 pawns of vis when casting a Ritual or creating a magic item that uses the appropriate combination of Arts. In any situation where the magus must make a botch roll, the dedicated vis also counts double.''

===Study===

''A magus who studies dedicated vis may gain experience in each of the appropriate''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seeds for Spell-like Vis (con’t)''

===The Deadly Drought===

''Drought strikes the region, crops are dying and rivers are reduced to a trickle. If the covenant assists one village by using their spell-like Drop of Spring Water of Aquam vis, other villages beseech the covenant for aid too. Do the characters turn the villagers away to face likely starvation and death, or do they expend their scarce resources to assist them with little prospect for any repayment from the essentially powerless peasants?''

===The Power of Healing===

''An advisor to a local lord has discovered the source of spell-like Yarrow of Corpus vis and has used it to convince his lord that he possesses great healing powers. If the characters harvest the vis, the advisor tracks them to their covenant and informs his lord of the theft.''

===The Unquiet Dead===

''A peasant finds spell-like Crystal of Imaginem vis and inadvertently turns him''
''self invisible. He returns home and the village believes he has died and is haunting them. When he becomes visible again, the frightened villagers drive him from their homes. The peasant believes he has become the walking dead and travels to the covenant to serve his “dark masters,” asking that he be laid to rest when his service is completed.''

===The Immobile Redcap===

''A greedy merchant attempts to cheat a minor faerie. The faerie leaves several coins out, including one of spell-like Silver Coin of Terram vis, and tells the merchant to take the one he’s owed. But instead of taking the single coin himself, the merchant sends the covenant’s Redcap to collect all of the coins as payment of his debt to the magi. The characters are expecting an important visit from the now-immobile Redcap and are forced to locate and free her. Should they track the coin to the faerie, he assists the characters in removing the curse, but only on the condition that they punish the merchant.''

|}
''Arts for the dedicated vis. Each pawn of dedicated vis is treated as 2 pawns for determining the minimum number needed for the magus’s Art total. To determine the Source Quality for the vis, the player first makes a stress die roll and adds the applicable aura bonus, and then the total is divided by 2; this number is the Source Quality for the Technique and Form of the dedicated vis. If the stress die double botches, the magus enters Wizard’s Twilight. The number of botch dice equals double the number of pawns of dedicated vis studied. A magus may study from dedicated and normal vis simultaneously. The magus must possess at least 1 pawn of dedicated vis for each pawn of normal vis used. The Source Quality is determined as normal and the total is divided by 2. In effect, the magus may study two Arts at once, but does so with only half the effectiveness of studying each Art separately.''

===Enchantment Creation===

''Dedicated vis also grants improved shape or material bonuses in the creation of magical devices. If the physical form of the dedicated vis is enchanted as a magical device, it gives double the normal shape and material bonus. Although the unmodified shape and material bonus may not exceed the magus’ Magic Theory score, the modified bonus may. For example, 2 pawns of Corpus vis in the form of a human bone would grant double the shape and material bonus — +6 to destroy the human mind or +8 to destroy the human body — to any enchantment. In addition, any vis contained in the physical object is considered already opened for enchantment purposes. In other words, a magus may reduce the amount of vis required to open the item for enchantment or add those pawns to the maximum capacity of the object. A small, bone object would normally require 6 pawns of vis to open it for enchantment. (See ArM5, page 97.) A magus with a small bone of dedicated vis containing 2 pawns of Corpus vis could choose to open the item with 4 pawns of additional vis for a capacity of 6 pawns, or the magus could select to use 6 pawns of additional vis to open the item and give it a capacity of 8 pawns of vis. (See The Mysteries Revised Edition, Ready-Opened Devices, page 41.) As noted above, transferring dedicated vis to a different object destroys all special effects the vis possesses.''
''Vis Storage''
''At the storyguide’s option, any time a large amount of vis of a single Art is stored in close proximity, spontaneous Art-appropriate spells may occur. These effects make storing or transporting large quantities of vis difficult. The minimum amount of vis necessary to create the spontaneous spells is dependent on the saga type. In a low-vis saga, a rook or two (10 to 20 pawns) of vis may be sufficient; in a high-vis saga, at least a queen (100 pawns) of vis may be required for the effects to occur. Because vis is the physical manifestation of magic, large quantities of it Warp the magical fabric nearby. This effect results in Art-appropriate spells spontaneously occurring near the vis, within what would be Voice range for a magus. The magnitude of the spell is determined by the amount of vis stored in the area. If the minimum amount of vis needed to create the spontaneous effects is stored, only first-magnitude spells occur. For every multiple beyond the minimum, an additional magnitude is added to the level of spells that may spontaneously occur. Thus, in a high-vis saga if the covenant stores 4 queens of Perdo vis in an area, random Perdo''
''spells of level 20 or lower would occur spontaneously near the vis. When a large amount of vis is stored in an area, the storyguide should determine the Form or Technique of the spontaneous spell, or roll randomly among the Forms or Techniques, then select an effect using the spell guidelines detailed in Ars Magica Fifth Edition. If this optional rule increases the amount of bookkeeping required for the covenant to an unacceptable level, the storyguide is free to ignore it. An alternate solution is to have the storyguide simply pick an interesting, but essentially harmless or useless, effect that occurs whenever a large quantity of Artspecific vis is stored in the same area. The following list provides some possibilities:''
''Animal Vis: Small animals, insects, and vermin spontaneously appear; animals gain body parts of other animals, for example rats grow wings; all vermin in the area die immediately. Aquam Vis: The area is always damp and everything is covered in dew; all impurities are removed from water in the area, making it exceptionally pure and delicious. Auram Vis: The area is shrouded in fog, and occasional showers fall in the room; ran''
''dom winds blow through the area, varying from gentle breezes to gusty winds. Corpus Vis: Bruises and small scrapes or cuts instantly heal, and minor scars disappear; body hair grows at exceptional speed, several inches a day. Herbam Vis: Long-dead wood in furniture and utensils sprouts branches and leaves; flowers and weeds grow through the cracks in the floor or wherever soil is present. Ignem Vis: A hazy smoke fills the room; easily combustible objects may burst into flames; the area is heated as warm as a hot summer day. Imaginem Vis: Everything tastes better and smells sweeter in the area; colors are brighter, sounds are more vivid, a mere whisper can be heard from the opposite side of the room. Mentem Vis: Emotions run high in the area — sad people are thrown into deep depression and happy people become giddy with joy; people’s subconscious thoughts are heard by everyone in the area, as if spoken aloud. Terram Vis: Cracked pottery reforms; rusted blades become sharp again. Vim Vis: Objects in the area are treated as if they had Shell of False Determination cast upon them, with the level of the effect being determined by the amount of vis nearby, and creatures suffer from The Phantom Gift if they stay too long. Creo Vis: Worn or old items in the area become like new again; food lasts longer and rotten food becomes edible again. Intellego Vis: All Perception rolls are improved by +3 in the area. Muto Vis: Items nearby change color continuously; sounds change tenor and pitch unpredictably. Perdo Vis: Objects near the vis age or deteriorate rapidly — wood rots, food spoils, and metal rusts. Rego Vis: A character’s ability to resist Personality Traits is increased by +1.''

===Covenant Creation Costs===

''The vis described above is more valuable than the typical forms of vis characters encounter. A vis source that provides extraordinary or dedicated vis should rarely produce more than a few such pawns per year. In transactions involving special vis, the vis is proportionally more valuable than normal vis. To determine the trade value of extraordinary or dedicated vis, divide its cost in Build Points by 5. If an extraordinary''
''pawn of vis would require 20 build points, it is worth four times as much as a normal pawn of vis, which only requires 5 build Points.''

===Lesser Enchantment Vis Source Cost: 5 Build Points + 0-2 Build Points Per Magnitude of the Magical Effect of the Vis Per Pawn of Vis Per Year===


===Spell-like Vis Source Cost: 5 Build Points + 1-3 Build Points Per Magnitude of the Magical Effect of the Vis Per Pawn of Vis Per Year===


===Dedicated Vis Source Cost: 7.5 Build Points Per Pawn of Vis Per Year===


===Vis Stocks Cost: Vis Source Cost in Build Points Divided By 5 Per 5 Pawns of Vis===

''The build points for extraordinary vis are variable depending on the special powers of the vis. Vis that mimics Ritual spells is more valuable than vis that simply mimics a normal spell, and vis that provides merely cosmetic or annoying effects should cost little or no more than normal vis.''

===Insubstantial Vis===

''Transferring special, dedicated, or unique vis from its native form to another shape destroys the special powers contained in the vis. Because of this, magi are often forced to carry insubstantial forms of vis in special containers. Auram vis could come in the form of a breeze, a scent, or fog — all of which can be held in a glass vial with cork or wax seal. The magus must break the vial or seal to use the vis. Similarly, vis can often be contained in sound or light. This vis is more difficult to transport. A magus needs to create a magical device to transport and store this insubstantial vis.''
''Container for Ephemeral Vis ReVi Level 24 Pen 0, 12/day R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind This device is an enchanted seashell. The holder may use it to capture or release insubstantial vis in auditory form 12 times per day. If the seashell contains insubstantial vis and is held to the ear, the sound of the vis may be heard. The same effect can also be enchanted into a crystal to retain luminescent vis. The more vis the device holds, the brighter it glows or louder it sounds. (Effect: Base 10, +2 Voice; Modifications +4 12 uses per day)''
''Herbs and Objects of Virtue''
''Many inanimate objects resonate with particular aspects of the Magic realm; this is the origin of the Shape and Material Bonuses employed by magi to enhance their enchantments. Some objects have become infused so greatly with the power of Magic that they transcend these bonuses, and can be coaxed into providing tangible powers by a skilled hedge magician. Like Beasts of Virtue, it is hard to predict what forces result in a Thing of Virtue (that is, either a Herb or an Object of Virtue). More often than not, such things are found within a Magic aura, but not all plants within an aura are Herbs of Virtue. Those that are can be identified because they possess perfect symmetry, with no blemishes and the most vibrant of hues. Similarly, all Gemstones of Virtue are flawless, but not all flawless gemstones possess that perfect quality that makes one Virtuous. Perhaps the only reliable source of Objects of Virtue is the corpses of Beasts of Virtue; the vis in some of these creatures is concentrated in a particular body part, and manifests a particular power after suitable treatment from a hedge wizard. For example, the tongue of a Snake of Virtue can confer a magical ability to lie convincingly, and the mane of a Lion of Virtue makes one as brave as its original owner.''

===Enriching a Thing of Virtue===

''An Herb or Object of Virtue typically contains 1 or 2 pawns of vis. Without Enrichment, this, and any Shape and Material Bonus, is the only feature of such things. Anyone with the Magic Lore Ability can Enrich a Thing of Virtue, activating its hidden powers; the knowledge of what powers a Thing of Virtue might possess is covered by this Ability. To determine what powers a Thing of Virtue might have, make an Intelligence + Magic Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If successful, the character knows the magical powers that can be granted by the Thing of Virtue, and the method by which to Enrich it. Some Things of Virtue may have more than one possible Virtue; when Enriching such items, the magician must decide which power he wishes to activate. Once made, this decision cannot be undone. Enrichment does not require a laboratory,''
''but a magical procedure is necessary; see the descriptions below for example Enrichments. Not all vis can be Enriched, only that which derives from an Animal, Herb, or Object of Virtue. Enrichment enchants the raw vis in the thing, and it cannot be henceforth used as vis or extracted from the object. This requires a season of uninterrupted magical operation and a sufficiently high Enrichment Total:''

===Enrichment Total: Intelligence + Magic Lore + Aura===


===Enrichment Level: 9===

''Anyone who carries a Thing of Virtue on his person acquires a Virtue from its magic, providing the character has no Magic Resistance. Things of Virtue can be carried across magical wards, but their powers are suppressed by an Aegis of the Hearth of any level. The item must remain intact and undamaged to confer its Virtue. Herbs of Virtue typically lose their potency over time, persisting just one year for every pawn of vis in the original object, but they often confer a Major Virtue. Other Things of Virtue are usually more durable, and barring accidents do not fade in power with time, but they usually only confer a Minor Virtue. The Virtues conferred cannot affect the background of the character, story elements, or the gain of experience points (such as an Affinity), but could conceivably confer any other Virtue, including the new Virtues from Chapter 3: Magic Characters. A Supernatural Ability acquired in this way has a score of 3 and cannot be increased with experience points. When using a Enriched Thing of Virtue, it is as if the wearer has the Virtue; so, for example, Greater and Lesser Powers can be designed with Range Personal. Any Supernatural Ability or power''
''granted by an Enriched Thing of Virtue can have a non-zero Penetration, but this affects the Ability or power used, not the item’s ability to grant the power to its wearer. The Penetration Total is calculated in the usual way, as if the character had the Virtue or power in question (see ArM5, page 184 for the Penetration Total of Supernatural Abilities; and Chapter 4: Magic Characters, New and Modified Virtues for the Penetration Total of the Greater and Lesser Power Virtues). There are downsides to Enriched Things of Virtue. Firstly, a Thing of Virtue that confers a Major Virtue also confers a Minor Flaw. Minor Virtues do not always incur a Flaw, but some do. The Hermetic Virtues of Restriction and Necessary Condition may be taken as Minor Flaws, affecting only the power granted by the Thing of Virtue. Thus a Herb that confers a Greater Immunity to Disease might also confer a Restriction that the immunity will not work if the wearer cuts or combs his hair. Secondly, an Enriched Thing of Virtue''
''confers Warping points as a Constant Effect of Low Power (ArM5, page 168).''
''Herbs of Virtue''
''Here follow some example Herbs of Virtue, and the benefits they offer once Enriched.''

===Centaury===

''Centaury of Virtue is used by witches to acquire the power of flight as a Greater Power. The leaves must be dried by moonlight, then steeped in strong liquor for a season. This must then be consumed in quantity until the imbiber can barely stand (intoxication is a Necessary Condition of this power), at which point the reveler and up to 12 others may take flight. All fliers must remain in close proximity, and must travel in the same direction. Everyone partaking in the herb loses one Fatigue level. Left unenriched, Centaury of Virtue is worth 2 pawns of Rego vis. ReCo 30 (base 15, +1 Conc, +2 Group): Greater Power (30 levels, –2 Might (fatigue) cost)''

===Cinquefoil===

''This pretty yellow flower with five petals as a Cinquefoil of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Mentem vis. It can be successfully Enriched by pressing it between two fine sheets of mica, then burying it in a tin box for a season. Then, whoever places it beneath his tongue will gain an abundance of eloquence, and the Inspirational Virtue.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Hedge Magicians and Enriched Things of Virtue''
''The mechanics of Enriching a Thing of Virtue allow an unGifted character to acquire minor magical powers. Such characters might actively seek out specific Herbs or Objects to perform their magic. They will never pose a threat to a Hermetic magus, however, and are largely ignored by the Order of Hermes. The archetypal village wise woman might gather Periwinkle of Virtue (which grants the Venus’s Blessing virtue) as a love charm, or employ Vervain of Virtue (Enduring Constitution)''
''and Heart’s Ease of Virtue (granting Lesser Purifying Touch: Childbirth Fever) to assist childbirth. Likewise, a natural magician could Enrich a Topaz of Virtue to grant the Inspirational Virtue to his lord, or a Sapphire of Virtue (giving Intuition) to give a semblance of prediction to his astrological calculations. The Warping points incurred by these effects will gradually disfigure the wise woman or drive the natural magician mad with Flaws.''
''Hermetic Magi and Enriched Things of Virtue''
''A magus cannot usually benefit from an Enriched Thing of Virtue: even without his Parma Magica, his Forms give him a Magic Resistance of at least zero. Further, few magi have sufficient knowledge of non-Hermetic magic (that is, the Magic Lore Ability) to be able to effect an Enrichment. Nevertheless, some magi have found a use for Enriched Things of Virtue. A magus can include the item in an enchanted item in the usual manner; thus, an Enriched Topaz of Virtue (see below) included in an invested item grants the wielder the Puissant Leadership Virtue as well as any Hermetic enchantments, as''
''long as the wielder has no Magic Resistance. Enriching a Thing of Virtue does not affect its Shape and Material bonuses, but the inherent vis of the Thing of Virtue cannot contribute to the enchantment since it was used in the Enrichment process. An invested item made from an Enriched Thing of Virtue can only be made into a talisman if the magus Enriched the item himself. As a talisman, the Thing of Virtue ignores its owner’s Magic Resistance, and is the only way that a magus can acquire the granted Virtue. A Thing of Virtue made into a talisman does not Warp its creator.''

|}

===Fennel===

''The Fennel of Virtue has a fleshy bulb and tall straight flower spikes bearing fragrant seeds. It contains 2 pawns of Vim vis. To be Enriched, a fennel must be plucked on a day sacred to St. Michael (or another mighty spirit of warlike mien), and wrapped in lamb’s wool and snakeskin then kept in a scabbard for a season. The stalk of the fennel will become hard as wood, and when wielded as a wand it drives away evil spirits (a Greater Power). Any creature with an Infernal Might of 25 or less loses 5 points of Infernal Might, but each attack costs the wielder one Fatigue level. The owner must remain Continent (as per the Flaw) else its power will fade. PeVi (base 5, +1 Touch): Greater Power (10 levels, +35 Penetration, –1 Might (fatigue) cost)''

===Mistletoe===

''The parasitic Mistletoe of Virtue grants the power of prophecy. It must be cut from an apple tree without a single leaf touch''
''ing the ground. The cut end is then bound against the flesh over the left breast and left covered for a season. The herb will reveal that it has successfully Enriched by taking root in the flesh of the wearer. The host of the plant gains the Supernatural Ability Divination & Augury (see The Mysteries, Revised Edition, pages 58–62). The method of divination granted is unique to the Mistletoe of Virtue; the diviner consumes the berries and receives mystical visions, granting ceremonial bonuses of Dreams +2, Herbam +5, and Intentions +1. The herb feeds directly from his heart’s blood, granting a Fragile Constitution. After two years the plant will wither and die. Left unenriched, Mistletoe of Virtue is worth 2 pawns of Intellego vis.''

===Pennyroyal===

''The pennyroyal is a creeping plant similar to mint, with clusters of tiny purple flowers. The Pennyroyal of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Corpus vis. Known as Heal-All, the star that is ruling when this sovereign herb is Enriched determines which ailment it cures: Mars protects against flux; Venus against pox; Mercury against kidney stones; Jupiter against fever; and Saturn against falling sickness. The herb must be painted painstakingly with the clearest of resins from a lightning-struck pine; each week for a season a new layer of lacquer is added. A simple brush of the herb over the heart or brow will confer this Greater Purifying Touch. Let the healer be warned, however, for devils will seek to undo the work he has wrought with this herb (actually a Delusion).''

===Periwinkle===

''The intense blue of the Periwinkle of Virtue grants Venus’s Blessing. The hopeful in love must find enough perfect flowers among those that have been trampled by rutting deer to form a garland, which is strung around the neck of the dominant stag. After ninety days, the sole remaining flower of this garland has been Enriched. The recovered garland also grants the impetuousness of youthful love that shows no inhibition in pursuing its object of affection (that is, the Reckless Flaw). Left unenriched, Periwinkle of Virtue is worth 1 pawn of Mentem vis.''
''Objects of Virtue''
''The Virtues for many Objects of Virtue can be derived using Shape and Material Bonuses for inspiration, concentrating on materials rather than shapes. Any item that naturally contains vis and that gives a Shape and Material bonus to a specific Art can be Enriched to confer Puissant Art, but Objects of Virtue are rarely of use to magi because of their zero Penetration and the Warping they cause.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Shape and Material Bonuses for Herbs of Virtue''
''Centaury: +3 Flight Cinquefoil: +3 Leadership, +1 Rego Mentem Fennel: +5 repel ghosts, +5 repel evil spirits,	+2 dreams''
''Mistletoe: +7 divination Pennyroyal: +3 healing Periwinkle: +3 love, +1 loyalty or affection''

|}

===Amethyst===

''An Amethyst of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Mentem vis and, if appropriately Enriched, confers the Minor Supernatural Virtue Lesser Immunity to drunkenness (ArM5, page 44). To gain this benefit, the stone must be in contact with the drinker’s skin, so it is usual to set it into an item of jewelry. The Enrichment ritual involves preparation of a beverage with no intoxicating effects from the strongest fermented drink available. Once the wizard is satisfied that the fluid is safe, probably by drinking quite a lot of it herself, the stone should be steeped in it for a month. The whole process of preparing the drink, testing it, and steeping the gem should take about a season.''

===Bloodstone===

''A suitably Enriched Bloodstone of Virtue gives the bearer the Minor General Virtue Rapid Convalescence (ArM5, page 48) as long as he is in contact with it and remains in bed, avoiding any mental or physical exertion. Enrichment requires that the stone be kept for at least a month in mud collected from a site known to have healing powers, followed by repeated washing in water gathered from a spring of proven curative power. Before Enrichment, the stone contains 1 pawn of Creo vis. The whole business of locating a source of suitable mud, collecting the water, and carrying out the processes should take about a season.''

===Bufonites===

''A Toad Stone of Bufonite of Virtue is a dull gray stone containing 2 pawns of Intellego vis that, when Enriched, has a Lesser Power to detect poison. It turns pink or dull red when in contact with poison. Enrichment requires that the stone be removed from the head of a Toad of Virtue while it is still alive. The stone must then be placed on red cloth until it is set into a suitably fine item of personal jewelry or into a drinking vessel or platter. The whole process should take about a season. InAq 15 (base 3, +2 Sun, +1 Touch (Target), +1 continuous effect): Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 Might (fatigue) cost)''

===Opal===

''An Opal of Virtue contains 2 pawns of Terram vis. If suitably Enriched, it provides the Minor Heroic Virtue Sure Traveler (see Houses of''
''Hermes, True Lineages, page 107) but also produces a minor Personality Flaw. The Flaw should be chosen by the storyguide, in consultation with the player if appropriate, and might well be something that will irritate fellow travelers. Enrichment involves taking the item to the highest point in the vicinity, where the wizard has a clear view in all directions, for a season.''

===Sapphire===

''A Sapphire of Virtue, which contains 1 pawn of Intellego vis, can be Enriched to confer the Minor General Virtue Intuition (ArM5, page 44). It should be exposed to the light of a full moon over the course of a season, and kept wrapped in a piece of violet-colored fabric at all other times to effect and maintain the Enrichment. The user must gaze into the gem to gain the intuition, so it is usually set into a ring for convenience.''

===Clam Shell===

''The Clam Shell of Virtue, when Enriched, confers the Minor General Virtue Tough (ArM5, page 49). To benefit, the owner must wear or carry the shell. The Enrichment process could require that the shell be put in the torrent of a powerful waterfall for a season. A shell that survives the battering is proven Enriched. Before Enrichment, a Clam Shell of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Terram vis.''

===Emerald===

''If one places an Emerald of Virtue in the nest of a snake, and returns three months later to find the gem still there and so too the snake, it will have been Enriched. It then gives the bearer the Minor Supernatural Virtue Animal Ken (ArM5, page 40), with the restriction that it applies to serpents only. Before Enrichment, the gem contains 2 pawns of Animal vis.''

===Jet===

''An Enriched piece of Jet of Virtue provides the Minor General Virtue Puissant Stealth (ArM5, page 48). The Enrichment process involves leaving it concealed for a season in a place where people gather frequently, changing the hiding place once a month. The Virtue is lost if anyone other than the owner sees the jet. Before Enrichment, Jet of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Perdo vis.''

===Topaz===

''A Topaz of Virtue gives the Minor General Virtue Puissant Leadership (ArM5, page 48) after Enrichment. The procedure for Enrichment involves obtaining fur, feathers, or teeth from an animal known to be the leader of a pack or flock, then binding this to the stone using a gold-colored wire or thread and keeping the bundle in a high place for a season. Before Enrichment, the gem of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Mentem vis.''
''Formed Stones''
''Some call these shaped stones lusus naturae — sports of nature — and say that they are formed in the soil by the creative force of vis plastica. Others say that shaped stones result from certain astral conjunctions, which fertilize the soil and rocks with vis formativa. Then there are those who claim they arise through the individualization of objects by a condensation of vapors liberated by fermentation in deeper-lying rocks. A few claim that they are reflections of ancient failures in creation.''

===Clach Crubain===

''There is a formed stone that is bent over, like a body crippled with the pains of arthritis, called Clach Crubain of Virtue. It contains 1 pawn of Perdo vis. When suitably Enriched, carrying the stone close to one’s person confers the Minor Supernatural Virtue Lesser Immunity (arthritis) (ArM5, page 44). The Enrichment process requires one to obtain a measure of pure oil, probably by crushing freshly picked, unblemished olives or by pressing oil-rich nuts. Alternatively, oil from an animal source may be used if the origins are special enough. The oil should be rubbed all over the stone and allowed to dry off in sunlight strong enough to warm the stone. The process must be repeated three times and should take about a season to complete.''

===Ovum Anguinum===

''A Serpent’s Egg or Ovum Anguinum of Virtue is a pale, almost spherical formed stone with a regular pattern of small bumps on the surface. It can confer protection from poison and illness through the Minor General Virtue Improved Characteristics (Stamina +2) (ArM5, page 43). A variation''
''in the Enrichment process can, alternatively, confer Improved Communication (+2) that helps the bearer to success in legal disputes and the like. Another variant bestows the Minor General Virtue Tough, giving +3 to Soak (ArM5, page 49). Before Enrichment, the stone contains 2 pawns of Creo vis. The Enrichment process requires one to go at midsummer to a place where snakes gather and entwine about each other. As the snakes writhe, a ball of froth forms and rises up into the air. If one can leap up and catch this in a cloth before it falls to the ground, then carry it over a river that the snakes cannot swim, and keep the stone in the froth for a month, the process will be complete. Finding the right place to go and carrying out the process should take about a season.''

===Thunderbolt===

''Certain pointed stones called Thunderbolts of Virtue fall from the sky like darts during the most ferocious thunderstorms. Such a stone contains 1 pawn of Auram vis. A suitably Enriched one gives the person who carries it a Ward against Demons of the Air as a Greater Power, keeping out all such creatures with a Might of 10 or less. The stone must be held in the hand to work (a Necessary Condition). The Enrichment process involves fastening it to a branch high up in a tree that has been struck by lightning, and leaving it there through three storms. It must be left for no less than three months, and for longer if storms are infrequent. ReAu 20 (base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 continuous effect): Greater Power (20 levels, +20 Penetration, –2 Might (fatigue) cost)''

===Cornu Ammonis===

''A Horn of Ammon or Cornu Ammonis of Virtue is a coiled stone like a petrified worm, containing yellow crystals or grains that look like gold. It carries 2 pawns of Intellego vis. According to Pliny, it can bring''
''about prophetic visions in dreams. After appropriate Enrichment, it gives the Minor Supernatural Flaw Visions (ArM5, page 60) to anyone who sleeps with it under his head, perhaps under a pillow or some straw. The visions come as dreams. Enrichment requires the drinking of a concoction of hallucinogenic fungi or herbs. While under the influence, the drinker learns of the location of a hibernating animal (e.g. a dormouse). The stone must be left in the animal’s nest for the winter to activate its power.''

===Glossopetrae===

''A Stone Adder’s Tongue or Glossopetrae of Virtue contains 1 pawn of Aquam vis and can be Enriched to become an antidote to liquid poisons. The poisoned character loses a Fatigue level rather than taking a wound. To be used, it must be put in the suspect liquid and left to stand for at least two Diameters. Enrichment involves the capture of a poisonous snake, which is milked for its venom. The stone is soaked in that venom for a month, then washed every night for another month in fresh clean rainwater that has been collected in a special bowl as it fell. The stone should be kept in snakeskin. PeAq 20 (base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Part): Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 Might (fatigue) cost)''

===Fairy Loaves===

''These formed stones called Fairy Loaves of Virtue are shaped like fairly flat round buns, and contain 1 pawn of Muto vis each. An Enriched stone of this type, if kept in the place where milk is stored, demonstrates a Lesser Power and keeps milk fresh. Enrichment involves a visit to a Faerie aura or negotiations with a minor faerie, taking about a season to conclude. MuAq 15 (base 2, +2 Sun, +2 Room, +1 constant effect): Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 Might (fatigue) cost).''
''Awakened Trees''
''As discussed in Chapter 2: Auras, things inside a Magic aura are superior examples of their kind. All plants and trees are alive, and the plants and trees growing within Magic auras seem more alive than those in the mundane world. As noted in the spell description of Stir the Slumbering Tree (ArM5, page 137), most trees in Magic auras are awake — they’re aware of their surroundings and capable of limited movement. The stronger the aura, the more alert and active the trees become. In an aura of level 6 or higher, the trees are fully awake and can see and hear about as well as a human can. Awakened trees have no Might score and are not especially likely to contain vis. They possess Cunning rather than Intelligence. A mundane tree, transplanted into a sufficiently strong Magic aura, would eventually become Transformed. On the other hand, awakened trees become more lethargic whenever the Magic aura around them decreases. Different varieties of trees have different personalities. Oak trees are steadfast and dignified, while more flexible trees such as willow or birch are more excitable and flighty. Awakened trees can talk to one another by rustling their leaves, spreading news on the wind.''

===Animated Trees===

''Certain spells or magical effects can take a tree beyond its ordinary awakened state and make it as mobile as an animal (albeit a sluggish one). Hermetic spells such as Lord of the Trees or Calling the Council of the Trees can have this effect, as can the non-Hermetic powers of many nature spirits (most often through the Crafter of Herbam power; see Chapter 4: Magic Characters, Common Powers). A tree can also become animate when a spirit uses the Manifestation power (Chapter 8: Spirits, Common Powers of Spirits) to inhabit it. A tree animated by a spell or effect does not have a Might score, but one animated by Manifestation temporarily gains Might equal to the activation cost of the power.''
''Trees of Virtue''
''Trees of Virtue are usually awake, but they have no Might score. They are more likely to be attended by Airy Spirits (see Chapter 7: Spirits, Florae and Faunae) than are other trees.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Shape and Material Bonuses for Objects of Virtue''
''Clach Crubain: +2 arthritis Bufonites: +3 detect poison Ovum Anguinum: +2 versus infection and poison, +2 legal arguments, +2 resist injury''
''Thunderbolt: +3 lightning, +2 Auram, +4 protection from demons Cornu Ammonis: +3 affect visions, dreams Glossopetrae: +5 resist snake venom Fairy Loaves: +4 keep milk fresh''

|}
''The vis in a Tree of Virtue belongs to an Art associated with the tree’s inherent magical powers, in a quantity usually between 1 and 3 pawns. Like herbs, Trees of Virtue may be Enriched to make magical charms or devices that grant Virtues. Unlike herbs, only a small portion of the tree is necessary to make this charm: the portion where all of the tree’s inherent power resides. Enriching this item, or collecting the tree’s vis, depletes the tree’s magical powers. Sometimes a Tree of Virtue can replenish these lost properties over time, but otherwise it becomes permanently non-magical. (Storyguides should decide whether a given Tree of Virtue is renewable or not based on the needs of the saga.) Distinct from Trees of Virtue are trees that produce vis, but do not manifest their magical properties strongly enough to be eligible for Enrichment. Such trees may provide vis of the same Art as Trees of Virtue of the same species, or may simply yield Herbam vis. Vis-bearing trees usually (but do not always) replenish their vis after it has been harvested, making them a common vis source for covenants.''

===Blackthorn===

''The blackthorn tree flowers in late winter or early spring, even before its leaves bud. Under the new moon while the tree is in flower, the thorns of a Blackthorn of Virtue may be Enriched by a magician who knows the proper lore. The wizard must find the 13 longest, sharpest thorns. She anoints each of these with a drop of human blood while they are still on the tree (usually the she simply pricks her own or an assistant’s finger with each thorn) on several different nights, under different phases of the moon, while reciting the proper incantations. When finished, the thorns may be used to inflict curses. They grant a power similar to the Virtue, Hex (see Realms of Power: Infernal, page 92) but with two limitations. First, the user can only curse a victim to whom she has an Arcane Connection: she must fashion a wax figure of the target and pierce it with an Enriched thorn. Second, each of the 13 thorns can be used only once. (Together, these limitations constitute a Restriction). Note that the Hex power granted by Blackthorn of Virtue is aligned with the Magic Realm, not the Infernal. Alternatively, a Blackthorn of Virtue may simply be harvested for 2 pawns of Perdo vis.''

===Hazel===

''On a Hazel Tree of Virtue, one supple branch is forked with perfect symmetry. A magician can Enrich this branch into a wand that provides the Virtue Dowsing (see ArM5, page 41). The branch must be fashioned into a forked wand and then buried and dug up seven different times, each at a different place of mystical significance (such as at a crossroads, next to an ancient megalith, at a spring with healing powers, and so on). The wand must be left in each place for at least seven days. Before Enrichment, the symmetrical branch contains 1 pawn of Intellego vis.''

===Oak===

''Oak is associated with storms and lightning. Wood from the heart of an Oak of Virtue may be fashioned into an item that grants a Lesser Immunity to lightning, after it is properly Enriched. The Enrichment process involves seasoning the wood while exposing it to incense and the smoke of burning herbs over the course of a season. At least once during this process the wood must be brought under the open sky while lightning is flashing. The finished, Enriched item may be carved into any shape or size (limited only by the size of the original tree). If it is a''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Character Guide: An Animated Tree''
''Magic Might: None, or activation cost of Manifestation (Herbam) Characteristics: Cun –3, Per –2, Pre –3, Com –3, Str +8, Sta +5, Dex –1, Qik –5 Size: +5 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Clumsy Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: No Fatigue Personality Traits: Tree +3 Combat: Branch: Init +5, Attack +7, Defense +1, Damage +10 Soak: +15 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–10), –3 (11–20), –5 (21–30), Incapacitated (31-40), Dead (41+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (branch) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for this tree’s branch are Init +10, Atk''
''+4, Dfn +2, Dam +2. This makes its combat statistics work out exactly as listed in the spell Lord of the Trees (ArM5, page 139), when combined with its Brawl skill of 3. Vis: None''
''These statistics should be used for trees affected by spells such as Lord of the Trees or Calling the Council of the Trees (ArM5, page 139), or those animated by spirits. Under most circumstances, an animate tree has no Might score. An animate tree can move its limbs and roots, and can also uproot itself and shuffle about if the spell description says it can. For this purpose, treat Manifestation as equivalent to the spell, Freeing the Striding Tree (ArM5, page 139).''
''Story Seed: War for the Woods''
''As the covenant begins to harvest too much vis from a magical forest, the trees and forest spirits notice a slight weakening of the local aura and take exception to the magi’s activities. The trees begin to awaken on their own and hinder travelers in various ways: lowering their branches to block trails, placing their roots where passers-by will trip over them, and so forth. If the magi escalate the conflict by using axes or fire, the Florae or genius loci protecting the forest animate the trees in self-defense.''
''Option: Brawl Skill for Animated Trees''
''For simplicity, troupes can simply assign a default Brawl skill of 3 (specialized in “branch”) to all animate trees. A more complex alternative is to assign a different Brawl skill to each tree and re-calculate its combat statistics accordingly. Under this rule, a tree animated by a spell has a Brawl skill equal to the caster’s Finesse. A tree animated by a spirit using Manifestation has the same Brawl skill as the spirit, and uses the spirit’s Dexterity and mental Characteristics (but the tree’s Strength, Stamina, and Quickness).''

|}
''portable item, it grants the Lesser Immunity to its possessor. If it is built into a wooden ship or structure, then it grants Immunity to the whole edifice. Before Enrichment, the heartwood of an Oak of Virtue contains 2 pawns of Auram vis.''

===Rowan===

''From a Rowan of Virtue, a magician can make a protective amulet. The red berries of the rowan are marked with a five-pointed star; proper Enrichment of the amulet requires selecting only the berries that have perfect stars. The magician crushes a few of these berries along with certain herbs (basil and rue, among others) and pure rain water, and in this brew steeps two twigs from the same tree as the berries. Fresh berries (only those with perfect stars) and herbs must be added each day from one quarter-day (solstice or equinox) till the next. The two redstained twigs are then tied with red thread into an equal-armed cross. The finished amulet grants a Lesser Magic Power Virtue (see Chapter 4: Magical Characters, New Virtues). Its effect is identical to a Hermetic Rego Vim ward (see ArM5, page 161) of Level 10 and Penetration 10, with a Target: Individual rather than Circle, that wards its bearer against creatures of one supernatural Realm (Magic, Infernal, or Faerie, but not Divine — the Realm must be chosen by the magician when the amulet is made). The amulet loses its power after seven years.''
''Awakened Items''
''Magical devices can occasionally become magic things, perhaps because of a laboratory accident or exposure to the Magic Realm. Here is one example of an enchanted item that has been awakened by magic.''

===Amiculum, Magical Cloak===

''Magic Might: 5 (Vim) Characteristics: Int –2, Per +1, Pre +3, Com –3, Str –2, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: –1 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Magical Friend; True Friend Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Lesser''
''Character Guide: A Mandrake Root of Virtue''
''Magic Might: 5 Characteristics:: Cun +1, Per 0, Pre –3, Com 0, Str –10, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik +6 Size: –6 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Arcane Lore; Restricted Power, Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power, Improved Powers (x2) Personality Traits: Mandrake* +3, Spiteful +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +6, Attack N/A, Defense +9, Damage N/A Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: n/a Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Brawl 2 (dodging), Penetration 4 (scream) Powers: Deadly Scream, 0 points, Init +6, Corpus or Animal  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Sound  The mandrake root’s scream is deadly to all who hear it (deafness is an effective defense). It can only use this power at the moment it is pulled out of the soil.  PeCo(An) 50 (Base 30, +3 Sound, +1 Animal Requisite): Greater Power (50 levels), Improved Powers x2 (+1 Initiative, –5 Might cost) Vis: 5 Corpus; this is spell-like vis that cures a Medium or lesser wound due to poison or disease (but not injury). Appearance: The above-ground part of a mandrake plant looks like a cluster of oblong, tapered leaves growing close to the earth. It somewhat resembles a tobacco plant, though tobacco does not exist in Mythic Europe. The root is about six inches long, fleshy, and has five lobes. It vaguely resembles a human figure with head, arms, and legs. Wrinkles and lumps on the uppermost lobe suggest a human face.''
''Mandrake of Virtue can be found beneath hangman’s trees (provided the tree is within a Magic aura or, at least, outside the Dominion). When a man is hanged, his semen is released and spills onto the earth.''
''Mandrake of Virtue sometimes springs from this seed. Mandrake root can be Enriched by a hedge wizard into a Thing of Virtue. This involves burying it under a mound of horse manure for a season, digging it up frequently to feed the root with blood, milk, and honey. After this process, the root becomes semi-animate, able to creep slowly about (one foot per minute). Its twitching and writhing can be interpreted to foretell the future, as well. Treat this as the Premonitions Virtue (the Enriched root grants the Ability Premonitions 3). The Enriched mandrake root must be fed blood in order to use this power (a Necessary Condition), but the blood need not be human. Mandrake has many other uses. It can be used to make a potent aphrodisiac and is a cure for many physical ailments. Some hedge wizards know the secret of converting a mandrake root into a kind of homunculus, which they use as Hermetic magi use familiars. This knowledge is obscure, but not totally unknown within the Order. It may require a story to find the correct magical process, or, if the storyguide prefers, she can allow a magus to simply bond the mandrake root as if it were an animal. At the end of the bonding process, the mandrake root looks like a little man about six inches high. Some wizards even provide their mandrakes with tiny clothes. Mandrake root screams when pulled from the ground; its scream is deadly to all who hear it. Hedge wizards usually employ a trick whereby they tie a hungry dog to the mandrake root. When the dog goes to sleep they bring some meat to just outside the reach of the rope and then hastily withdraw. When the dog awakens and lunges for the meat, the mandrake is uprooted. More enlightened magicians, including most Hermetic magi, simply use deaf servants to harvest mandrake root. Magi, of course, can use spells to render a person temporarily deaf. A mandrake root that is Enriched (but not one that is bonded as a homunculus) does not serve willingly and will try to cause mischief when it can.''
''Power: Cloak of the Duck’s Feathers, Lesser Power: Whiten the Wear of Travel, Lesser Power: The Woolen Cloud, Minor Virtue (x2): Tough, Wilderness Sense Personality Traits: Cloak* +3, Loyal +3, Protective +3, Fastidious +2 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Cloak (nonlethal): Init +1, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage –3 Soak: +6 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13+) Fatigue Levels: n/a Abilities: Awareness 1 (bodyguarding), Concentration 2 (maintaining powers), Folk Ken 1 (cleanliness), Latin 4 (magi), Legerdemain 1 (magic tricks), Order of Hermes Lore 1 (highborn women), Penetration 1 (Corpus), Survival 2 (at camp), Wilderness Sense 2 (weather) Powers: Cloak of the Duck’s Feathers, 0 points, constant, Aquam: See ArM5, page 124. Whiten the Wear of Travel, 0 points, Init –1, Animal and Terram  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind  When activated, all dirt and travel stains are removed from the cloak, and any small rips and tears (anything smaller than a Light Wound) are instantly mended.  Cr(Pe)An(Te) 20 (base 15, +1 requisite): Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost), mastery point from Cloak of the Duck’s Feathers (–1 Might cost) The Woolen Cloud, 0 points, Init –1, Animal and Corpus  R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind  For the duration, Amiculum can float upon the air and move slowly in any direction. While floating, it can support the weight of up to two human beings.  ReAn(Co) 20 (base 5, +1 Conc, +1 size, +1 requisite): Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost), mastery point from Cloak of the Duck’s Feathers (–1 Might cost) Vis: 1 Animal Appearance: Amiculum is a white woolen cloak with two sides; an intricate circle of red, green, and black is woven on the inside, which is large enough to surround a man who stands upon it.''
''Amiculum was enchanted as a talisman for its master, a Hermetic magus known for his interest in chivalry and courtly love. When he went into Twilight, his talisman went with him and returned from the experience as an independent magical being. Because of this''
''connection, it can affect its master with its powers as itself and does not need to penetrate his Parma Magica. As a cloak, it is mostly concerned about remaining clean and pure, and protecting its master against harm. While it understands a great deal of its master’s Latin and could converse with him, it chooses instead to remain silent so not to embarrass itself. Likewise, it is very conscious of keeping its place, and does not like to exercise its ability to move and to carry things. Kelpie''
''Kelpies are carnivorous magical creatures that live at the bottom of deep fresh-water pools. Their natural form is a writhing mass of oily black tentacles and sharp beaks that are capable of piercing the thickest amor, but kelpies also have the curious ability to transform into sleek, black horses. In this form, the kelpie-stallion exudes a musky charisma, allowing it to befriend other horses; it leads them to the edge of the pool where they are rapaciously devoured. Another favorite hunting technique of those kelpies that live near a road is to seek out weary travelers,''
''who it will entice into riding. Once the traveler is mounted, the kelpie dashes headlong into its pool — drowning and then consuming the rider. It is possible to tame and train a kelpie to serve as a fearsome mount — or even a beast of burden — and some magi have done so. A kelpie mount has an independent Magic''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: The Mandrake’s Scream''
''A hangman’s tree stands in a weak Magic aura at a crossroads near the covenant. One can occasionally find a Mandrake of Virtue growing under it. The court physician to an ailing nobleman has harvested a mandrake to cure his lord, but, tragically, the noble’s curious son secretly followed the physician and watched too closely — he was killed by the mandrake’s scream. The player characters might be called in to investigate the boy’s disappearance, or the physician might come to them asking for help.''

|}
''Resistance, does not tire easily, is very swift, and looks impressive but not overtly magical — in stallion form, at least. A trained kelpie can understand simple verbal instructions, including when to change form, and can also be ridden when in stallion form, using the''
''Ride Ability. A kelpie is a magical thing, so it must rest in a magic aura (usually a pool) in order to restore its Might Pool. The kelpie described here is a magical creature associated with deep pools. However, similar faerie creatures may exist.''
''Elementals''
''Elementals are magical creatures composed of very pure elemental matter. They are not truly alive, and are capable of neither growth nor reproduction. Instead, they form from pure physical matter under some magical impetus, such as a Magic aura. Nothing that is or has been alive can generate an elemental, nor can matter that is no longer in a raw state, but which has been moved, cut, or otherwise interfered with by a living being. The process of forming an elemental is called rarefication. This process causes atoms of matter to take on a pseudo-life of their own, freeing themselves from the atoms of other elements and self-organizing into an elemental. Usually only one elemental forms, of a maximum size determined by the amount of matter present. Magi of the Order know spells that can catalyze this process, but they may also create elementals by accident with careless use of elemental magic (see below for more details). Further, raw elemental matter possessing a Warping Score of 5 may spontaneously rarefy into an elemental; for example, a natural spring within a Magic Aura of 6 might generate a water elemental after 75 years. However, not all Warped matter develops an elemental, and this process is little understood by those who have studied it. Once rarefied, the elemental exists until it is destroyed; elementals do not age, they have no need for nutrition, and do not succumb to disease. They suffer from''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: To Break a Kelpie''
''A clan chief in the Scottish Highlands approaches the covenant wanting to commission the manufacture of a magical bridle that will allow him to capture and break a local kelpie (this could be achieved with a ReAn effect). The chieftain intends to use the kelpie to drag heavy stones to the site of a new fortress. The rapid construction of the fortress, aided by the labor of the kelpie, will tip the balance of power among the Highland clans — so, assisting the chieftain could be construed as interference in the mundane and hence a possible breach of the Peripheral Code.''

|}
''Character Guide: A Kelpie''
''Magic Might: 20 (Aquam) Characteristics:  (Native form) Cun +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +8, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –2  (Stallion form) Cun +1, Per +1, Pre +3, Com –2, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +3 Season: Summer Confidence: 1(3) (attacking) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ferocity, Lightning Reflexes, Tough; Magical Monster Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Improved Attack (x5), Improved Damage (x4), Improved Defense (x4), Improved Initiative (x2), Improved Soak (x3), Lesser Power (x2) Personality Traits: Fierce +3, Alluring +1 Reputations: Black horse on road 3 (local) Combat: (Native form) Tentacles: Init +4, Attack +10, Defense +11, Damage +8 Bite: Init –2, Attack +13, Defense +3, Damage +20 Combat: (Stallion form) Kick: Init –1, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +7 Soak: +11 Fatigue Levels: n/a. Wound Penalties: –1 (1-8), –3 (9-16), –5 (17-24), Incapacitated (25-32), Dead (33+) Abilities: (Area) Lore 2 (roads), Athletics 5 (galloping), Awareness 3 (roads), Brawl 5 (bite), Charm 3 (travelers), Hunt 5 (tracking), Stealth 3 (at night), Swim 3 (ambush) Powers: Equine metamorphosis, 3 points, Init –5, Aquam  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind  The kelpie ejects itself from its pool and in mid-flight the mass of slimy tentacles transforms into a glistening black stallion. The kelpie may at will return to its native form without an additional expenditure of Might, but if the kelpie is completely saturated''
''with water while in its stallion form, a Stamina Roll against an Ease Factor of 9 must be made, otherwise it reverts to its native form.  MuAq(An) 25 (Base 10, +2 Sun, + 1 Complex effect): Lesser Power (25 levels) Equine charisma, 2 points, Init –7, Imaginem  R: Sight, D: Sun, T: Ind  The kelpie makes itself alluring to its victim. This is automatically successful if the victim has a Cunning characteristic, but if the victim has an Intelligence characteristic then an Intelligence Roll against an Ease Factor of 9 will resist the effect (penalties for Fatigue apply, which makes weary travelers particularly susceptible). A victim with Cunning will follow the lead of a kelpie that it finds alluring, while an Intelligent victim will usually attempt to ride or capture the kelpie. This power may only be used while the kelpie is in stallion form.  CrIm 40 (Base 5, +3 Sight, +2 Sun, +2 Complex effect): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 cost) Fleet of Foot, 0 points, Constant, Animal:  R: Per, D: Constant, T: Ind  When in its stallion form, the kelpie can travel at about three times the speed of a normal horse (it can carry a rider about 100 miles in a day).  MuAn 15 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Constant effect): Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 cost) Equipment: None. Encumbrance: 0 Vis: 4 pawns of Aquam in the blood of the kelpie. Appearance: In native form the kelpie is a black, amorphous, and distended mass covered with an array of muscular tentacles, mouths, beaks, and sensory organs. It usually dwells at the bottom of a deep, shaded pool. In stallion form the kelpie appears to be a large, powerful, black horse as might be ridden into battle by a wealthy knight.''
''impulses that drive them to certain actions based on their elemental make-up, but they possess no capacity for thought in the traditional sense.''
''Magic and Elementals''
''Some magi who are skilled in elemental magic routinely create and bind elementals to their bidding, but the primitive sentience of these beings, combined with the difficulty in obtaining the appropriate raw materials and vis required, means that most do not bother. Ritual Creo spells can create elementals, and they may be controlled using Rego magic. New guidelines for these effects are given in the nearby insert. In addition, standard Rego guidelines may also create wards (or prisons) for elementals with spells that affect creatures from the Magic Realm, and Perdo Vim spells can destroy the Magic Might that animates their simple bodies. Other spells involving the elemental Forms may accidentally cause an elemental to rarefy, if cast on sufficiently pure matter that is already substantially Warped, such as that found within a Magic aura. The production of an elemental is a potential consequence of any botched spell or lab activity involving an elemental Form while in a Magic aura. Similarly, magic used to purify an element can have a similar effect — more than one Flambeau magus has tried to make his flames hotter, and accidentally rarefied a fire elemental.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''A Digression into Physics''
''The universe is made up of building blocks called atoms (from atomas, meaning “uncuttable”). There are four varieties of atoms, and each atom possesses two qualities that govern its nature: earth is cold and dry; water is cold and moist; air is hot and moist; and fire is hot and dry. The corpuscles of atoms are the basic building blocks of all matter, and have size, shape, and color. Corpuscles of earth are cubes, those of water are icosahedrons (shaped like a 20-sided die), air corpuscles are octahedrons (an eight-sided die), and fire corpuscles are tetrahedrons (a four-sided die or pyramid). The size of the corpuscles determine the type of matter that it forms. Small tetrahedral corpuscles make up the''
''fine blue fire that gives the sky its color; whereas large smoky flames are made from the largest corpuscles of fire. Air that is thin and pure is formed from small octahedra; whereas mist is made from large, dense octahedra. Oil receives its thickness from its large corpuscles of water; but very fine atoms make up volatile liquids like spirit of wine. Rock is made of large and heavy corpuscles; whereas sand is made of much finer cubes. The moist quality causes a thing to adapt to its external conditions, whereas dryness causes a thing to define its own shape and bounds. As a consequence, moist things tend to be volatile and expansive, since they can fill spaces in their''
''surroundings, whereas dry things are fixed and structured. Hotness causes matter to separate and seek those of its own kind, but coldness promotes mixing of matter and coagulation. The world is formed of four regions of elemental matter, with the self-defining dry elements forming the innermost layer of earth and the outermost layer of fire. The two cold elements sink to the center of the earth whereas the two hot ones seek to separate and rise, leaving the final order, from the center, as earth, water, air, and fire. Beyond the region of fire is the Lunar Sphere, which separates the material and the celestial realms. More details on this issue can be found in Art & Academe.''

|}
''New Elementals Spells and Spell Guidelines''

===Creo (Elemental Form)===

''Level 25: Create an elemental from a base amount of elemental matter (Ritual)''

===Muto (Elemental Form)===

''General: Convert part of an elemental’s body into another type of matter of the same element (soil to dust, wind to smoke, etc.), reducing the elemental’s Might pool by the level of the spell +10. If the elemental is not destroyed by this effect, when the duration ends it can restore this Might by re-absorbing the matter.''

===Rego (Elemental Form)===

''Level 5: Completely control an elemental''

===Perdo (Elemental Form)===

''General: Destroy sufficient matter to reduce an elemental’s Might Score by the level of the spell +10''

===New Elementals Spells===

''Rarefy the Crude Water Creo Aquam 30 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual This ritual spell rarefies a base amount''
''of water (up to a pool of 5 paces diameter and 2 paces deep) to bring a water elemental into existence. At its maximum size, the elemental has a Might of 15 and a Size of 0, but smaller bodies of water will yield smaller elementals. The character guides given later in the chapter describe typical elementals created by this spell. For larger (and thus more powerful) elementals, this spell must be invented with a Size modifier to the target, with each application of the modifier giving +3 Size. Since Size determines Might (see later), 1 extra size magnitude gives an elemental a Might of 20 (Size +3), 2 a Might of 25 (Size +6), etc. This spell doesn’t need to penetrate the Might of the elemental instantiated; until the completion of the spell, the elemental doesn’t exist. (base 25, +1 Touch)''
''Command the Living Fire Rego Ignem 20 R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind This spell allows the caster to control the actions of a fire elemental up to Size 0, if the Penetration Total exceeds the elemental’s Magic Might. For larger elementals, versions of the spell with a Size modifier to the Target are required. If an elemental is already under supernatural control, the most recent spell or power used is the one that commands it. (base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)''
''Realms of Power Designing Elementals''
''Elementals are simple beings, and their game statistics are similarly simple. The method below is primarily targeted at creating elementals as described in this chapter — non-sentient entities that rarefy from raw elemental matter under the influence of magic. However, the general principles can be applied to use an elemental as the starting point for a magic character. In this latter case, follow the procedure detailed in Chapter 4: Magic Characters, Magic Things, using the details here for guidance. Alternatively, the character guides given below can be easily updated for larger or smaller elementals with just a few changes.''
''Inherited Virtues: Magic Thing; Ways of the (Land) Inherited Flaws: Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded''

===Concept===

''An elemental is a Magic Thing rather than a creature — it is a collection of pure elemental matter animated by magic. The amount of elemental matter that consti''
''tutes the elemental determines its Size, and the type of elemental matter determines its Characteristics. Dryness is associated with Dexterity and Quickness, Coldness with Strength and Stamina, Moisture with Cunning and Perception, and Heat with Presence and Communication. Thus Earth elementals, which are dry and cold, are the most physical of all elementals, whereas air elementals are the most ephemeral, being predominantly moist and warm. Elementals are not sentient beings; their capacity to pursue their base drives and needs is represented by a Cunning score. The Communication of an elemental represents how willing it is to relay information it has gathered, although magic is required to understand it (using spells such as Words of the Flickering Flame or Voice of the Lake). Hot elementals will chatter everything that they sense, whereas cold elementals are taciturn and silent. Elementals do not have senses in the same manner as living beings, but they can sense perturbations in their own element. Thus a fire elemental can sense the heat in living beings just as a water elemental feels the liquid in them, while an earth elemental picks up the vibrations of their footsteps. An air elemental, the most perceptive of all, senses the eddies of air generated whenever a creature moves, and interprets sounds with accuracy.''
''Like other characters, elementals have 7 points to spend on Characteristics; however, they typically have a large proportion of Magical Qualities that affect their Characteristic scores. Most elementals have one Characteristic that is very high, one that is moderately high, one that is moderately poor, and one that is exceptionally poor. The actual scores in these Characteristics is related to their Might; typical values for the eight characteristics have been tabulated for a range of Might scores. The positive scores have been purchased with Magical Qualities that are exactly matched by Magical Inferiorities for the negative scores, so have a net cost of zero. The scores can be assigned to the Characteristics as desired, except that each type of elemental has some characteristics that cannot take a negative value:''
''Element No Negative Scores''
''Earth Str, Sta, Dex, Qik''
''Water Str, Sta, Cun, Per''
''Air Cun, Per, Pre, Com''
''Fire Pre, Com, Dex, Qik''
''Following assigning the characteristics, make the usual adjustment from Size, subtracting Size from Quickness and adding twice Size to Strength. All elementals have an intuitive understanding of the environment that spawned them, which amounts to the Ways of the (Land) Virtue. Since they are neither alive nor truly sentient, they also suffer from the Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, and Simple-Minded Flaws.''

===Season and Abilities===

''Elementals are almost always Spring characters, newly created and naïve to the world. All elementals have Brawl and Athletics (or, for water elementals, Swim), which must be bought at a score equal to the magnitude of the elemental’s Might with the character’s starting experience points. If there are insufficient experience points to purchase these Abilities at the required level, then the character must purchase Improved Abilities as a Minor Magical Quality sufficient times to make up the difference. There are few other Abilities that are suitable for elementals, although Area Lore, Awareness, Hunt, and Penetration are often possessed to some level.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Elemental Story Seeds''

===The Forgotten Child===

''A magus uses Incantation of Lightning (or a similar spell of 6th magnitude or greater) in a Magic aura, which inflicts the last Warping point needed to rarefy an elemental. Unaware of what he’s done, he moves on. The elemental he has unwittingly created causes no end of trouble for the locals. Eventually the magus discovers his error, and must put right what he has wrought.''

===The Unforgiving Sea===

''Concerned that a colleague has not been heard from for a while, the player magi are dispatched to see if anything is wrong. The magus — an expert in Aquam — discovered a way to increase the Might (and size) of his pet water elemental, using raw Aquam vis that he transferred (ArM5, page 94) into a sufficient quantity of pure elemental matter. The infused wa''
''ter was then absorbed by the elemental as the magus cast a Creo Aquam spell (with a Vim requisite) of his own devising. Unfortunately for the magus, the elemental became too powerful for him to control, and he is now trapped in his sanctum. Alternatively, the characters may just come across his shattered laboratory and his lab texts, and not realize the danger involved in re-creating his work.''

===Lunchtime in the Vis Stores===

''The characters discover some Terram vis in a patch of clay lying in a region with no mystical aura. They take it home to their covenant and put it in their vis stores. Now that it is in a Magic aura, the elemental can start to recover its exhausted Might pool, and it consumes the magi’s other Terram vis to make itself larger. When the characters next visit their vis stores, they are in for a surprise.''

|}

===Might and Qualities===

''An elemental’s Might is determined solely by the size of the concretion of pure elemental matter from which it forms. One rarefied from a mountain will have a vast Might score, whereas one coming from a single flame will be as weak as possible. An elemental with a Might of 1 is a mere handful of atoms at Size –18: a lick of flame, a drop of water, a puff of air, or a pebble. Every increase in magnitude of Might (as if it were a spell) adds three to the Size. Thus an elemental of Might 2 is Size –15, one of Might 5 is Size –6, and one of Might 15 is Size 0. Powerful elementals get big very quickly: an elemental with a Magic Might of 30 is bigger than a whale! Once the Might of the character has been decided, the Size of the character can be derived from the nearby table; elemental characters do not need to buy Magical Qualities or Inferiorities to get to this Size. All elementals have the No Fatigue Magical Quality and the Temporary Might Magical Inferiority like other Magic Things, but these do not count towards their normal allocation of Qualities and Inferiorities. All elementals have one obligatory Greater Power (Crush, Drown, Suffocate, or Burn for Earth, Water, Air, and Fire elementals respectively). Elementals cannot use weapons or armor, and their natural attacks have no modifiers to their combat totals unless Magical Qualities have been purchased.''

===Elemental Combat===

''Elementals are not living, thus they cannot suffer wounds; instead, each blow separates some of their substance from their animating force. In practice, this works the same as inflicting wounds on a living creature, but each wound also reduces the elemental’s Might Pool by a number of points equal to the Wound Penalty. An Incapacitating Wound removes 5 Might points, just like a Heavy Wound. The elemental’s Might score does not change, so there is no need to recalculate Size following a wound. An elemental that is reduced to a Might pool of zero suffers the usual effects of this state (see Chapter 4: Magic Characters, Incapacitation and Exhausted Might). However, an elemental additionally loses its animating force and becomes inanimate. In this state it can easily be mistaken for raw vis. As soon as the elemental regenerates''
''a point of Might pool it can move again, but since all elementals have the Temporary Might Inferiority they have difficulty recovering Might. An elemental could remain dormant for many years before the presence of the correct flavor of vis brings it back to pseudo-life. The pieces of the elemental’s body broken off during physical combat contain vis; see Chapter 3: Magic Characters, Magical Inferiorities, Temporary Might for more details. This vis is easily collected for water and earth elementals, less so for air and fire elementals. This vis can be used by a magus to power spells before the elemental is destroyed, although it is often difficult to collect it in the middle of a fight. In addition, the elemental instinctively tries to reunite its matter with itself, and may well manage to re-absorb the vis and replenish its Might pool. If an elemental is damaged by destroying its matter — using Perdo (Form) or Perdo Vim spells, or water against a fire elemental, for example — then the vis is also destroyed.''

===Elemental Powers===

''All elementals have a power that results from the elemental matter from which their bodies are made, and a power that describes their natural method of attack. Magic Resistance can prevent the elemental from touching its opponent, but the elemental does not need to spend Might points for this attack. Most elementals have at least one other power. This power should be strongly tied to the type and origin of the magical entity. Typical powers are listed with the descriptions of the elementals.''
''Earth Elementals''
''The earth elementals are known to the Order as genomi (singular genomus, meaning “earth-living”), but they go by a number of other names including gnomes (contracted from their Hermetic name), pygmaei, and telluri. They may be rarefied from any large concretion of earth that has not been worked by human hands, such as untilled soil, natural rock features, and naturally occurring nuggets of metal. It is no harder to rarefy a genomus from soil than it is from metal, but the quantity of raw material available limits the size of the elemental created — a gold nugget of Size –10 can only produce an elemental with Might 3. Genomi are extraordinarily long-lived, and are as durable as the substance from which they are formed. They are patient predators, driven by an unslakable thirst to extract the delicious moisture from living beings. They are fiercely territorial, and will attack any being who intrudes upon their defined space; thus genomi make excellent guards — most attacks from a genomus result from having stood upon one! An earth elemental appears much like any other object of earth or rock, except it is made up of sharp edges and right-angled corners that form cubic corpuscles of different sizes. Earth elementals move by sliding these cubic components around in endless cycles; this appears awkward and laborious in hard-bodied genomi, but can be hypnotically smooth in those made of sand or soil. Genomi are exceptionally strong and remarkably fast. An earth elemental made from a hard substance attacks by bludgeoning its prey with its stone limbs. Softer genomi of sand and soil will engulf their prey first by making a grapple attack, and then crush the immobilized target within their bodies.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Size, Might, and Characteristics of Elementals''
''Like other Magic Things (see Chapter 3: Magic Characters), the Size of an elemental is dependent on the Might chosen for it, and is not purchased with Magical Qualities or Inferiorities. The Might of an elemental also determines its typical Characteristics. The table below indicates values for the eight Characteristics at different Might scores. Each of these sets of Characteristics has been purchased with Magical Qualities and Inferiorities that exactly cancel out, resulting in a zero overall cost.''
''Might	 Size Characteristics  1 –18 +2, +2, +1, +1, +1, 0, –1, –1  5 –6 +3, +2, +1, +1, 0, 0, –1, –2 10 –3 +3, +3, +1, +1, 0, 0, –1, –3 15 0 +4, +3, +2, +1, 0, 0, –2, –4 20 +3 +6, +5, +2, +2, +1, 0, –5, –6 25 +6 +7, +6, +2, +2, +1, 0, –6, –7 30 +9 +8, +6, +2, +2, +1, 0, –6, –8 35 +12 +9, +7, +2, +2,+1, 0, –7, –9 40 +15 +10, +8, +2, +2, +1, 0, –8, –10 45 +18 +11, +9, +2, +2, +1, 0, –9, –11 50 +21 +12, +9, +2, +2, +1, 0, –9, –12''

|}
''A Size 0 earth elemental is a boulder about one pace in diameter. A Size +9 genomus is as tall as a small cliff; whereas a Size +15 genomus is the size of a hill. The elemental’s body is composed entirely of soil, sand, or rock. It can match a walking man for speed, and overtake a running horse when tumbling downhill. Only bludgeoning weapons such as hammers, maces, or axes can damage an earth elemental; piercing or slashing weapons will merely plunge into the body of a soil elemental or glance off the surface of a rock elemental. Spades and picks are also effective weapons.''

===Sample Powers===

''All earth elementals have this power:''
''Crush 0 points, Init equal to (Qik–2), Terram R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind The elemental clubs at an opponent with its heavy limbs, requiring a normal melee attack. If the elemental is at least equal in Size to its opponent, a successful Crush attack can pin him to the ground, and the elemental adds its (Might/5, rounded up) to its Grap''
''ple Strength to prevent its victim escaping (ArM5, page 174). If the elemental successfully grapples, then any equipment carried by its victim is damaged; fragile items are destroyed, robust items are broken (and are destroyed if affected again by this power), and metal items are damaged (and are broken if affected again by this power). Re(Pe)Te 30 (base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 affect stone, +1 requisite, +1 constant effect): Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost, +1 Init) Some earth elementals have the following powers. Other powers typically mimic Terram spells, particularly Rego Terram spells.''
''The Red Touch 1 point, Init equal to (Qik + 5), Terram R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The touch of the elemental can rust metal; every time it is struck in combat by a metal object, or successfully strikes a being with metal armor, it can convert that metal into a thoroughly rusted object that will crumble to dust. PeTe 10 (base 3, +1 Touch, +2 affect metal): Greater Power (10 levels, –1 Might cost, +7 Init)''
''Slake Thirst 1 point, Init equal to (Qik + 4), Aquam R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part Earth elementals are always thirsty, and direct contact with the elemental removes water from the target, inflicting a Fatigue level of damage. Once all Fatigue levels are gone, successive strikes (or rounds of contact) inflict a Light Wound, then a Medium Wound, then a Heavy Wound, and so forth. Fatigue levels may be restored by drinking at least two pints of water (for a Size 0 individual), while wounds are healed as normal. PeAq 15 (base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Part): Greater Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost, +6 Init)''
''Water Elementals''
''The lymphae (“pure waters”) are also called undines, undena, or ondines (all from Latin unda, meaning “fluid, wave”), as well as aquacolae (“water dwellers”), nymphs (a term also applied to certain faeries), and alcyones. Only naturally occurring liquids can produce elementals, typically of salt or fresh water. Water that has been separated from its source cannot be rarefied into a lympha, nor can liquid extracted from its source by human effort. Lymphae in a relaxed state sink into a thin film or puddle, perhaps even soaking into the ground. They can pull themselves up into symmetrical humps faceted with triangular units — their corpuscles are naturally icosahedral. The fluid that makes them is always of the utmost purity, often crystal clear and sparkling. Lymphae have the best capacity for learning and understanding of all elementals, and are remarkably resilient to damage. However, their slow and languorous movements make them unsuitable as protectors. They are driven by their nature to collect and mix substances together, and their homes are often the site of eclectic collections of garbage that they have gathered. They commonly attack by pulling their opponents down to the ground and then smothering them, separating and recombining their possessions with an obsessive interest. A Size-0 lympha constitutes a pool of water about 4 feet across and 2 feet deep. At Size +3, the elemental is the size of a small pond or stream; at Size +6 that of a small lake; and at Size +12 equal to a lake, inlet, or respectably sized river. A water elemental’s body is composed entirely of water. It can roll across the ground, either slowly if derived from a''
''body of still water, or as fast as the current if from a river or stream. The elemental’s speed is halved if moving up even a gentle incline. Most weapons are meaningless to a lympha — blades and piercing weapons simply pass straight through, although bludgeoning weapons can still harm them. A water elemental’s attacks only inflict Scuffle damage (ArM5, page 175), and it often attempts to disarm, trip, or grab worn items with its Attack Advantage rather than inflict damage (ArM5, page 175). A source of fire that does damage less than the elemental’s Might is extinguished on contact, while more-powerful flames will evaporate the elemental’s body, inflicting “wounds” as normal. Successful fire attacks destroy any Aquam vis that might have been present in the evaporated matter.''

===Sample Powers===

''All water elementals have this power:''
''Drown 0 points, Init equal to (Qik – 2), Aquam R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind After successful melee attack, the elemental can engulf a target whose Size is smaller than its own and attempt to drown him, necessitating a roll to avoid deprivation (ArM5, pages 180-181). The victim can attempt to escape from its clutches each round using the Grappling rules (ArM, page 174). ReAq(Co) 30 (base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite, +1 constant effect): Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost, +1 Init)''
''Some water elementals have the following powers. Other powers typically mimic Aquam spells, particularly Rego Aquam spells.''
''Chill Touch 2 points, Init equal to (Qik + 4), Ignem R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The lympha’s touch extracts heat from a target, inflicting +10 damage. This damage is Soaked without the benefit of armor, as the watery body of the elemental seeps through all protection. PeIg 15 (base 10, +1 Touch): Greater Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost, +6 Init).''
''Sight of the River 2 points, Init equal to (Qik – 1), Imaginem R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Room The elemental can view any location to which it has an unbroken connection of water, regardless of the distance involved. Thus, it may see anyone on the same river, touching''
''the opposite shores of its sea, or even standing on the same earth through the water that makes soil damp. Someone standing on a stone or wood surface would be invisible to''
''it, however. Anyone who can share senses with the elemental can see what it sees. InIm 20 (base 1, +4 Arcane, +1 Conc, +2 Room): Lesser Power (20 levels, +1 Init).''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Character Guide: An Earth Elemental''
''Magic Might: 15 (Terram) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –4, Str +3, Sta +6, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ways of the Cavern; Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Crush), Greater Power (Slake Thirst), Improved Stamina; Improved Attack, Improved Damage x 2, Minor Virtue (Berserk), Minor Virtue (Great Stamina), Minor Virtue (Tough) Personality Traits: Cave +3* Combat: Bludgeon*: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +7, Damage +9 Bludgeon when Berserk*: Init +3, Attack +13, Defense –5, Damage +9''
''*Includes Ways of the Cavern Soak: +9 (additional +2 when Berserk) Wound Penalties: –1 & 1 Might point (1– 5), –3 & 3 Might points (6–10), –5 & 5 Might points (11–15), Incapacitated & 5 Might points (16–20), Dead & all Might points (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (pursuit), Awareness 2 (interlopers), Brawl 3 (bludgeon), Penetration 3 (Slake Thirst Power), Stealth 2 (keeping still) Powers: Crush, 0 points, Init –2, Terram: see above for details Slake Thirst, 1 point, Init +4, Aquam: see above for details Vis: 3 pawns of Terram, in body Note: This elemental was rarefied in a cavern with a Magic aura, and guards the vis source found therein with a furious passion.''
''Character Guide: A Water Elemental''
''Magic Might: 15 (Aquam) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun +4, Per –2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –4 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ways of the River; Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Drown), Greater Power (Chill Touch), Focus Power (Crafter of Water); Improved Attack, Improved Damage, Improved Defense, Minor Virtue (Improved Characteristics — applied to Strength), Minor Virtue (Puissant Hunt), Minor Virtue (Tough) Personality Traits: River +3* Combat: Bludgeon: Init –4, Attack +8, Defense +3, Damage +6 Bludgeon*: Init –1, Attack +11, Defense +6, Damage +6  *Includes Ways of the River Soak: +6''
''Wound Penalties: –1 & 1 Might point (1– 5), –3 & 3 Might points (6–10), –5 & 5 Might points (11–15), Incapacitated & 5 Might points (16–20), Dead & all Might points (21+) Abilities: Athletics 2 (when hunting), Brawl 3 (bludgeon), Hunt 3+3 (river banks), Penetration 2 (Chill Touch power), Swim 3 (speed) Powers: Drown, 0 points, Init +0, Aquam: see text for details. Chill Touch, 2 point, Init 0, Ignem: see above for details. Crafter of Water, 1 – 3 points, Init –4 – Might Cost, Aquam: duplicate any Creo Aquam or Rego Aquam spell of level 15 or below, at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the spell. See Chapter 3: Common Powers for more details. Vis: 3 pawns of Aquam, in body Notes: This lympha haunts the river banks near its home, preying on the warmth of small creatures who dwell there.''

|}
''Realms of Power Air Elementals''
''Zephyrus is the name given to an air elemental by members of the Order of Hermes, but they are also known as silvestres, sylphs, aeoliae (wind elementals), nenuphas (cloud elementals), and brontes (thunder and lightning elementals). Any air under the open sky or any natural weather phenomenon can produce a zephyrus. A zephyrus is composed of chains of octohedral corpuscles: in wind elementals, these chains form ropes; cloud elementals consist of interlocked loops; and a lightning elemental is a branched chain of scintillating energy. Zephyri are utterly restless — they cannot remain still, even for a moment. They are travelers, moving through the world beneath the sky unless constrained by magic. They rarely descend from their lofty heights, but are occasionally curious about what is going on below them. They are highly perceptive, and are aware of everything going on around their home. They can sense the slightest movement of air from any direction, and are impossible to catch by surprise. They crave''
''the disintegration of rigidity and barriers, and many are capable of dissolving structured matter. A patch of mist constitutes a Size 0 elemental; a Size +4 zephyrus is a wind of sufficient strength to blow a man down, or a small cloud; a Size +6 air elemental is a large cloud; at Size +9 it is a bolt of lightning reaching from the clouds to earth; and at Size +12, a medium-sized storm. A zephyrus’ body is composed entirely of air. It is capable of moving through landscape unobstructed by other objects in its way, and can enter any space that is not air-tight. The speed of movement varies by elemental type: a mist elemental can roll at walking pace, whereas a lightning elemental is literally lightning fast. Weapons are meaningless to a creature with this power, they simply pass straight through. However, the elemental has no natural attack and must use its powers instead.''

===Sample Powers===

''All air elementals have this power:''
''Suffocate 0 points, Init equal to (Qik – 2), Auram R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind The elemental surrounds its opponent and enters its lungs, necessitating a roll to avoid deprivation (ArM5, pages 180181). Escaping the elemental requires the victim to get away from the elemental; its airy body can be simply walked through, but the elemental usually pursues its victim. Compare Quickness + Athletics stress rolls of the victim and the elemental (using Might/5 for the elemental’s Athletics); the highest wins. Trying to escape requires a Fatigue roll for the strenuous action (ArM5, 178). PeAu(Co) 30 (base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite, +1 constant effect): Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost, +1 Init)''
''Some air elementals have the following powers. Other powers typically mimic Auram spells, particularly Rego Auram spells.''
''Dissolution 3 points, Init equal to Qik, Animal, Corpus or Terram R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind The cohesiveness of a base Individual of Terram is lost, making it melt as if heated strongly, although the power imparts no heat to the object. Armor drips off its wearer, swords collapse like melting butter, and so forth. At the end of the round, the matter re-solidifies into its new shape. If the item is enchanted, the elemental’s Penetration must exceed five times the total pawns of vis invested. The moisture of living bodies prevents them from such a devastating effect; nevertheless, hair, toenails, teeth, claws, and bone are all affected, inflicting +15 damage and ignoring protection from armor. MuTe(Aq, Co, An) 25 (base 3, +2 Voice, +2 affect metal, +2 affect humans and animals): Greater Power (25 levels, –2 Might cost, +3 Init).''
''Jupiter’s Touch 5 points, Init equal to (Qik – 2), Auram R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The touch of the elemental causes a flash of coruscating lightning, inflicting +30 damage. This power is suitable for a lightning or storm elemental. CrAu 30 (base 5, +1 Touch, +4 unnatural): Greater Power (30 levels, –2 Might cost, +2 Init).''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Character Guide: An Air Elemental''
''Magic Might: 15 (Auram) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +3, Sta –4, Dex –2, Qik +4 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ways of the Storm; Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Suffocate), Greater Power (Jupiter’s Touch), Greater Power (Charge of the Angry Winds), Major Virtue (Shapeshifter); Improved Abilities, Improved Powers (+3 Init to Jupiter’s Touch Power), Minor Virtue (Keen Vision) Personality Traits: Storm +3* Combat: Jupiter’s Touch Power*: Init +5, Attack +5, Defense n/a, Damage +30  * Includes Way of the Storms Soak: N/A Wound Penalties: –1 & 1 Might point (1– 5), –3 & 3 Might points (6–10), –5 & 5 Might points (11–15), Incapacitated & 5 Might points (16–20), Dead & all''
''Might points (21+) Abilities: Area Lore 3 (high points), Athletics 3 (storm force winds), Awareness 3 (metal objects), Brawl 3 (Jupiter’s Touch Power), Penetration 2 (Jupiter’s Touch Power), Shapeshifter 4 (birds) Powers: Suffocate, 0 points, Init +2, Auram: see above for details Jupiter’s Touch, 5 point, Init +2, Auram: see above for details Charge of the Angry Winds, 1 point, Init +6, Auram: As the spell of the same name; add the elemental’s Strength to all the Ease Factors for acting within the wind. CrAu 15 (base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Conc, +1 unnatural): Greater Power (35 levels, –1 Might cost, +4 Init, +15 experience points in Penetration) Vis: 3 pawns of Auram, in body. Notes: A creature born of storms, it uses its devastating attack only rarely, since it has such a high Might cost. Its Shapeshifter Virtue allows it to adopt the forms of the creatures it has seen: a raven, an eagle, a hound, and a bull.''

|}
''Magic Fire Elementals''
''Fire elementals, or phlegethi (singular phlegethus, meaning “burners”), also go by a host of other names, such as ignigena (Latin for “fire-born”), vulcans, rolamandri, salamanders (not to be confused with the Beasts of Virtue), and aethnici (a term also used for fiery demons; see Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 67). They are uncommon on earth, for they can only rarefy from naturally occurring sources of flame — usually lightning strikes, but occasionally earth-fires, certain natural alchemical reactions, or the fire from the upper atmosphere. Feeding a naturally lit fire with fuel does not inhibit rarefication, and once formed, a fire elemental can consume normal fuel. A fire elemental is often shortlived, lasting as long as it has fuel, and prone to sudden movements of remarkable speed. Man’s fascination for fire is often enhanced when viewing fire elementals, and they can easily beguile those who stare too deeply. An phlegethus appears as a collection of flames that move contrary to nature. Each flame is actually a tetrahedron; sometimes these pyramids may be stretched long and thin, while at other times they may be low and flat. The motivations and instincts of a fire elemental are basic: they desire to burn, to consume cold and replace it with heat, and to escape confinement. A phlegethus of Size 0 is the size of a typical bonfire. The fire from a lightningstruck tree would raise a Size +6 fire elemental, and a volcano is capable of spawning the largest phlegethi, up to Size +21. The body of a fire elemental is composed entirely of fire. The elemental can only cross surfaces composed of potentially flammable material; the more flammable it is, the faster it can move. Through typical vegetation in a temperate climate, a fire elemental can move at the speed of a running man. It may also jump a gap of non-flammable surface (such as bare rock) up to a width equal to its Magic Might in feet. Weapons are meaningless to a phlegethus; they simply pass straight through the elemental, and may catch fire. A source of water that is smaller than the elemental’s Size is evaporated on contact. Larger sources of water quench the elemental’s body, inflicting “wounds” as if it were fire damage; typically +5 to +10 damage, but possibly more depending on the quantity. Successful water attacks destroy any Ig''
''nem vis that might have been present in the evaporated matter.''

===Sample Powers===

''All fire elementals have this power:''
''Burn 0 points, Init equal to (Qik–2), Ignem R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind Anyone touching or being touched by a fire elemental takes damage equal to a stress die plus the entity’s current Might pool. This is the usual melee attack of a phlegethus. Any flammable material catches fire on contact; typically, clothes inflict +10 damage per round on their wearer until they are extinguished. Any metal coming into contact with the elemental’s body for more than a round heats up, causing the effects of Heat of the Searing Forge, but this does not include weapons that attempt to strike it in combat. Cr(Re)Ig 30 (base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 requisite, +1 constant effect): Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Might cost, +1 Init)''
''Some fire elementals have the following powers. Other powers typically mimic Ignem spells, particularly Rego Ignem spells.''
''Fascination 3 points, Init equal to (Qik + 4), Mentem R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind The swirling colors in the elemental’s flames can entrance all those who see it. Those failing an Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 will stare gape-mouthed at the elemental, unable to act. This roll may be attempted once per round. ReMe 15 (base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun): Greater Power (15 levels, –1 Might cost, +6 Init).''
''Heat of the Searing Forge 1 point, Init equal to (Qik + 6), Ignem R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind Like the Creo Ignem spell of the same name. Note that this power works at a distance, whereas the Burn power affects only items that touch the elemental. CrIg 10 (base 4, +2 Voice): Greater Power (10 levels, –1 Might cost, +7 Init)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Character Guide: A Fire Elemental''
''Magic Might: 15 (Ignem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Cun 0, Per –2, Pre +3, Com +1, Str –4, Sta 0, Dex +5, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ways of the Forest Fire; Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Burn), Greater Power (Fascination), Ritual Power (Enliven the Gross Fire); Great Dexterity, Improved Recovery x 2*, Improved Soak x 2, Minor Virtue (Lightning Reflexes)  * Recovers Might points in one quarter of the time, which for an elemental means 3 weeks rather than a season. For a Might 15 elemental this is approximately 2 Might point every 3 days. Personality Traits: Forest Fire +3* Combat: Burn Power*: Init +3, Attack +12, Defense n/a, Damage +(Might Pool)  * Includes Way of the Forest Fire Soak: +4''
''Wound Penalties: –1 & 1 Might point (1– 5), –3 & 3 Might points (6–10), –5 & 5 Might points (11–15), Incapacitated & 5 Might points (16–20), Dead & all Might points (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (leaping between fuel sources), Brawl 3 (Burn Power), Charm 3 (small animals), Penetration 3 (Fascination Power) Powers: Burn, 0 points, Init +0, Ignem: see above for details Fascination, 3 points, Init +6, Mentem: see above for details Enliven the Gross Fire, 6 points, Init –10, Ignem: See Chapter 4: Common Powers for more details. Vis: 3 pawns of Ignem, in body. Notes: Born of a lightning strike hitting a magically tainted tree (perhaps a vis source), this elemental has the frightening power to spawn more fire elementals, which it does if fought with water.''

|}
''The beasts of Mythic Europe are not quite the same as normal animals in the real world. The ferocity of wild animals, in particular, is exaggerated for dramatic purposes. In Mythic Europe, it is not uncommon for beasts such as wolves to attack humans.''
''Beast Statistics''
''Beasts’ Characteristics may take any value, even exceeding –5 or +5. Beasts do not need a Virtue or Flaw to have Characteristics outside the normal human range of –3 to +3. Their starting Characteristics depend on their ecological niche (predator, herbivore, etc.) and are different from the average human Characteristics of all zeroes. As stated in ArM5, p. 191, mundane beasts have a Characteristic called Cunning in place of an Intelligence score. Use Cunning for rolls that would otherwise call for Intelligence, such as finding a way out of a closed barn. Beasts have a limited capacity for problem-solving but they lack imagination, reason, and intelligence as such. Because they lack intelligence, beasts cannot learn new Abilities unless they are trained by an intelligent being. They can improve Abilities their species already has. For beasts, the Quickness Characteristic has mainly to do with reflexes and agility, and little to do with movement rate. Many animals can run faster than a human, but that does not necessarily mean they should have better Initiative and Defense scores. Animals that run fast, but do not have especially good reflexes, have a note giving them a bonus to running-related rolls. All mundane beasts have no Might and contain no vis.''
''Modifying Beast Sizes''
''Some beasts cover a range of Size categories, and any beast might have its Size magically altered. To increase the Size of a beast, add 2 points of Strength and subtract one point of Quickness for each point of Size added. To decrease size, subtract 2 points of Strength and add one point of Quickness for each point of Size subtracted. Update combat statistics according to the new Characteristics. Larger animals are more powerful, but relatively ungainly.''
''Beast Virtues, Flaws, and Qualities''
''Each species of beast has certain Virtues and Flaws that are common to all members of that species. Species Virtue and Flaws are not given for game balance reasons, but rather to provide rules for the unique strengths and qualities of beasts. When designing your own species, simply assign the Virtues and Flaws that describe the species the way you imagine it. It is recommended that a species have at least one point of Flaws for every three points of Virtues. All beasts get their species’ Virtues and Flaws for free. Exceptional beasts may also take individual Virtues or Flaws that set them apart from others of their kind. Any individual Virtues a beast takes must be balanced with individual Flaws, just as for human characters. Qualities are features of the animal that affect its capabilities. See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (pages 40–43) for a list of Qualities and their effects.''
''New Virtues for Beasts''
''Ferocity minor, beasts only Like a magus or companion character, you have Confidence points. Unlike a human character, you may use your Confidence Points only in situations where your natural animal ferocity is triggered, such as when defending your den or fighting a natural enemy. Describe a situation that activates your Confidence score, and take three points for you to use when those circumstances are met.''
''Beasts in Combat''
''Beasts fight much as humans do: they can use most combat options from the Obstacles chapter, including disengaging, (untrained) group combat, exertion, and nonlethal combat. Beasts are clever enough to use exertion and other combat options to their best advantage. Only a few beasts have the cooperative instincts to fight as a trained group. All others must use the untrained group rules. Beasts with the Ferocity Virtue have Confidence Points, which may be spent in battle under certain circumstances. Some beasts have more than one natural weapon. The best weapon is always listed first. Secondary weapons are less effective, but might be useful when the primary weapon is unavailable. For example, a bear usually relies on its claws, but might attack with its teeth while climbing with its claws after a victim. Regardless of how many weapons a beast has, it may only attack with one weapon in a given round.''

=Book of Mundane Beasts=

''Appendix''
''Magic Beasts of Mythic Europe''
''The following beasts can be used in any Ars Magica 5th Edition saga.''
''Adder (Viperis)''
''Characteristics: Cun –1, Per –2, Pre –6, Com –6, Str –8, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size: –4 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Lightning Reflexes, Infamous Qualities: Ambush Predator, Loathsome Appearance, Slippery, Venomous Personality Traits: Hostile +2 Reputations: Venomous (local) 4 Combat: Fangs: Init +3, Attack +8, Defense +7*, Damage –7; * +6 to Defense vs grapple attacks Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Awareness 2 (prey), Brawl 2 (fangs), Hunt 4 (rodents), Stealth 4 (stalking prey), Survival 3 (grassy areas) Powers: Venomous Bite, 0 Points, Init 0. When the adder attacks, compare its Attack Advantage to the victim’s armor Protection (not his Soak). If the adder’s advantage is higher, the victim suffers the effects of adder venom as listed in the Poison Table on p. 180 of ArM5, regardless of whether the bite inflicts an actual wound. The storyguide may adjust the required Attack Advantage for special circumstances: for instance, high boots might offer an effective Protection +3 against the adder’s special attack even though they don’t protect against normal attacks. Natural Weapons: Fangs: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Appearance: The common adder is a small snake, usually about a foot and a half in length. Its color varies from pale grey or yellow to red, with diamond-shaped black markings along its back. Some individuals are completely black. The adder’s head is triangular in shape.''
''The adder is a venomous snake commonly found throughout Mythic Europe (except in Ireland). It is hardy enough to hibernate through the winter. It hunts rodents, lizards, and frogs by hiding and waiting for prey to pass nearby. Its venom is weak and can sicken, but not usually kill, a man. The adder is prone to attack reflexively''
''when anything stumbles across its hiding place (see the Lightning Reflexes Virtue, ArM5 page 45). If the adder attacks a victim who is unaware of its presence, it automatically wins Initiative in the first round of combat and gains a +3 to its Attack Total for the first round only. Because it’s so thin and flexible, the adder gains a +6 bonus to Defense against grapple attacks.''
''Bear (Ursus)''
''Characteristics: Cun +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –5, Str +6, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Ferocity (when injured), Improved Characteristics (x2), Tough, Greedy (minor), Reclusive Qualities: Aggressive, Extra Natural Weapons (claws), Fast Runner, Grapple, Hardy, Imposing Appearance, Large Claws, Pursuit Predator, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Brave +3, Slothful +3, Aggressive +2 Reputations: Ferocious (local) 2 Combat: Claws: Init 0, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +10 Teeth: Init 0, Attack +11, Defense +7, Damage +7 Grapple: Init 0, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage n/a Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15– 21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (sprinting), Awareness 3 (prey), Brawl 5 (claws), Hunt 4 (deer), Survival 5 (foraging), Swim 3 (against the current) Natural Weapons: Large Claws: Init 0, Atk +5, Def +3, Dam +4; Teeth: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. The bear’s tough hide and thick fur combine to give it a Protection of +3. Appearance: The bear is a large, shaggy beast that weighs up to fifty stone (700 pounds) and stands over seven feet tall on its hind legs. Its coat may be light brown or yellowish in color to black; most often, it is medium brown. The bear has large claws and makes a bellowing roar.''
''The only bear species that exists in Mythic Europe is known today as the brown bear. It can be found throughout Mythic Europe in forests, mountains, and even the northern tundra. Its range extends across North Africa and through Asia as well. It is most common in wilderness areas like the Pyrenees, the Alps, and Scandinavia and Russia.''
''The bear makes its lair in the earth, either in a cave or in a den it digs with its mighty claws. It lives mainly by foraging but can hunt and kill anything up to the size of a red deer. Men hunt the bear by setting deadfalls or chasing it with hounds. Few dare to engage it at close range with spears, for it is extremely powerful, and ferocious when wounded. The brown bear can run quickly, gaining a +3 bonus to rolls involving running. It can stand on its hind legs so as to attack a man on horseback. It can climb trees and is a strong swimmer. According to Pliny the Elder, the he-bear sleeps for forty days in winter and the shebear sleeps for four months. The bear cub is born a shapeless lump of flesh until the shebear licks it into the shape of a little bear.''
''Boar, Wild (Aper)''
''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per 0, Pre –4, Com –5, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Berserk, Enduring Constitution, Ferocity (when cornered), Tough, Greedy (minor), Wrathful (minor) Qualities: Aggressive, Hardy, Herd Animal, Tireless, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Brave +4, Angry +3 Reputations: Ill-tempered (local) 2 Combat: Tusks: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +7 Tusks (berserk): Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +7, Damage +7 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –2/–2, –4/–4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (sprinting), Awareness 3 (foraging), Brawl 5 (tusks), Survival 5 (forests) Natural Weapons:  Tusks: Init 0, Atk +4, Def +2, Dam +5. The boar’s hide has a Protection of +2. Appearance: The wild boar has prominent tusks and a hairy ridge along its spine. It is densely covered in short bristles ranging in color from grey to black or brown. Its legs are longer than those of a domestic pig and it can run quickly for short distances.''
''The wild boar lives in forests throughout Mythic Europe, where it forages by night and rests by day. Wild swine travel in groups called sounders of twenty or more individuals, though they are also encountered singly. In France and England the boar is called la bête noire, “the black beast,” for its evil''
''temper. It is a favorite sport of noblemen, who hunt it from horseback using hounds, lances, and swords. According to Pliny the Elder, the wild boar toughens its hide by rubbing against trees. Boars vary greatly in size, from eight stone (112 pounds) to more than thirty stone (420 pounds). The largest boars are Size +1.''
''Bull (Taurus)''
''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre –4, Com –4, Str +5, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Affinity with Brawl, Ferocity (charging), Tough, Oversensitive (to provocation) Qualities: Aggressive, Domesticated, Tough Hide Personality Traits: Aggressive +2 Reputations: Strong 4 (local) Combat: Horns: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +3, Damage +7 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15– 21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (charging), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 5 (horns) Natural Weapons: Large horns: Init +2, Atk +3, Def +2, Dam +3. The bull’s tough hide has a Protection of +2. Appearance:. These statistics are for a bull of the Spanish type, which is black in color, weighs about eighty stone (1120 pounds), and has sharp, inward-curving horns and a hump on its back.''
''There are many breeds of cattle in Mythic Europe, some of them larger than this specimen. Most breeds in Mythic Europe are short and broad-bodied and have long horns. They may be black, white, tan, red, or brown in color. Some breeds have a coat of shaggy fur. Pliny the Elder writes of magical bulls that live in India, but the statistics here are for a mundane bull. The bull does not attack without reason, but it is easily — sometimes accidentally — provoked. When a bull charges, it exerts itself to gain an Attack bonus and may simultaneously spend Confidence. In Spain, the Moorish nobles make a spectacle of fighting bulls from horseback on festival days. The sport of bull-baiting, where spectators watch a tethered bull being killed by a pack of dogs, is known throughout Mythic Europe. Bulls are somewhat clumsy fighters at first, but if they survive combat they quickly grow “wise” and become very danger''
''ous. The speed with which they learn to fight is reflected in their Affinity with Brawl.''
''Cat (Felis)''
''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –4, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +4 Size: –3 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Perfect Balance, Puissant Awareness, Sharp Ears, Nocturnal Qualities: Ambush Predator, Crafty, Good Jumper, Skilled Climber, Thick Fur Personality Traits: Curious +4, Timid +2 Reputations: Evil 2 (local) This reputation is strongest in Celtic areas, and weaker or unknown in other places. Combat: Claws: Init +3, Attack +8, Defense +10, Damage –5 Teeth: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage –6 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (jumping), Awareness 4+2 (at night), Brawl 2 (claws), Hunt 4 (mice), Stealth 4 (stalking) Natural Weapons: Claws:  Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +3, Damage +2. Teeth: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense +1, Damage +1. The cat’s dense fur gives it a Protection of +1. Appearance: In Mythic Europe, domestic cats are short-haired and tend to have grey or yellow-orange fur with darker stripes, though black, white, and calico cats are not uncommon.''
''The cat has a reputation for evil among the common folk. They accuse it of stealing the breath of babies, though only supernatural cats can do such a thing. Cats are sometimes tolerated because they keep down the population of rats, but they are not commonly kept as pets and they are often killed by peasants out of superstition or cruelty. For some reason, the cat’s bad reputation is unknown in England and it is looked upon more favorably in that land. Pliny the Elder says nothing about the cat’s reputation, noting only that the cat is the natural enemy of mice and that its eyes are so keen it can see in the dark. This description is for domestic cats. The European wildcat looks much like a large domestic cat with a thicker, shaggier coat and a bushy tail. The wildcat has a grey-brown coat with black stripes and a white underbelly. Cats generally flee from any opponent larger than themselves. If a cat has successfully crept up on its prey, it automatically wins Initiative for the first round of combat''
''and gains a +3 bonus to its Attack roll for the first round only. Cat are excellent climbers and jumpers, gaining a +3 bonus to appropriate rolls due to their Perfect Balance.''
''Falcon (Falco)''
''Characteristics: Cun –1, Per +3, Pre –1, Com 0, Str –6, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +6 Size: –3 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Ferocity (swooping attack), Keen Vision, Fragile Constitution Qualities: Accomplished Flier, Fast Flier, Keen Eyesight, Pursuit Predator, Extra Natural Weapons Personality Traits: Fierce +3 Reputations: None Combat: Talons: Init +5, Attack +6, Defense +12, Damage –4 Beak: Init +6, Atk +6, Defense +9, Damage –5 Soak: -2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (swift flight), Awareness 4 (spotting prey), Brawl 2 (talons), Hunt 4 (game birds), Survival 3 (cold climates) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a falcon’s talons are Init –1, Atk +2, Def +3, Dam +2. The statistics for its beak are Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Appearance: These statistics are for a gyrfalcon, the largest and most prized of falcons. Its wingspan can exceed four feet. It has a short, hooked beak and dark eyes. Its plumage may be white, grey, or dark brown and has a banded pattern.''
''The falcon is among the swiftest of birds and hunts on the wing, overtaking its prey in flight. Nobles use falcons to hunt game birds such as partridge. In the wild, the gyrfalcon can kill prey as large as a goose, and usually hunts birds and small rodents. It lives in cold northern lands including Scandinavia, Iceland, and Russia. Other, smaller species of falcon are Size –4. All falcons are fast fliers and gain a +3 bonus to rolls involving speed.''
''Horse, Courser (Equus)''
''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –4, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex –2, Qik +2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Fear (loud noises), LongWinded, Improved Characteristics, Noncombatant''
''Qualities: Domesticated, Fast Runner, Good Jumper, Herd Animal, Imposing Appearance, Tireless Personality Traits: Skittish +3, Brave –2 Reputations: None Combat: Hooves: Init +4, Attack 0, Defense +4, Damage +5 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (16– 21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (long-distance running), Awareness 3 (noises) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a courser’s kick are Init +2, Atk +2, Def +2, Dam +1. Appearance: The courser is a swift horse belonging to a mid-sized, athletic breed like the Andalusian. The Andalusian stallion is tall and strong, weighing about 80 stone (1120 pounds) and standing 15 hands (60 inches) high. It has a gracefully curving neck, a broad chest, straight back, and a flowing mane and tail. Its coat may be grey, black, chestnut, or roan.''
''The courser is a swift horse used by knights and nobles for hunting, traveling, and carrying important messages. The courser is not trained for battle and panics relatively easily; the statistics for its kick are given in case a character is unlucky enough to be next to a panic-stricken horse. A light horse trained for battle is called a charger. To create a charger, replace the courser’s Noncombatant Flaw with Proud (minor), change the Brave Personality Trait to zero, and give the animal a Brawl skill of 2 (hooves). Another kind of light horse is the the palfrey, which is a riding horse chosen for its gentle gait and often ridden by inexperienced riders or by ladies. To convert a courser to a palfrey, reduce Quickness by two points and increase Dexterity by the same amount. Palfreys have the Noncombatant Flaw. Any light horse – courser, charger, or palfrey – gets a +3 to rolls involving running or jumping.''
''Horse, Destrier (Equus)''
''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –4, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Ferocity (when ridden in battle), Improved Characteristics, LongWinded, Proud (minor) Qualities: Domesticated, Fast Runner, Herd Animal, Imposing Appearance, Tireless Personality Traits: Loyal +2, Brave +1''
''Reputations: Aggressive (local) 1 Combat: Hooves: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +7 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17– 24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (balancing), Brawl 3 (hooves) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a destrier’s kick are Init +2, Atk +2, Def +2, Dam +1. Appearance: The destrier is a heavy war horse. One breed used as destriers is the Percheron, a huge horse weighing over 140 stone (1960 pounds) and standing over 16 hands (64 inches) high at the withers. It has a heavy, slightly curved neck, a broad and deep chest, and powerful, stocky legs. Its coat is either grey or black in color.''
''The destrier, or heavy war horse, has been bred in Mythic Europe since at least the time of Charles Martel (8th century A.D.). Some of the large horse breeds in Mythic Europe are the Percheron, the Belgian, and the Friesian. These horses are used mainly for battle; farm work is done using oxen. The destrier is almost always a stallion. It is highly trained so it will charge without fear when its rider commands. When pressed into melee, it can rear on its hind legs and lash out with its forehooves. Though huge, the destrier is agile and can balance on its hind legs for several combat rounds without difficulty. It is trained to fight independently of its rider, so it can help defend him if he should be dismounted or badly wounded. Like all horses, the destrier is a fast runner and gains a +3 bonus to rolls involving speed. It is too heavy to be much of a jumper.''
''Hound (Canis)''
''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +2, Pre –4, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Long-Winded, Sharp Ears, Reckless Qualities: Domesticated, Keen Sense of Smell, Pack Animal, Pursuit Predator, Vocal Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Reckless +3, Brave +2 Reputations: Loyal 2 (local) Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (distance running), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Brawl 3 (bite), Hunt 4 (track by scent) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a dog’s bite are Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Appearance:  These statistics are for a large hound such as the bloodhound. The bloodhound stands a little over two feet at the shoulder and weighs up to nine stone (126 pounds). It has large jowls, dangling ears, and a heavy tail. Its coat is short and may be tan, red, or liver in color.''
''There are many breeds of dogs in Mythic Europe, many of them similar to breeds that exist in our world (though they may be called by different names). The largest dogs are used for guarding livestock or hunting dangerous beasts like wolves, bears, and wild boars. They include the breeds like the bloodhound, elkhound, Rottweiler, mastiff, and great Dane. Smaller hounds, such as the greyhound, Basset hound, and Dalmatian, are Size –1 and are often used to hunt deer, fox, and small game. Medium-sized dogs (Size – 2) include spaniels, used to chase small game and to flush game birds for falconers; terriers, which hunt badgers, stoats, and rats; and the Welsh corgi, a small cattle-herding dog. The smallest dogs (Size –3) include lap-dogs, small terriers bred for vermin control, and the tiny Italian greyhound. Several breeds that are popular in the real world, such as the German shepherd and most retrievers, did not exist in the middle ages. These statistics are for the bloodhound, and the Characteristics of other breeds may be different. All dogs have a good sense of smell, and the bloodhound’s sense is so keen it gets a +3 bonus to all related rolls. Dogs also get a +3 to endurance-related rolls due to their LongWinded Virtue. A pack of dogs may fight as a trained group under the leadership of a human Master of the Pack. Use the Master’s Animal Handling score instead of his Leadership score to determine how many dogs he can command at a time.''
''Lion (Leo)''
''Characteristics: Cun +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Ferocity (self-defense), Improved Characteristics (x2), Puissant Brawl, Self-Confident, Tough, Proud, Weakness (submission)''
''Qualities: Aggressive, Ambush Predator, Crafty, Good Jumper, Hardy, Imposing Appearance, Large Claws, Large Teeth, Tough Hide, Vocal Personality Traits: Brave +5, Fierce +5 Reputations: Fierce (local) 4 Combat: Claws: Init +1, Attack +15, Defense +12, Damage +10 Bite: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +9 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15– 21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (pouncing), Awareness 2 (smell), Brawl 5+2 (claws), Hunt 4 (deer), Stealth 4 (stalking), Survival 5 (arid climates) Natural Weapons: Large claws: Init 0, Attack +5, Defense +3, Damage +4; Large teeth: Init 0, Attack +4, Defense +1, Damage +3. Its hide gives it a Protection of +2. Appearance: The lion is a legendary beast more often depicted in artwork than encountered in the flesh. It can weigh up to 35 stone (490 pounds) and have a body length of over ten feet. It has a short, broad muzzle with powerful jaws and teeth. Its coat is tawny and the male lion has a dark, shaggy mane. The fearsome roar of the lion can be heard from a great distance.''
''Pliny the Elder writes that, during his time, lions were found in Europe only between the rivers Achelous and Mestus (in Greece), and that they also inhabited Syria and North Africa. The European lion was extinct before the middle ages in historical Europe, but might have survived in Mythic Europe. Pliny writes that there are two kinds of lions: those with long manes, which are bold; and those with curly manes, which are timid. These statistics are for the bold variety. Pliny also notes that the lion will not attack a man who lies prostrate before it. The lion can make impressive leaps and gets +3 to jump-related rolls. It can easily leap high enough to attack a man on horseback.''
''Stag (Cervus)''
''Characteristics: Cun –2, Per +2, Pre 0, Com –5, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Higher Purpose (protect the herd) Qualities: Defensive Fighter,  Extra Natural Weapons, Large Antlers, Fast Runner, Good Jumper, Sharp Ears Personality Traits: Brave +1''
''Reputations: Noble (local) 2 Combat: Antlers: Init +4, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +5 Hooves: Init +4, Attack +6, Defense +8, Damage +3 Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15– 21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 4 (sprinting), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 4 (dodge), Survival 3 (woodlands) Natural Weapons: During the autumn and winter, a stag has antlers with the following weapon statistics: Init +2, Atk +3, Def +2, Dam +3. In spring, it sheds its antlers and must fight with its hooves until the following autumn: Init +2, Atk +2, Def +2, Dam +1. Appearance: These statistics are for the red deer, one of the largest deer in Mythic Europe. Adult males average 40 to 50 stone in weight (560 to 700 pounds) depending on the richness of the available food supply, and may be up to 15 hands high — as tall as some horses, but more lightly built. The red deer’s coat is reddish-brown in winter and tan in summer, with a lighter rump and underbelly. Stags have a shaggy mane of dark fur and an impressive rack of antlers over four feet across from tip to tip. They make a deep, bellowing roar during the autumn mating season.''
''The red deer lives in open woodlands, moors, and grasslands throughout Mythic Europe. It avoids dense, tangled forests but can be found in alpine forests and meadows. The species is called “elk” in North America. The size of the red deer varies from +1 where grazing is poor to +2 where the grass is rich and plentiful. Does are smaller than stags and lack antlers. The red deer is a favorite quarry of hunters. In some places, only nobles are allowed to hunt it. The stag usually flees from combat, trying to draw enemies away from its herd, but it can fight if it must. All deer gain a +3 bonus to rolls involving running or jumping.''
''Wolf (Lupus)''
''Characteristics: Cun +2, Per 0, Pre –2, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: –1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics (x2), Ferocity (when hungry), Long''
''Winded, Sharp Ears, Compulsion (killing), Infamous Qualities: Aggressive, Hardy, Keen Sense of Smell, Pack Animal/Pack Leader, Pursuit Predator, Sharp Ears, Thick Fur, Vocal Personality Traits: Brave +3, Cowardly +3 Reputations: Bloodthirsty (local) 4 Combat: Teeth: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage 0 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16) Abilities: Athletics 5 (distance running), Awareness 3 (smell), Brawl 5 (teeth), Hunt 4 (track by smell), Survival 3 (winter) Natural Weapons: Teeth: Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Its thick fur gives it a Protection of +1. Appearance: The wolf has erect, triangular ears, a narrow muzzle, and a coat of shaggy fur. Its eyes are usually yellowish and have a steady, unsettling gaze. Its color may be any shade from pale grey through dark brown, often with lighter patches on the sides of the face and around the eyes. The wolf can bark, but its better-known sound is its eerie, piercing howl.''
''The wolf is found throughout Mythic Europe, the Middle East, and North Africa. According to Pliny the Elder, the wolves of northern regions are fierce while those of Africa and Egypt are weak Wolves are greatly feared by commoners. They are hunted with large hounds because they kill livestock. In some lands, there is a bounty on their hides. Many tales attribute supernatural powers to wolves, but most wolves are mundane and have no powers at all. The Flaws above reflect the medieval perception of the wolf as a wanton, bloodthirsty killer. Individual wolves, such as the Animal Companion of a player character, may substitute another Personality Flaw in place of the Compulsion. A wolf Animal Companion that goes around killing livestock could be disruptive to stories. Regardless of such a wolf’s actual personality, mundanes are likely to treat it with a great deal of fear and suspicion. The leader of a wolf pack has the additional Ability, Leadership 5 (wolves). A pack may fight as a trained group when its leader is present. A wolf pack is extremely dangerous.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
