''And when We said to the angels: Make obeisance to Adam; they made obeisance, but Iblis refused. He said: Why should I make obeisance to him whom You have created of dust?''
''— Qur’an 17:61''
''The figure of the Devil — the personification of evil — is different according to which teachings are followed. To the Jews, he is a servant of God; to the Christians, he rebelled against God before the creation of Adam; whereas Islam teaches that the Devil rebelled because of the creation of Man. The discussion that follows considers the place of the Devil in all three of these Divine religions, although the concepts are presented as they are commonly understood by the followers of these religions, not necessarily the strict theological viewpoint.''

==The Jewish Devil==

''I said: You are gods; and all of you sons of the Most High; Nevertheless you shall die like men, And fall like one of the Princes.''
''— Psalm 82:6–7''
''In Rabbinical Judaism, angels have no evil inclination (yezer ra), they have only one heart (unlike man, who has a good and an evil yezer). They have an absolute incapacity for sin, and therefore it is impossible that the Devil could have once been an angel who rebelled against God and became the embodiment of evil. Not all the angels agreed with God’s plans''
''to create man when he consulted with them, knowing that people would cause war, tell lies, and commit evil, and Satan was the chief of those who protested. He was therefore given the responsibility to accuse man, to doubt his piety, and to put obstacles in his way so that he may fall and sin. He was permitted to act this way by God; Satan is a necessary part of the heavenly hierarchy, and is but a tool of God. He has no private reasons for tempting man, nor special joy in causing his fall. God desires man to be perfect, and Satan accuses and tests man in order that his sincerity may be proved or his fickleness punished. Satan (more properly ha-Satan) means “The Adversary,” for it is his duty to oppose man, and he rules a group of angels called the satanim to assist him in this. It was Satan who tried to kill Moses (Exodus 4:24) and who hardened Pharaoh’s heart against him. He also helped the Egyptian sorcerers in their magical contest against Moses and Aaron. Similar incidents litter the Old Testament. For more information on the possibility of Satan and the satanim as agents of Divine justice rather than personifications of evil, see Chapter 4: The Infernal Legions, Avengers of Evil.''
''However, the Jews have a second figure in their demonological (rather than Biblical) teachings, who is often conflated with Satan. Sammael, the Poison Angel, is the personification of evil, the inevitable product of the sitra achra (see Chapter 1: The Infernal Realm, The Other Side). He has been equated with the yezer ra itself, that inclination towards wickedness which resides in every human. Sammael was weak at the beginning of Creation, so full was it of God’s Light, but sent the serpent into the Garden of Eden to tempt Eve, and from this first sin, his power flourished on the''
''earth. Sammael is the true Devil as he is understood by the Christians, and the fact that they have adopted the name of Satan for their archfiend has contributed to the confusion of the two.''
''When Adam and Eve were cast out from the Garden of Eden, they wandered in the wilderness. During this exile (which lasted 130 years), Lilith came to Adam and lived as his concubine. According to Jewish lore, Lilith had been created by God as Adam’s first wife, formed of clay in the same way as Adam himself. Lilith quarreled with Adam, refusing to be submissive to his will, for she was created as his equal. She fled from Eden and became one of the wives of Sammael. When Eden was lost to Adam, Lilith returned to him and she bore him every day one hundred children, all demons born of their adultery. According to the Jews, this is the origin of demons, born of the sitra achra when man sins. They are not fallen angels, for angels cannot rebel against God.''

==The Christian Devil==

''So the huge dragon was thrown down — that old serpent called the Devil and Satan, the seducer of the whole world — thrown down to earth, and his angels thrown down along with him.''
''— Revelation 12:7–9''
''To Christians, Satan, rather than being the adversary of man,  is the adversary of God, and is the name of the chief of the demons and Prince of Hell. Satan is also''

=The Devil and the Origin=


==of Demons==

''called Lucifer (“The Light-giver”), a testament to his origin as an angel of light.''
''When Satan was numbered among the angels at the beginning of time, he was both excellent in beauty and great in office. However, he fell in love with himself and aspired to take the place of the Creator, committing the first sin, that of pride. Lucifer succeeded in getting a third of the heavenly host to side with him, but failed in his efforts to stir up the others to take part in his attempt to dethrone the Most High. God, knowing of Satan’s plan, hurled him and his band from their place in heaven into the bottomless pit. This act simultaneously punished the rebel angels by removing them from the presence of God, and admonished the other angels. The theologian Aelfric propounded in his 11th century De Initio Creaturae that Lucifer’s rebellion left a gap in the heavenly host, for he had taken his whole angelic choir with him, leaving only nine choirs instead of a perfect ten. This gap threatened the harmony of creation, so God created man as a substitute, so that the saints, coming forth from man, might take the place of the apostates in Heaven.''
''Lucifer, transformed into Satan through his rebellion, transferred his hatred for God to man, who had been created in the likeness of the one he really despised. He swore to avenge himself, and did so by causing Eve, and thus Adam, to eat of the forbidden fruit. They were thus driven from paradise and robbed of their divine glory, allowing death to enter the world. Satan was punished again for this act; God turned the bottomless pit into the torment of Hell, making it a prison of pain for Satan and his demons. However, Satan had achieved his goal — mankind had fallen from God’s grace through his original sin, and thus fell under Satan’s power all his life. This miserable state of affairs is only made worse by the unnatural vices of the demons, which sink the human race into a bottomless mire of evil.''

==The Islamic Devil==

''Say: I seek refuge in the Lord of men, The King of men, The God of men, From the evil of the whisperings of the slinking''
''(Shaitan), Who whispers into the hearts of men, From among the jinn and the men.''
''— Qur’an 114:1–6''
''According to Islamic cosmology, the jinn were the first beings to inhabit the earth. They were a race forged by God from the smokeless fire, and they dwelt on earth for eons in peace and tranquility, obedient and doing the bidding of the Lord. But a day came when wickedness and evil deeds increased amongst the jinn, and they ignored the commandments of the Creator and the earth was filled with their iniquity. The Creator decided to put an end to their reign, and sent down a host of angels who waged a terrible war against the jinn. These angels were led by Iblis, who had remained loyal to God although he was also one of the jinn. Iblis was among the most devoted and knowledgeable of God’s servants, and he fought the jinn until''
''he drove them into the islands of the sea and the sides of the mountains.''
''In gratitude for this deed, Iblis was made lord of the earth, and he became the chief of the angels who now inhabited the world. He became puffed up with pride and deceived himself about his own achievements. However, the reign of Iblis over the world was to end, for God decided to create man to inhabit and people the earth. The angels who were its masters refused to leave it, for they were very content there. They tried to convince the Lord to leave them there to forever praise the name of God, rather than to populate the earth with the sons of man who would fall into the same corruption as the jinn. Nevertheless, God was not swayed by their pleas, and created Adam. He commanded the angels to worship and obey Adam, who had been made in his likeness and filled with his power. Iblis, so full of his pride, refused. Why should he yield his abode to this upstart made of clay, when he was a mighty spirit of the smokeless fire? His pride and envy of Adam were the causes of his fall, and he was burned by God, made ugly, and stripped of what had been granted him, cursed and driven from Heaven to the fire of Hell. Those who followed Iblis suffered the same fate. Iblis, now called Shaitan, swore an oath of revenge, to punish to sons of man who had laid him so low, and he has been doing this ever since.''
''Iblis took four wives, the demons of prostitution named Lilith, Eisheth Zenunim, Naameh, and Agrat bat Mahlat. By these terrible she-demons he had five sons who are the scourge of mankind — Dasim (with dominion over discord), Al-Awar (debauchery), Sut (lies), Tir (fatal accidents) and Zalambur (mercantile dishonesty).''

==The Fall of the Angels==

''Legends from all three major Divine religions tell of the wickedness of the humans who immediately predated the''
''Flood, and of how they transgressed the commands of the Creator by sinning and worshiping idols. The Qur’an and the Book of Enoch tell similar stories, of angels who came to the Lord and begged the Creator for the earth to be given to them to inhabit and cultivate, citing the corruption of mankind as proof of their case. The Creator told them that if they had taken man’s place in the world they would have been worse even than man; swayed by the passion and lure of materiality, the angels would have committed worse sins than man ever did. Despite this warning, the angels asked for sanction to''
''dwell amongst mankind and restore them to the worship of God, and this permission was reluctantly given.''
''However, God’s predictions were as infallible as ever. Semyaza and Azael (or Harut and Marut, in the Qur’an) descended upon the earth with a host called the Watchers (also called Grigori). They mixed with the children of men, and soon sinned and transgressed through temptation by the Devil. They taught mankind the practices of sorcery and warfare, and took mortal wives to father children who were giants, 300 cubits high. When the sinning angels tried to return to Heaven''
''they were refused admission by five archangels (Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, and Suryal) and rebuffed by the Divine light, falling down to earth to became ministers and satellites of the Devil. The children who were born of mortal mothers and angelic fathers were of neither race, but had an intermediate nature, and were called the Nephilim (See Realms of Power: The Divine, Chapter 3: Blessed by God). They were not received by man, just as their parents had been refused admission into Heaven, and became the terrestrial demons upon their death (see Chapter 4: The Infernal Legions).''
''At the head of each of the nine orders of demons is an archdemon who directs all who are under him; if any can be considered kings of Hell, it is they. Known to the rabbis as the Maskim, these nine demons, chiefs among the rebellion against God, are seen as the ruling council — the Electors of Hell — who advise the Devil on his works. No game statistics for the Maskim are provided because they do not involve themselves with individual damnation of souls, but instead co-ordinate the execution of grander schemes through the actions of their subordinates. Suffice to say that each has an Infernal Might of 75. These fallen angels transcend the nine orders of demons, although they share characteristics with the demons they rule. The Maskim are: Beelzebub is the Chief of the False Gods. According to Psellos, as an angel he was called Beelzebul (Lord of Heaven), but after the fall he became Beelzebub (Lord of the Dunghill), and he is often depicted as a monstrous fly. Beelzebub is named next to the Devil in terms of power and crime. In the Gospel of Nicodemus, Christ gives Beelzebub dominion in the underworld, during his three days there, in gratitude for permitting Christ, over Satan’s objections, to take Adam and the other imprisoned saints to Heaven.''
''Pytho is Prince of the Spirits of Deceit, and has lied to prophets and oracles throughout the ages. Pytho is believed to have been the serpent in the Garden of Eden, through whom the Devil corrupted Eve. Belial, Commander of the Vessels of Iniquity, also called Beliar, is mentioned in Deuteronomy, Judges, and I Samuel as the spirit of hatred, deception, and error, and is accorded the title of Prince of Darkness. He serves as Hell’s prelate, and has been equated with the Antichrist, and linked with the horrors of Sodom and Gomorrah. Dumah, Chief of the Avengers of Evil, is called the Angel of the Silence of Death, and is chief of the myriads of demons in Hell who are charged with the punishment of the souls of sinners. He is reported to be a thousand-eyed angel armed with a fiery rod.''
''Semyaza is Chief of the Deluders, and he is foremost among the unholy Grigori, corrupted by the temptations of flesh. He and his cohorts were responsible for teaching mankind the secrets of Infernal Powers, and he goes by a number of other names, such as Azazael and Uzza.''
''Meririm, Prince of the Powers of the Air, the lord of thunder and lightning in hell, is called the meridian devil, represented by the boiling air of the equator.''
''Abaddon, of the Furies, is the “angel of the abyss” named in the Book of Revelations (chapter 9, verse 10); at the sounding of the fifth trump he will emerge from Hell and destroy mankind. The Greeks knew him as Apollyon, which like Abaddon, means “The Destroyer.” Astaroth, Prince of the Accusing Angels, was once a seraph, and is now a mighty lord of Hell and one of the few who has allowed himself to be invoked on Earth. He manifests as a beautiful angel astride a dragon, carrying a viper in is right hand. He is the Prime Minister of Hell, and is the co-signatory of all diabolic pacts. Ashmodai and Lilith, the King and Queen of Tempters, share the leadership of the ninth order. Lilith was the concubine of Adam after his expulsion from Eden, and through him she bore the hordes of tempters and evil spirits. Lilith is depicted as a naked woman whose body terminates with a serpent’s tail, and is the enemy of infants. Ashmodai (also called Asmodeus) was the eldest of the children of Adam and Lilith, and since then has risen to be leader of the order to which he was born. He takes a form similar to his mother-wife, although winged and terrible in aspect.''

==The Electors of Hell==

===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
