
===Architectus, Demon Builder===

''Order: Master of the Furies Infernal Might: 25 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre 0,''
''Com 0, Str +2, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +5 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 2 (6 points) Virtues and Flaws: Berserk, Lesser''
''Malediction (discomfort from sunlight) Personality Traits: Wrathful +4, Self-con''
''trolled +2 Reputations: Easily Tricked 3 (local) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Whip: Init +7, Attack +10, Defense +12,''
''Damage +14 Claws: Init +9, Attack +7, Defense +9,''
''Damage +4 Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5''
''(13–18), Incapacitated (19–24) Abilities: Brawl 1 (claws), Charm 6 (those''
''he intends to trick into deals), Craft 2 (masonry), Guile 3 (daughters), Infernal Lore 6 (great physical works of demons), Intrigue 5 (geopolitics), Leadership 3 (laborers), Profession 9 (architecture), Single Weapon 7 (mace and chain — weighted whip) Powers: Command the Four Hosts of Builders, 10 points,''
''Init 0, Vim: This demon can command a swarm of lesser creatures. These are usually ordered to seek out materials and then construct buildings under his direction, but they may be given many other tasks. These tiny demons work with extraordinary speed, and are''
''able to create complicated structures within a single evening. Architectus cracks his whip to the four directions to summon his swarms, but this is an affectation rather than a requirement — the whip is merely a prop. Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus:''
''Architectus can assume the shape of any human being. Eyes of Stone Demons, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Auram: Architectus’s minor demons act as spies and messengers. Flocks of tiny demons, visible as decorative gargoyles to Second Sight, nest in his constructions and monitor the surrounding area, informing him of opportunities for mischief. Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Vainglory. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Waxing Tide of Humors, 3 points, Init +2,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Berserker Rage, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Corpus: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Weakness: Architectus must always fulfill''
''any agreement he makes. Vis: 5 pawns of Rego, in whip hand Appearance: Architectus’s natural form is''
''a large, bat-winged man, with goat’s horns, hooves, and beard. In this form he carries an enormous, oily whip, which he cracks thunderously toward each of the four directions before commanding his host of servants. The whip’s four thongs end in flaming weights. His most commonly used''
''human shape looks like a powerfully built man. He uses this form when making initial contact with his victims. In this form, he has sometimes claimed that his family comes from Sicily, and one entrance to the regio in which he makes is home is found there.''
''Architectus commands a host of lesser creatures, and uses them to build roads and bridges overnight. Architectus often builds a structure after making a deal with a mortal. As an example, he often agrees that in exchange for his labor, he will take the first being to cross a bridge. He is usually cheated of his fee by mortal cunning. Architectus welcomes this process, for over time, each bridge or road harms those who live near it. Villages previously separated by ravines are able to raid each other’s flocks. Traders develop routes through the area, and bring wealth and vice. Generals use them to move their armies, and their foraging soldiers ravage the countryside. This harm usually consumes the person who made the initial agreement with Architectus. Myths about how Architectus was tricked into building a road or bridge never include this detail.''
''Architectus seems, to his victims, to be a Fury. He has the ability to halt his Berserker Rage at will, and his preference for schemes requiring decades to develop makes him difficult to classify. He often pretends that daylight, or the cock’s crow, repels him, but they do not. He finds sunlight unpleasant, but can tolerate it if necessary. His servants find sunlight painful, but are more frightened of his whip than the sun, and so can be forced to work during the day in exceptional cases.''

=Demons as Destroyers=


==The Infernal==


===Bael, Destroyer of Nations===

''Order: Lord of the Furies Infernal Might: 30 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre –6,''
''Com +2, Str +6, Sta +1, Dex +4, Qik –2 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Berserk Personality Traits: Rebellious +6, Wrathful +4, Self–Controlled –6 Reputations: Destroyer of Nations 5''
''(Infernal) Hierarchy: 5 Combat: Claws: Init –2, Attack +15, Defense +4,''
''Damage +10 Long sword*: Init 0, Attack +14, Defense''
''+5, Damage +12 *when using his Form of Man Power Soak: +9 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5''
''(15–21), Incapacitated (22–28) Abilities: Brawl 5 (claws), Folk Ken 6''
''(nobility), Leadership 9 (slaves), Profession: Battle Tactician 5 (assault), Single Weapon 5 (long sword) Powers: Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: Bael''
''can assume the shape of any human being. He often takes the form of a military adviser to the Crown. Seething Resentment, 2 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: Bael can magnify any feelings of annoyance, or resentment towards a particular person, into an all-consuming hatred which threatens to boil over in a fit of rage. The victim must make appropriate Personality Trait rolls against an Ease Factor of 9 to avoid lashing out at the object of his hatred, whether this is a physical attack, a vicious verbal assault, or even a declaration of war. The effect lasts until the victim succumbs to the passions, although the hatred takes an hour to dissipate. If the victim manages to control his hatred until Sunday morning, the hatred vanishes. Worm of the Mind, 5 points, Init 0, Mentem:''
''Bael’s toad head can spit a venom into the mouth of a sleeping victim, which''
''burrows into his mind and destroys all volition. The victim becomes a mindless automaton, obedient to Bael’s mental commands, but unable to otherwise think for himself. Bael can control a number of these slaves at any one time equal to his Leadership Ability, but can create many more than this if he wishes. Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Resentment. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Waxing Tide of Humors, 3 points, Init +2,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies.''
''Berserker Rage, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Corpus: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Weakness: Vulnerability (stale bread) Vis: 2 pawns of Animal, in the cat’s head;''
''2 pawns of Vim, in the human head; 2 pawns of Perdo, in the toad’s head. Appearance: Bael appears as a creature''
''who has three heads, those of a toad, a cat, and a man. His body is like that of a lion, but hairless and tailless.''
''Bael is one of the most terrible of his demonic order. He claims the title of King, which is clearly ironic, for he seeks to provoke wars between nations and''

[|
''Order: Aerial Powers In ancient times, the aethnici dwelt within the flames of the sacrificial fires; now any fire in profane regions, especially Infernal auras, may contain them. They naturally appear as vaguely human-shaped figures made purely out of flames, but often take the form of serpents or lizards. They cause mischief such as causing sparks to fly from a hearth and ignite nearby materials, although some have greater ambitions and promote the kinds of fires that can engulf entire towns. Infernal Might: 15 (Ignem)''
''Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity to''
''Flame and Heat Weakness: Vulnerability (water) Powers: Form of the Serpent, 1 point, Init 0, Animal:''
''The aethnicus can adopt the form of any snake, lizard, or salamander. This Power lasts until the demon decides to turn back. Elemental Control of Fire, variable points,''
''Init +1, Ignem: As the Power common to all Aerial Powers. The aethnici prefer effects such as Hornet Fire and Tremulous Vault of the Torch’s Flame.''

==Aethnici==

''Architectus raises children, partially as a hobby, but also as an extension of his grand schemes. He finds an orphaned girl with a strong Supernatural Talent and raises her as his own daughter in an Infernal regio. The girl always meets a heroic boy from the mundane world, always steals the whip that she thinks commands Architectus’s horde of demons, and always arranges for her swain to escape with her. She uses the horde, controlled by the whip, to build a great castle and fill its treasury with gold stolen as a dowry, and then tricks her wrathful father into acquiescence.''
''Architectus’s “daughters” always seem to attract heroes from small domains assailed by a slightly more powerful neighbor. The addition of a new fortress, and a pile of gold, always extends the war, by giving the advantage to the girl’s adopted nation, but only to a slight degree. The castles and palaces built by Architectus’s daughters are focuses of tragedy, and he maintains an interest in his grandchildren, since his daughters often pass on a few of their tricks to their descendants. This makes them vulnerable to further corruption.''

==Story Seed: The Demon’s Daughter==


|]

==Realms of Power==

''destroy kingdoms. Under his direction, lesser demons cause petty troubles to flare up between adjoining territories, while Bael lurks in the court of one or other of the rulers and uses his power to prompt his victim into rash actions. He prefers not to turn his royal targets into slaves (see his Worm of the Mind Power), for by bypassing free will, it wins no souls for Hell.''

===Fimus, Warrior Demon===

''Order: Aerial Powers Infernal Might: 10 (Terram) Characteristics: Int –2, Per +2, Pre –2, Com''
''+2, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik –4 Size: +2 Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Great Weapon;''
''Poor Eyesight, Simple-Minded Personality Traits: Untamable +5, Intimidating +3 Reputations: Champion of Hell 1''
''(Infernal)''
''Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Cudgel: Init –3, Attack +13, Defense +6,''
''Damage +11 Fist: Init –4, Attack +6, Defense +2,''
''Damage +4 Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5''
''(15–21), Incapacitated (22–28) Abilities: Athletics 3 (pursuit), Awareness''
''4 (foes), Brawl 5 (fist), Great Weapon 6+2 (cudgel) Powers: Elemental Control of Earth, variable points, Init''
''+1, Terram: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Aerial Powers. He prefers effects such as Wielding the Invisible Sling and Rusted Decay of Ten-Score Years. Born of Rock, 0 points, Init 0, Terram: The''
''body of this demon is made from solid rock. This makes it exceedingly heavy and almost impossible to harm by mundane means.''
''Death’s Vengeance, 0 points, Init +10,''
''Terram: Upon death, this demon’s body explodes, sending shards of debris up to 20 paces in all directions. Treat this as a physical attack against all within range, which can be dodged but not otherwise defended against. The Attack Bonus is +12, and the Damage is +15. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Cowardice. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Recalcitrance, 0 points, Init constant, Vim:.''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Aerial Powers. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (cinnamon) Vis: 2 pawns of Terram, in eye Appearance: Fimus appears as an immense''
''man apparently put together out of boulders. He has but one eye, in the center of his forehead. He carries an immense cudgel made out of a stalagmite.''
''Fimus is but one of many brotherdemons (all with the same name); their mother produces more every time she evacuates her bowels. He and his brothers are popular footsoldiers and shock troops used by other demons, because they are effective warriors, and too stupid to effectively entertain rebellious thoughts. Each of the brothers has a different Abhorrent''

[|
''Order: Furies These horrible demons are the elite force of the Furies, under the direct command of its chief, Abaddon. These demons will burst forth from Hell when the Fifth Trump is sounded at the End of Days, and consume all who remain on the earth (as detailed in the Book of Revelation). Until that day, these demons make occasional forays onto earth at the behest of their lord or at the request of an Infernal wizard who wishes to wreak destruction on his enemies.''
''These demons appear like horses, but with the faces of men. They are crowned with gold, have long hair, and the teeth of a lion. They sport a pair of bat-wings, and the tail of a scorpion. They are often mistaken for manticores by those who have studied bestiaries, however, manticores are not demons. Infernal Might: 20 (Animal) Weakness: Abhorrent Material (the''
''sound of a brass horn) Powers: Inescapable, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: If''
''provided with the beginning of''
''a trail of footprints, or an Arcane Connection to some target, these demons can unfailingly track down any prey. The tracker cannot be fooled by typical ruses, such as crossing water or doubling back, but should the pursued enter a Church, come into the presence of a relic with at least 2 Faith Points, or enter a magical ward which exceeds its Might (such as the Aegis of the Hearth or Circular Ward against Demons), then the demon loses track of its prey until he emerges. Scorpion’s Tail, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus:''
''Their tails can strike at any opponent once per combat round, in addition to any other attack. The tail has the weapon statistics of a long spear, and if it hits it injects venom, even if all weapon damage is soaked. The venom has an Ease Factor of 9 to resist, and inflicts a Medium Wound. This venom also dissolves metal, stone, or weaker material as if the item had been struck by Obliteration of the Metallic Barrier.''

|]
''Demons of the Fifth Trump Story Seed: Demons of the Fifth Trump''

[|
''A group of Luciferans (see Chapter 13: Infernal Traditions) have summoned some of these demons to confirm their own interpretations of the Last Days. However, they had not counted on the demons being so powerful, were unable to bind them, and were eaten. The demons still prowl the region, spreading fear and confusion. A priest has recognized their description from the Book of Revelations, and has convinced his flock that the Fifth Trump has already been sounded.''

|]

==The Infernal==

''Material, depending upon what their mother had been eating prior to their birth.''

===Gavi, a Dibbuk===

''Order: Furies (Dibbukim) Infernal Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0,''
''Com +1, Str n/a, Sta n/a, Dex n/a, Qik n/a Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Berserk Personality Traits: Profigate with Money''
''+8, Wrathful +4, Frantic +3, SelfControlled –6 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 0 Abilities: Awareness 3 (sinners), Bargain''
''3 (possessions), Profession: Merchant 5 (wool) Powers: Possession, variable points, Init +2, Mentem:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Generosity. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Waxing Tide of Humors, 3 points, Init +2,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Berserker Rage, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Corpus: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Furies. Weakness: Compulsiveness Vis: None — Gavi has no ability to form''
''a body, thus cannot leave behind a corpse. Appearance: None; if seen with Second''
''Sight, Gavi appears as he did in life, a wealthy Jew, but with feral eyes containing a glint of madness. His hands are hooked into claws and his mouth contains sharp, dagger-like teeth.''
''Gavi was a greedy merchant in life who went to Hell for his sins. Desperate to rid himself of the sin of greed, thinking this will allow him to enter Heaven, Gavi forces his victims to carry out mad acts of charity. He gives all their money away, forces others to take their greatest possessions, and even force-feeds beggars.''

[|
''Order: Furies A dibbuk is a disembodied human spirit from Jewish lore, that, because of former sins, wanders restlessly until it finds a haven in the body of a living person made vulnerable through sin. It can be driven out through exorcism, which causes it to leave the body by the little toe. Like other Infernal ghosts, a dibbuk has no ability to coagulate a material body, but instead must lurk about invisibly until it sees one of the living commit a sin. Dibbukim can be distinguished from the living in that they speak with''
''the voice that they had in life, and always act in an erratic manner. To those who can see a dibbuk’s discorporate form, dibbukim appear as they did in life, except that their features are infused with those of predatory animals such as wolves, lions, bears, and vultures.''
''An example of a Dibbuk is Gavi. Infernal Might: 15 (Mentem) Weakness: Compulsiveness Powers: Possession, variable points, Init +2,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers.''

==Dibbukim==

''Order: Aerial Powers In their natural form, the fictiles (singular fictilis) seem to be composed of wet clay. They are larger than a man in size, and have crudely formed limbs that are often mismatched as those of different animals. However, the fictiles are shapechangers who usually take the form of animals — particularly of domestic animals and pets — and dwell alongside man. They often remain with a family for a long period of time, subtly corrupting them in many minor ways, usually through the imposition of minor calamities. Infernal Might: 10 (Terram) Virtues and Flaws: Shapeshifter Weakness: Running''
''water Powers: Elemental Control of''
''Earth, variable points, Init +1, Terram: As the Power common to all Aerial Powers. They prefer effects such as Earth That Breaks No More and Fist of Shattering.''
''Blight the Household, 1 point, Init 0,''
''Herbam: Fictiles can cause misfortune to a family by spoiling food, rotting foundations, and even blighting crops. Each use of this Power can destroy three portions of food or an Individual amount of plant material. Alternatively, if used daily throughout the spring growing season, it can halve the productivity of a field of crops or fodder.''

==Fictiles==


|]

==Realms of Power==


===Golab, Foe of the Seraphim===

''Order: Vessels of Iniquity Infernal Might: 30 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2,''
''Com +2, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex +4, Qik 0 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Personality Traits: Depraved +6, Hateful''
''+6, Pious –6 Reputations: Foe of the Seraphim 3''
''(Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Club: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +7,''
''Damage +7 Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5''
''(13–18), Incapacitated (19–24) Abilities: Church Lore 5 (sects), Divine''
''Lore 5 (heresy), Islamic Lore 5 (sects), Jewish Lore 5 (sects), Leadership 6 (mobs), Single Weapon 6 (club), Theology 6 (errors in reasoning) Powers: Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Religious Intolerance. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Form of Wickedness, 3 points, Init 0, Mentem:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Contagious Obsession, 1 point per victim, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (blessed''
''objects) Vis: 6 pawns of Vim, in genitalia Appearance: In common with all Vessels''
''of Iniquity, his natural form is indescribable; it is hatred given solid form. Any who see it are driven to indulge in the desecration of those things they hold most sacred and spiritual. When appearing as a human, Golab takes the form of an obese member of the clergy, usually one from a group known in the region for hypocrisy or other moral failings.''
''Golab is the self-declared adversary of the seraphim. He specializes in sedition against God, which he achieves through the emotion of hatred. He delights in causing riots on holy days, causing pilgrims to stampede innocents, and inciting his victims to murder the clergy.''

===Gourmand the Sweet-toothed===

''Order: Vessel of Iniquity Infernal Might: 15 (Imaginem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre 0, Com''
''+0, Str +3, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +2 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Appears to have the''
''Obese Flaw, but does not suffer any penalties. Personality Traits: Depraved +6, Hateful''
''+6, Gluttony +3 Reputations: Spice Trader 1 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Pestle (Cudgel): Init +3, Attack +10,''
''Defense +6, Damage +10 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5''
''(13–18), Incapacitated (19–24) Abilities: Bargain 6 (spices), Craft:''
''Confectionery 5 (sugar), Great weapon 3 (cudgel), Guile 3 (merchants) Powers: Cloud of Pepper, 1 point, Init +3, Herbam:''
''This Power fills a room — or in unwalled areas, a circle 100 yards across — with a choking cloud of pepper dust, for one round. This irritates the lungs and eyes of humans, but does not cause any lasting damage. Characters within the cloud must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Successful characters are unaffected by the dust. Those with lower totals are blinded for a round, and suffer a Fatigue level of choking damage. They may make a fresh Stamina roll each round, with the Ease Factor being reduced by one for each round since they were affected by the pepper. The pepper does not remove more than one Fatigue level form any''
''victim. Gourmand uses this Power to inconvenience foes, either to make combat easier or to allow him to flee. Conjure Spices, 1 point, Init –3, Herbam:''
''Gourmand may summon a measure of spices, of any type, from another place so swiftly it appears he has created it. Most spices are extremely valuable, and are given to his servants as rewards. Gourmand can also summon herbs and plant-based poisons using this Power. Hide Flavor, 5 points, Init –3, Imaginem: The''
''demon may alter the flavor and texture of one handful of any substance. These substances are usually used in poisoning, since Gourmand can make ground glass taste sweet and iron filings seem soft. This Power does not affect the appearance or smell of its target, which may give alter characters an opportunity to detect the adulteration. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Craving Sweet things. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Form of Wickedness, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Contagious Obsession, 1 point per victim, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Vessels of Iniquity. Weakness: Vulnerability (salt) — He finds''
''this extremely embarrassing. Vis: 3 pawns of Imaginem, in the stains on''
''his clothing Appearance: Gourmand manifests the''
''human form of a fleshy man of middle age. Food of vivid colors stains his sumptuous clothes, chubby fingers, and the corners of his mouth. His smell, of rotting fruit, is transmitted to anything he touches, and does not fade until sunrise. Gourmand looks unfit and flabby, but is surprisingly swift and strong if forced to engage in combat. He uses a double-handed, basalt pestle as his preferred weapon.''
''Gourmand seeks additional power over men through their sense of taste, and their greed for valuable spices. Gourmand favors many schemes, but those most dear to him are the propagation of trade''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
