''In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth.''
''Genesis 1.1''
''The Divine Realm is a place of unending truth, incorruptible and perfect in every respect, the ﬁrst creation and the ﬁrst good. Within that splendor resides Heaven, the angels and saints and all of God’s faithful worshippers. The Divine Realm, also known as the True Empyrean, is the “ﬂame of ﬂames” out of which every divine thing has its light kindled. Separate from God, since it was created by Him, the Divine realm shares in His essence by dint of its holiness.''
''Emanating from the Divine onto and throughout the earth is the Divine aura, the sparkling light of heaven granted to the faithful. Divine auras most often manifest in the presence of a body of believers (the Dominion), or from particularly holy sites unconnected to worship (Empyreals). Divine auras are the most proliﬁc of all auras and are the aura normal people are most likely to come into contact with.''
''Although it is the most powerful aura — because it derives from sacred authority of God — the Divine aura is variable in its strength. Its mutability derives from its relationship to the faithful it is intended to nurture and protect: the more numerous or faithful the ﬂock, the more potent are its effects. It is also affected by the passage of time, waning at night time and waxing during holy days and festivals.''
''Empyreal auras often manifest as spheres, emanating from a ﬁxed point, while a Dominion aura will extend to cover the area inhabited by the faithful. No one knows for certain why they take these shapes, although erudite Hermetic scholars imagine it is because the sphere is the most perfect of forms, and that the Dominion is intended to protect God’s worshippers. When arising from an unusual source, or butting against another''
''aura, Divine auras can be odd shapes. Although the Dominion may vary in strength, this does not reﬂect a lack of power from the Divine realm, which remains at all times unaffected by its emanation upon the sub-lunar sphere.''
''The Dominion is the most common form of Divine aura, being the radiance of God’s sovereignty and protection through His followers. Islam, Judaism, and Christianity all have the Dominion, which is undifferentiated in its effect, although it caused differently by each. Heretical faiths, such as Catharism or Gnosticism, may also have a Dominion, as may other monotheistic faiths such as Mandaeanism or Zoroastrianism. Pagan faiths such as those of Imperial Rome or the barbarian pantheons of the Celts and Slavs were largely within faerie or magical auras.''
''An empyreal aura is a Divine aura that is untouched by worldly matters. It is different from the Dominion only in its source, which is usually a relic or the dwelling of a powerful divine creature.''

==Divine Auras in Play==

''To encounter a Divine aura is to brush with the divine and to partake of its holiness. There is simply no earthly experience comparable with the radiance of a Divine aura.''
''The Dominion is present amongst a group of faithful worshipers. It permeates the people of Mythic Europe, binding communities together and saturating their souls with sacred purity. The effect of the Dominion is both subtle and overwhelming, with a marked difference as one moves from a moderate Dominion to a''
''powerful one. A pilgrim standing at the threshold of a cathedral may feel a sense of awe and hope, but once he moves to stand before the altar, all sense of self is overcome by a near mystic experience of being drawn to embrace the Divine.''
''An empyreal aura is the manifestation of the Divine realm separate from worship. It is sharing in a place or thing of holiness, God’s most universal quality. Empyreal auras are mostly found at sacred sites that are not necessarily linked to''

=Heaven and Earth=

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Four Worlds==

''According to Jewish kabbalists and certain Hermetic theorists, there are four stages of emanation from the Divine realm, known from Isaiah 43:7: “All that is called in My name, for My Glory [Atzilut], I have Created it [Beriyah], I have Formed it [Yetzirah], and I have Made it [Asiyah].” As the light of God extends through creation its nature transforms, becoming the supernatural realms.''
''The highest realm is Atzilut (Emanation), the eternal and unchanging Divine realm. The next realm is Beriyah (Creation), associated by Hermetic magi with the Magical realm, the ﬁrst separation of Heaven. Standing just above the material world is Yetzirah (Formation), considered to be either Arcadia or the Invisible World of angels, ghosts, spirits, and elementals. Finally, Asiyah (Action) is the mundane world in which the world and the entire material universe exist. The Infernal realm is not a realm by itself, but rather is a further decline from the Light, a near absolute preternatural Darkness known as sitra ahra (“the other side”), which has a rival Tree grown from the husks or shells (“qlippot”) of earlier creations when Adam ate from the Tree of Knowledge.''

|}
''worship, or radiating from powerful divine creatures or saints. It is a more primordial Divine aura than the Dominion.''
''Experiencing a powerful Divine aura is a life-changing experience for faithful and sinners alike, directly touching the soul. While people are always profoundly affected by Divine auras, they are not immediately aware that they are within an aura (unless they have an appropriate Virtue). A Hermetic mage entering a powerful Dominion may slowly be aware of an ache in his hands, a shortness of breath or uncertainty over the efﬁcacy of his magical prowess. Divine auras can also inspire Personality Traits in those within them (see Blessed By God, Holy Inﬂuence for more information).''

===Mundane Reaction To the Divine===

''A pious character entering a Divine aura is ﬁlled with positive feelings directed towards God. As the aura grows in strength, these feelings can overcome the character’s sense of self. The purpose of Divine auras is to glorify God, so the emotions and spiritual sensations provoked by a Divine aura tend to be ones such as selﬂess love, awe, and wonder.''
''Most inhabitants of Mythic Europe, while not impious, have been exposed to Divine auras since they were young. Although one never becomes desensitized to the Divine, the experience may not be as profound as it is to the truly pious. Thus, a character with no signiﬁ''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''And thence those men took me and bore me up on to the sixth heaven, and there I saw seven bands of angels, very bright and very glorious, and their faces shining more than the sun’s shining, glistening, and there is no difference in their faces, or behavior, or manner of dress; and these make the orders, and learn the goings of the stars, and the alteration of the moon, or revolution of the sun, and the good government of the world.''
''I Enoch 19:1''
''The Halls of Heaven, like its Host, are stratiﬁed between seven grand celestial mansions, known as the Seven''
''Heavens. It is over these Heavens that the Angelic Princes — Archangels — rule.''
''Shamayim: The lowest of the Heavens, The First Heaven is the abode of the ethereal stars, each guarded over by an angel. Gabriel rules Shamayim, which is a land ﬁlled with glorious trees and rich harvests.''
''Raqia: The Second Heaven imprisons many evil angels who have not been yet thrown to Hell and is ruled by Raphael, Galizur, and Zachariel. Also in Raqia are the planets.''
''Shehaqin: Shehaqin is ruled over by Jabniel, Rabacyl, and Dalquiel, and the Archangel Anahel. It is in the Third Heaven that the Garden of Eden now resides and the Tree of Life grows (from this tree came the manna that delivered the children of Israel).''
''Machonon: In the Fourth Heaven can be found the City of Christ and the heavenly Jerusalem, ruled over by Michael. Here is also found Sandalphon, angel of tears.''
''Mathey: The true Empyrean and home of the Avenging Angels, the Fifth Heaven is the dwelling of Metatron and is ruled by Shatqiel. It is a great void ﬁlled with ﬁre and smoke.''
''Zebul: The Sixth Heaven is a place of icy storms and snow-ridden angelic palaces, home of Cherubim and Phoenixes. Zachiel and Sabath are the rulers of Zebul.''
''Araboth: The Seventh Heaven is the dwelling of the Angels of Judgement, Seraphim, Cherubim, and Thrones, ruled over by Cassiel. Araboth is the closest thing in creation to God Himself, and is the location of his Throne.''

==The Seven Heavens==


|}
''cant holy traits may feel awe at seeing the interior of a cathedral or mosque, but may not be struck with intense feelings of love or devotion.''
''Particularly sinful characters (such as those with evil Personality Traits, as described in the Blessed By God chapter) have their guilty consciences pricked when entering a Divine aura. At low levels they may feel apprehensive, aware that someone knows their sinful activities or thoughts. A high-level Divine aura can ﬁll a sinful character with an overpowering sense of guilt and remorse, or fear of retribution. Many grievous sinners have broken down and confessed while standing before the Cathedral’s altar. In the seats of the Dominion’s power, such as St. Peter’s Basilica in Rome or the grand mosque in Mecca, those in constant or willing state of mortal sin are few.''
''Some people can be overwhelmed by a powerful Divine aura, experiencing a temporary state of intense piety during which they are utterly intoxicated by the mystical experience of the Divine. This is most common when visiting pilgrimage sites, such as Jerusalem’s Wailing Wall, the Church of the Holy Sepulcher, and the Dome of the Rock, and during holy periods such as Easter or Ramadan. During this time, they will feel intoxicated and obsess over a particular holy site, relic, or ﬁgure. After a few days, they gradually feel the need to be alone with God, are increasingly sensitive to sin and vice, and feel the need to constantly purify themselves.''
''The Dominion auras of different faiths, such as Christianity, Islam, or Judaism, or others such as Zoroastrianism, Catharism or Gnosticism, have no different game effects. How the Dominion affects a person is determined by the individual, not the faith the Dominion is sustained by. A bishop entering a mosque would feel the same spiritual sensation as if he entered a cathedral, a synagogue, or a ﬁre temple of the Magoi.''

===Magical Reaction To the Divine===

''When exposed to a Divine aura, the Gifted feel their magical power buffeted as though a candle ﬂame in a strong wind, or suffer from headaches, pain in body parts often affected by magic, or a short temper. Most importantly, the hubris of Hermetic mages (and other powerful magical practitioners and beings) is called into question in a Divine aura. Under the gaze of the Divine, the might of The Gift feels reduced to but a dim spark.''
''Despite this apparent Heavenly displeasure, magi may still experience positive emotions when in a Divine aura, such as euphoria greater than the thrill evoked by magic use, or a sense of reverent introspection akin to a positive Twilight event. Though their hands may throb and their Gifts flicker, some magi may feel as though their efforts are given unearthly perspective or meaning when standing before an altar.''
''Magical creatures also feel diminished in a Divine aura; used as they are to being mighty beings with great powers, they are given an unwelcome reminder that even greater beings than themselves reside within the Divine Realm.''

===Faerie Reaction To the Divine===

''Most fay ﬁnd the Divine to be confrontational and upsetting. The light of truth found within Divine auras makes faeries feel as though their glamours and illusions have been stripped away, and the sensible presence of the ultimate good can make them question the purpose of their existence. Nevertheless, the Divine is welcoming, offering truth rather than deception — a profound honesty more radiant than the most brilliant glamour, which some faeries ﬁnd comfort in.''

===Infernal Reaction To the Divine===

''Hate and fear characterizes Infernal opinion of Divine auras. The light, truth, and love that saturates Divine auras strikes directly against the essence of Infernal beings, and intense sensations of dread and self-loathing ﬁll diabolists and those afﬁliated with Hell. Despite this, devils and infernalists are adept at hiding their true feelings and rarely demonstrate what they may be experiencing. Demons are the most likely of creatures from nonDivine realms to be visiting a Divine aura, to tempt, corrupt, and spread wickedness.''

==The Dominion==

''But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children’s children; to such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandment to do them. The Lord hath pre''
''pared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.''
''Psalms 103:17-19''
''Fundamentally the Dominion is a worldly aura with a worldly purpose. It is God’s Kingdom on Earth. It was the Dominion that chased away or overwhelmed the other auras of Mythic Europe in the centuries after Christ. Wherever a community of Christians sprang up, the Dominion followed, growing rapidly in only a few generations to rub against the ancient auras found in grand temples of Greece and Rome and the hoary Faerie auras of Mythic Europe’s dense forests. Only the Middle East had known a Dominion like that of the Christians, home as it was of Judaism and the ﬁery Persian Zoroastrians. The sudden expansion of Islam in the seventh century also saw the growth of the Dominion, spreading with the call to prayer.''
''The Dominion is the Divine aura manifested for and around God’s faithful. It does not exist without a body of worshippers. It springs from God’s worldly houses, churches, mosques, and synagogues; waxes and wanes at certain times; and fades when worship is no longer given. Why this is the case is a mystery, but is appears that the Dominion’s strength is intimately linked to God’s sovereignty over his followers, and their belief in Him.''

===Dominion Power===

''As laid out in Ars Magica 5th Edition page 183, auras vary in power from 1 to''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Who Has the==


==Dominion?==

''The Dominion manifests wherever faithful gather to worship the creator and sustainer of all things, regardless of creed, doctrine, or scripture. The three faiths of the Book (Christianity, Islam, and Judaism) are all protected by a Dominion. So too are communities of the Cathars in Southern France, the Mandeans in Iran, the Zoroastrians in Persia, and heretics of all three major faiths, so long as adoration is given only to God, although such heresy will often cause schism (see Blessed By God, Holy Inﬂuence).''

|}
''10. The Dominion’s power will radiate from a community’s church or place of worship (mosque or synagogue) where it is strongest, to the edge of the communi''
''ty, where it is weakest. As a rule of thumb, the Dominion will extend from the altar, from where the salat is being chanted, or from the Torah scrolls, to as far as the church’s bells, the call to prayer, or the recitation of the Torah can be heard — until it encounters another, stronger aura or reaches the edge of the community.''
''Dominion power within a given area will vary. Inside a small church, for example, it has its strongest aura rating of 5 at the altar. This will decrease to 4 throughout the church, extending to the threshold of the church building, with the land and cemetery surrounding the church having a Dominion aura of 3. Within large churches or places of worship there may be several areas with high and low aura ratings, such as in the Church of Holy Wisdom in Constantinople — the largest church in Christendom — where the many altars, relics, and icons result in the Dominion varying between ﬁve and, in the holiest places within this holy place, 10.''
''In a city, most of the dwellings would be under a Dominion rating of 3, with areas of vice and sin having a lesser (or even no) Dominion, and particularly pious areas, like those near the church or monastery, having a Dominion of four.''
''On the outskirts of the city the Dominion would decrease to two, and after a few hours’ walk throughout the city’s ﬁelds (assuming the area was inhabited by Christians) the Dominion would be only one. Churches, mosques, and synagogues tend to have the highest Dominions in Mythic Europe. Cities, towns, and villages rarely have Dominion ratings above 3.''
''As another guide, the Dominion is typically strongest where people gather to worship in a consecrated place (aura 4), with the dwellings of the faithful protected by the next-strongest aura (aura 3), and the workplaces of the faithful gaining the ﬁnal level of Dominion (aura 1 or 2).''

===Conflicting Auras===

''More so than other auras, the Dominion regularly conﬂicts and challenges the auras from other realms. During the expansion of Christianity, Islam, and the kingdom of Israel, the Dominion abutted and pressed against Magic and Faerie auras. Due to the purpose and nature of the Dominion, when it comes to inﬂuence in an area with another realm’s aura of equal strength, the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Dominion Power==


==Examples==

''A quick guide to determine the strength of the Dominion in a given area is provided below. At night, subtract one from the rating, and add one on holy days (Sundays for example). Mosques and synagogues of equal signiﬁcance to a church have the equivalent Dominion rating.''
''AREA AURA RATING Rural area...........................................1 Town or fortiﬁcation.........................2 City....................................................3 Consecrated ground.......................3-5 Small Church ....................................4 Large Church or Cathedral ...............5 Site of pilgrimage or veneration ....4-8 St Peter’s Basilica, Church of Holy Wisdom, the Dome of the Rock, Mt. Sinai ......................5-10''

|}
''Dominion will trump the opposing aura; a more-powerful aura will still overwhelm the Dominion, however.''
''Exempli Gratia: A church with a Dominion rating of 4 is built upon an ancient pagan temple to Pan with a Faerie aura of 4. The Dominion will preside during the day. At night (when the Dominion decreases to 3) and on holy days to Pan (when the Faerie aura increases to 5), the Faerie aura emerges.''

===Creating a Dominion Aura===

''Dominion auras do not spring up spontaneously. They are the result of a community of faithful gathering in worship. To create a Dominion aura, three things are required: a celebrant, a consecrated altar (or similar, such as Torah scrolls and menorah lamp, or recitation of the Qur’an) and a congregation. The celebrant must perform a Dominion rite, following which the Dominion begins to emanate from the altar to protect the assembled congregation.''
''A celebrant must have an appropriate Social Virtue (Priest, Rabbi, or ’Alim, for instance) and a Theology or Dominion Lore Ability score of two or greater. He (or she) must gather a congregation of at''
''least ten believers at a consecrated site, where the appropriate ritual is performed (Mass in the case of Christianity).''
''For a Christian site to be consecrated, it must be blessed by the celebrant or be built over the relics of a saint. From the eighth century, the Church has a particular formula for an altar’s consecration, where relics are ceremonially interred beneath the church’s altar. For Judaism and Islam, the area merely needs to be blessed.''
''To correctly perform a Dominion rite, the celebrant must roll a stress die and add his Communication + Theology (or Dominion Lore) versus an Ease Factor of 6.''

===Dominion Rite: Communication + Theology (Or Dominion Lore) + Stress===


===Die Vs. Ease Factor 6===

''Successfully performed Dominion rites may do one of two things: consecrate an area, or allow the Dominion to enter a place. To perform the second function, the ﬁrst must be successfully achieved; thus, to create a Dominion, two rolls must''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Holy of Holies==

''Apart from the Dominion, the holiness of the Eucharist is the next most ubiquitous manifestation of the sacred in Mythic Europe. The Thanksgiving (eucharistia) is the Sacriﬁce of Mass in which Jesus is truly present in the water and wine. In the Eucharist are truly and substantially present the Body and Blood of the God-Man Christ for the nourishment of the soul, by reason of the transubstantiation of the bread and wine, which also contain the un-bloody sacriﬁce of the New Testament.''
''Opinions are being reﬁned within the Western Church — in light of the Council of Chalcedon — as to whether or not Christ the Man is present in the Eucharist. Clearly the divine Christ is omnipresent, and manifest within the wafer and wine, but there is no clear position on whether Christ the Man being ubiquitous in the Eucharist negates Chalcedonian orthodoxy that Christ was “truly man … without change”. How can a truly human man be divided into bits and distributed around the world? This issue has yet to be resolved.''
''In Mythic Europe, the communion wafer and wine are among the holiest of objects, being truly the blood and body of Christ, the Word of God. The substance of the wafer and wine is miraculously replaced with that of Christ each time the priest pronounces the words of consecration. The notion that the transubstantiation is only allegorical is, by the thirteenth century, relatively uncommon and even considered heretical. Popular piety demands that the congregation be witness to this miracle, and the custom of the priest displaying the transubstantiated Host above his head so that it may be beheld is spreading.''
''In Christian churches, the Host is a focus of worship, being the manifestation of God the Son. The Eucharist radiates a Dominion (not Empyreal aura) of five until the next Good Friday; this aura decreases by one every ﬁve paces, and completely vanishes if profaned in any way (such as if it is used for any superstitious purpose).''
''Built by the Franks in 1103 to watch over a narrow passage along the coast between Haifa and Acre, Destroit was taken over by the Knights Templar in the mid-twelfth century and renamed to Athlit. In order to carry out their mission to protect pilgrims traveling to Jerusalem, the Templars are currently rebuilding and expanding it. Athlit is a place removed from the sin of Acre; its inhabitants and those in its surrounds are quite devout, and this is reﬂected in slightly higher Dominion ratings than normal.''
''Athlit, the Pilgrim’s Castle, is situated in the diocese of Caesarea, and is founded upon a high promontory overhanging the sea. Originally merely a tower that prevented bandits from attacking pilgrims traveling between Haifa and Acre down the narrow coastal path, it now has a nearly completed short fortiﬁed wall and two more towers. An ancient wall has been uncovered during construction and has been incorpo''
''rated into the newer, smaller wall. The towers are one hundred feet long, seventy ﬁve feet wide, and thirty feet tall, and a large wall lies between them. Large vaulted rooms (where the pilgrims rest) are within the two large towers, a small chapel is situated within the tower closest to the ocean, and sumptuous houses and dwellings for the resident Templars are also contained inside. Surrounding Athlit are ﬁsheries, saltpans, and vineyards, which are proﬁtable enterprises for the Templars, as well as pastures, ﬁelds, and a small wood, which produce healthy surpluses even in times of hardship.''
''The area surrounding the Pilgrim’s Castle — its ﬁsheries and vineyards — has a Dominion rating of 2. Within its walls the Dominion rises to 3. The castle’s small oratory has a Dominion of 4 (5 at the altar). Along the recently uncovered ancient wall there is no Dominion, but any other aura has long since vanished.''

==Sample Dominion Aura: Athlit, the Pilgrim’s Castle==


|}
''be made. The same person need not perform both rites, but two Dominion rites must be performed in an area for a Dominion to manifest.''
''Following a second successful Dominion rite, a Dominion aura with a rating of 3 is created at the end of the service and will radiate as far as the congregation’s prayers can be heard, or the consecrated ground be seen. The Dominion will endure for as long as the congregation meets and continues to worship, in general at least once per week. After a year, if the congregation continues to worship weekly (or regularly), the Dominion grows to four; after a decade, the Dominion may grow to ﬁve if the congregation is large, and the church is a signiﬁcant one with wide importance''
''If a place ceases to be a site of worship, the Dominion starts to fade. In general, the time it takes to fade is the same as the time for which the place was a site of regular worship. Thus, if a church were consecrated in the wilderness, used for six months, and then abandoned, the Dominion would drop to zero over the course of a further six months. On the other hand, the Lateran Basilica in Rome has been a center of worship for at least 900 years, so even in a long-running saga its Dominion will not drop. The fall in aura is steady, so that in the ﬁrst example the aura would drop from four to three after six weeks, to two after three months, to one after four and half months, and to zero after six months.''
''A botch during this roll may result in Warping, Divine displeasure, or in gaining the attention of Infernal beings.''
''Dominion ratings higher than ﬁve are achieved through extremely holy objects, or the relics of particularly exemplary saints, which must have more than five Faith Points. The Dominion is increased by one for each Faith Point the relic possesses in excess of ﬁve.''
''The Dominion will also extend to surround the congregation’s dwelling places, with a rating of 3, and their workplaces (if in a different area, such as ﬁelds or outside of a township) with a rating of 2 or 1.''

==Empyreal Auras==

''Among them was a tree like no other. Its fragrance was beyond all fragrance, and its leaves and blooms and wood never withered. Its fruit was beautiful, resembling the dates of the''
''palm. Then I said, “How beautiful this tree is! Its leaves are fair, and its blooms delightful in appearance.”''
''1 Enoch 24:4-5''
''Empyreal auras are less common than the Dominion, as they are manifestations of the Divine Realm without the mediation of a congregation. They are purer than the Dominion and relate to aspects of God that are not normally encountered or considered by His worshippers. In most cases they are channeled through a powerful divine creature, relic, or saint, or in areas of divine signiﬁcance not related to the worship of God. When encountering an Empyreal aura, its source is its most important characteristic. The Empyreal aura of a selﬂess angel will feel different to that of the site of an saint’s martyrdom, although the game effect is the same.''
''Empyreal auras located in places rather than around people are typically those areas inhabited by non-human servants of the divine. The lair of Lupersus could be a den with a (low) Empyreal aura, assuming he remained there for some time.''
''There is no difference, system wise, between Empyreal auras and the Dominion. They are distinguished by their source and purpose. Relics interred beneath an altar become the locus of mundane worship and so radiate a Dominion aura rather than an Empyreal aura.''

===Empyreal Aura Power===

''People and relics only radiate an Empyreal aura when they have five or more Faith Points (see Blessed By God, True Faith). A place where a powerful miracle has occurred, or where a Divine creature lives, may fall under an Empyreal aura.''
''Empyreal auras from miracles have a rating of one point for every ﬁve levels of miracle above 50. A miracle with a magnitude of 50 generates an Empyreal aura of 1, and a level 65 miracle creates an Empyreal aura of 4, for as long as the miracle’s effect is present or continues to have an inﬂuence on the person or area (note however that the Empyreal aura is static and does not move). Continued miraculous activity in the area will help sustain the Empyreal aura, which will extend in a sphere for as far as the miracles effect.''
''The living places of divine creatures can also become sanctiﬁed and radiate Empyreal auras. If Lupersus the holy wolf''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sample Empyreal==


==Aura: The Tree Guarded by Michael==

''When patriarch Enoch was shown heaven and hell by two ﬁery cherubim, he visited a ring of mountains somewhere on earth (most likely in the Caucus Mountains) where, upon the highest peak, stood a ring of trees unlike any others in the world. The most splendid one of all is beloved by God and no mortal is permitted to touch it, for its roots are linked to those of the divine World Tree, and it grew out of a seed from the greatest tree in the Garden of Eden. This tree stands guarded by the Archangel Michael (see Angels), where he endures with his ﬂaming sword until the trumpet of Armageddon is sounded. Upon Judgment Day the tree will be transplanted to stand before the temple of the Eternal king, where its fruits shall be food for the elect.''
''The tree guarded by Michael is a sacred plant from the Garden of Eden with a Divine Might of 50. Because it has grown for countless eons, the area radiates an Empyreal aura of 5. The other trees surrounding it are its seedlings. Each tree possesses a Divine Might of 5 and so do not cause their own Empyreal auras.''
''While Michael will not allow anyone to approach or touch the greater tree, he will allow truly pious visitors to the mountain (those with at least one Faith Point, or an appropriate Personality Trait, such as Pious, rated at least +3) to go near and even touch the lesser trees. The sinful and non-believers are prevented by Michael from touching or approaching the lesser trees as well.''
''Consuming the fruit of a lesser tree confers the Personality Trait Joyful +3 upon the character and allows him to subtract 5 from his next aging roll. The beneﬁts of eating the lesser fruit do not stack, and may only be regained (by eating another fruit) after the character suffers an aging crisis (see Ars Magica 5th Edition, Long Term Events, Aging). Planting the seed of the lesser tree elsewhere in Mythic Europe will produce a tree with Divine Might of 1, whose fruits when eaten create the Personality Trait Joyful +1, or add +1 to the trait if it already exists, although this effect only occurs the ﬁrst time the fruit is eaten.''

|}
''were to spend signiﬁcant time (such as a season) in a particular place, that place will begin to develop an Empyreal aura of 1, which increases by one each season that he spends there up to a maximum rating of his Divine Might divided by 10. Like all Empyreal auras, it radiates in a sphere as far as the borders of his dwelling.''

==Divine Regiones==

''Have ye not known? Have ye not heard? Hath it not been told you from the beginning? Have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth? It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in.''
''Isaiah 40:21-22''
''The Bible and the various deuterocanonical texts relate tales of Divine regiones — the sub-lunar paradises visited by saints and prophets. More so than regiones of other realms, Divine regiones typify a holy virtue or temperament, such as justice, honor, love, or mercy. They have a purpose: to instruct those that visit them or to house Divine beings.''
''Divine regiones, like normal regiones, are pocket realms, discrete from the aura and area around them. They can only be visited by inhabitants of the regio and their guests, or accidentally stumbled across by the unwary. Those who have returned from a Divine regio often relate their experience as similar to climbing steep stairs or a ladder, leaving them breathless and lightheaded.''
''Some Divine regiones have come into being through the prayers of a saint or devout community of believers, but most are created by powerful divine beings or through Divine Will. All Divine regiones are or were located in a Divine aura. Time and space in a Divine regio can be disorienting. Small lower levels of a regio can lead to vast upper levels, and time can move slowly, or not at all. Remnants of a bygone era — martyrs ﬂeeing Roman persecution or soldiers from''
''the First Crusade — may reside in a paradise-like regio, unaware of the centuries that have passed since they entered.''
''There are two kinds of Divine regiones: terrestrial regiones, which are linked to some place in the mundane realm, and celestial regiones, which are spiritual places not geographically bound to the earth.''
''For the mechanics of entering and leaving regiones, and for performing magic within them, refer to Ars Magica 5th Edition, p.189-90.''

==Terrestrial Regiones==

''And after that he took me up away from that place where I had seen these things and, behold, a river whose waters were very white, whiter than milk. And I said to the angel: “What is this?” And he said “This is Lake Acherusia where the city of Christ is, but not every man is allowed to enter into that city. For this is the way that leads to God”.''
''Apocalypse of Paul, 22''
''Legendary churches, sacred caves, and holy lakes are all locations of terrestrial regiones. They are spheres tied to a speciﬁc geographical location. All terrestrial regiones share some of the same characteristics: they are holy versions of''
''the world they are tied to, intimately linked to a particular holy virtue, ideal, or archetype. They are stark, bold, confronting, awe-inspiring, and humbling; rarely are they restrained or discreet. Upon entering even a lowly regio, a character becomes quickly aware that he has encountered a sacred place.''
''Most inhabitants are far more likely to wander into a terrestrial regio than a celestial one. Terrestrial regiones tend to typify a particular virtue or theme, though they tend to be virtues of the ﬂesh, such as courage, honor, or fortitude. Terrestrial regiones are found near holy sites, such as particularly ancient and sacred churches, or older holy sites, such as Mount Sinai or the resting place of Noah’s Ark.''

===Inside Terrestrial Regiones===

''Upon entering a terrestrial regio, visitors will be struck by the remarkable and vivid differences between the mundane realm they have left, and the divine one. Terrestrial regiones appear similar to the mundane world they are linked to, yet even in a low-level regio the differences are vast.''
''Trees and plants are purer versions of their mundane counterparts, grand and luminous. Animals, even the meekest sheep or mice, may be majestic and terrifying, or untainted exemplars of innocence and humility. The light in a terrestrial regio is bright, clear, and barely endurable. It pierces the eyes, saturates the body, and penetrates to the soul. Even''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''In 2 Corinthians 12, the Apostle Paul recalls a rapturous journey to paradise. The Apocalypse of Paul, an apocryphal scripture discovered in the fourth century, records this voyage. From his home in Tarsus, Paul was taken by two angels of righteousness to experience heaven.''
''Some way from Tarsus is a land of joy and light, ﬁlled with bounteous fruit trees of every kind. Many of the trees are very tall, and the soil itself glows like silver. Beyond trees with ten thousand branches, and vines with ten thousand dates and grapes, is a river of pure white water, leading to a vast lake. On the shore of the lake is a dock at which is berthed a golden ship, and on the far side of the lake is a great city, in front of which the archangel Michael baptizes the repentant before they enter.''
''This regio is a very special one, as it leads through several layers and possibly to the very gates of Heaven. The land ﬁlled with fruit trees is a level 1 regio. Once the ground glows like silver you have reached the level 3 regio, where the trees have ten thousand branches and ten thousand fruit on each branch, representing Divine gifts to the worthy. If you reach a river of white water, then you have reached the level 6 regio. Following the river will lead to the shore of Lake Acherusia, the edge of which is a level 8 regio. The far shore, where Archangel Michael awaits, is a level 10 regio, which is only accessible by traveling on the golden ship that berths at the dock. Beyond the city’s walls … only the Apostle Paul knows for certain.''

==Sample Terrestrial Regio: Lake Acherusia==


|}
''the most humble regio is profound and moving. The more potent the regio is, the more awe-inspiring and exalted the landscape becomes, as ﬂowers and birds sing the names and virtues of God and rejoice in indescribable joy and glory.''
''In powerful regiones (those with a rating of ﬁve or greater), the features of the landscape are thrown into contrast; colors are vivid and bright without gradient or ambiguity, the light leaves no shadows, and sounds are uncomplicated and pure. Animals and plants are large and ﬂawless, like the inhabitants of Eden.''
''At these levels it is likely that even the basest object, such as leaves, water, or rocks, could be used or distilled into vis; certainly any animals at this level would contain a few pawns, although killing them to harvest it would no doubt raise the ire of more-powerful inhabitants.''

===Inhabitants===

''Most of the native inhabitants of a terrestrial regio are beings of ﬂesh and blood — divine animals or biblical creatures. Angels may visit, but they tend to reside in celestial regiones. Sentient inhabitants of a terrestrial regio (even those with no Divine Might) are beings of great distinction, with ﬁery eyes, tongues of ﬁre, or shining faces. Often they will be creatures from biblical myth: holy giants from before the Great Flood or brass serpents, for instance. The inhabitants of a regio will more often than not represent or in some way personify the terrestrial regio’s virtue: lions for courage, sheep or dogs for loyalty, doves for peace, and so on.''
''Not every Divine regio is ﬁlled with Divine beings or antediluvian monsters. Some may be the home for a single Divine creature. Terrestrial regiones tend not to be the home of “courts” of divine beings — that is more common with celestial regiones — but rather earthly paradises for servants of the Divine Realm.''

==Celestial Regiones==

''And they brought me to a place in which people were like ﬂaming ﬁre. When they wished they appeared as men. And then they brought me to a place of darkness … And I saw the places of the luminaries, the treasuries of the stars and the thunder … I saw the treasuries of all the''
''winds. I saw how God had furnished the whole creation and the firm foundations of the earth … Then I observed the four winds which bear the earth and the ﬁrmament in heaven. And I saw how the winds stretch out the vaults of Heaven and have their station between heaven and earth. These are Heaven’s pillars.''
''1 Enoch 17''
''The Vault of the Sky, the palaces of the seraphs and archangels, the stairs to the Divine Realm, and the sanctuaries of the Pole Lords are all examples of Celestial regiones. Celestial regiones are the homes of the divine powers that shake the earth, guard over its movements, moderate the rays of the sun, measure the rain, and guide the course of rivers. They are unfixed, and while often vast beyond comprehension, can be as minor as the residences of angels who guard a ﬂower, or the incandescent breeze that wraps and protects a heaven-sent dove.''
''Gaining entry into a Celestial regio is rare, and is generally only possible through invitation. Most celestial regiones are guarded by angels or divine spirits who eject intruders or accidental visitors. A character is most likely to visit a celestial regio if taken there by his Guardian Angel (or similar) in a vision or dream, rather than visiting in the ﬂesh. Furthermore, celestial regiones move from place to place, and may not be accessible from the ground. Their link to the mundane world is tenuous and often at the whim of their powerful angelic resident.''

===Inside Celestial Regiones===

''For mundanes who enter a celestial regio, the environment can be overwhelmingly symbolic, filled with fire, ethereal song, or strange beings. Other celestial regiones infuse mortal visitors with ecstasy or sensations of ascending to Heaven, or cause the apprehension of all sensations, such as time, pain, fatigue, or emotions, to completely cease.''
''Only the strong willed or spiritually pure can retain their senses or comprehend such a place. Celestial regiones are the domain of powerful Divine beings, elaborate angelic courts, or the provinces of holy spirits tasked with the oversight of God’s creation. They are intended for those Divine creatures, and so make little concession for the frailties of humanity.''
''The homes of angels are not for mere mortals. Without mystical protection or Faith Points, a character entering a celestial region is overwhelmed with Heavenly and incomprehensible sensations. To be able to act normally while inside the regio, a mortal visitor must succeed at a stress roll of Stamina + Dominion Lore against an Ease Factor equal to the rating of the regio multiplied by three.''

===Overcome Celestial Disorientation: Stamina + Dominion Lore + Stress Dice===


===Celestial Disorientation Ease Factor: Regio Rating X3===

''A character with Parma Magica or some other magical protection may add that Ability rather than Dominion Lore if it is higher. Characters with Faith Points''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sample Celestial==


==Heaven: The Treasury of the==


==Four Winds==

''Far above the cities of God’s faithful, within a place of darkness and stars, is the Treasury of the Four Winds stretched against the vault of the sky. The Treasury of the Four Winds is a vast vault filled with unimaginable forces, for stored within is every gust, breeze, gale, gust, and storm, and within it ﬂy grand birds and avians that survived the Flood. Many of the winds are themselves Divine spirits that may possess a great deal of knowledge of the world. Only lightning and the distant sparkling stars bring light to this dark place. Guarding the four portals to the Treasury are the servants of the archangels Metatron, Kemuel, Nathanael, and Gabriel, who regulate the strength and direction of the world’s winds.''
''Faithful petitioners could convince one of the angels to release some of the wind in their favor, or to alter in some manner the direction or strength of a wind or storm. The four angels are particularly likely to help someone with Faith Points, or someone who promises to perform some inscrutable task for the angel.''
''The Treasury of the Four Winds is a single layer, level 7 regio.''

|}
''may spend one to ignore celestial disorientation altogether. Even overcoming the celestial disorientation does not make the character immune to the sensations caused by the regio; it merely allows the character to act without penalty.''
''If the character succeeds at overcoming the celestial disorientation, he may act normally.''
''Failing the roll means the character is bewildered and overwhelmed until he leaves, and suffers a penalty to any roll equal to the rating of the regio multiplied by three.''

===Celestial Disorientation===


===Penalty: Regio Rating X3===

''Due to the unrestrained essence of the Divine, normal humans cannot stand prolonged exposure to celestial regiones. After a number of hours equal to their Stamina + Parma Magica + 3, they begin to lose Fatigue, at a rate of one level every hour until they leave — once their Fatigue is exhausted (i.e. they become Unconscious), they gain Warping Points instead, at a rate of one per level of the regio every hour. If this gain is two or more, then it may cause Divine Ascent (see Blessed By God, Divine Warping), in which case they will not gain any additional Warping Points until their Ascent is ﬁnished.''

===Prolonged Exposure Limit:===


===Stamina + Parma Magica (Or===


===Similar Ability) + 3===


===Fatigue Loss After Exposure===


===Limit: 1 Per Hour (Days for Characters With True Faith)===


===Warping Point Gain After Unconsciousness: Regio Level===


===Per Hour (Days for Characters===


===With True Faith)===

''Characters with a True Faith Score may remain for days rather than hours.''

==Inhabitants==

''Every manner of blessed and heavenly creature could be found in a celestial regio, although they share one inherent trait: they are all spiritual creatures. The very nature of a celestial realm is intended for creatures of light and ﬁre, wind and air.''
''Refer to Angels, below, for more information about the inhabitants of celestial regiones.''

==Creating Divine Regiones==

''There are two ways to create a Divine regio: divine creatures, and miraculous effects.''

===Divine Creatures===

''Powerful divine entities, such as heavenly giants and angels, often reside in Divine regiones if they do not permanently dwell in Heaven. Divine beings with a Divine Might score of 20 or greater have the ability to create temporary Divine regiones of either kind.''
''The creature must spend at least 10 Divine Might points, which creates a single-level regio with a rating of 1. Expenditure of further Divine Might creates additional levels or increases the''
''regio’s rating, at a rate of 10 points per level or rating.''
''A created regio will last for a year, after which it will become unstable and disappear, unless the creature (or other Divine creatures, such as those who reside in the regio) continues to expend Divine Might to sustain it. A number of Might points must be spent each month after the ﬁrst year as were spent to create it.''

===The Mystic Arts===

''Divine regiones have occasionally been created through the miracle of prayer, although with the Dominion now dominant in Mythic Europe, it is exceedingly rare for the miracle of a regio to occur. It is also possible for a holy character to create a Divine regio using his own powers. Such a feat has not been achieved''
''in recorded memory, although a few holy magi pursue the possibility (see Blessed By God, Miraculous Effects for the mechanics of this, and Mythic Christianity, Characters for an example).''

===Spontaneous Regiones===

''A spontaneous regio may be created through a particularly powerful divine act, whether a miracle, holy power, or expenditure of Divine Might. Any effect of tenth magnitude or greater may create a temporary Divine regio, although there is no precise system for this, other than story necessity.''

==Divine Beings==

''Not all beings with Divine Might are angels. There are many creatures, both earthly and spiritual, with Divine Might who do not reside in Heaven or do not have angelic qualities.''
''A divine being is any creature that possesses Divine Might. This includes saints in heaven, holy unicorns, phoenixes or chalkydri, divine elementals or spirits, and numerous other creatures. Most divine beings reside on earth or in terrestrial regiones, and only interact with humans for speciﬁc purposes. They do not necessarily have any special knowledge of the Divine realm, although they may. Many have become divine beings through association since time immemorial, while others may have been created for a specific purpose, or once been a mundane creature that was blessed.''
''There are innumerable divine beings in Mythic Europe. Any animal or plant may possess Divine Might and have holy powers, although they are likely to reside in divine terrestrial regiones rather than the mundane world.''

==Nephilim==

''The Nephilim were on the earth in those days — and also afterward — when the sons of God went to the daughters of men and had children by them. They were the heroes of old, men of renown.''
''Genesis 6:4''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Praise the Lord … you Mighty Ones who do His bidding, who obey His word.''
''Psalm 103:20''
''Divine Might: 4 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +1, Com''
''+1, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: +1 Age: 80 (20) Decrepitude: 0 Conﬁdence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Mythic Compan''
''ion: Nephilim (free); Entrancement, Greater Immunity: Disease, Blood of the Nephilim; Enduring Constitution, Great Stamina, Great Strength, Improved Characteristics (x2), Keen Vision, Lesser Purifying Touch, Long-Winded, Rapid Convalescence, Sense Holiness and Unholiness, Strong Angelic Heritage (free), Student of the Divine; Compassionate, Enemies; Fear of fire, Generous, Lesser Malediction, Vow Personality Traits: Greedy +3, Devout''
''+2, Callous –2 Reputations: None Combat: Fist: Init –1, Attack +3, Defense +2,''
''Damage +4 Spear (Short): Init +1, Attack +5, Defense''
''+2, Damage +9 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –2, –4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-6), –3 (7-12),''
''–5 (13-18), Incapacitated (19-24) Abilities: (Area) Lore 5 (regiones), Ath''
''letics 4 (running), Awareness 5 (wilderness), Brawl 2 (ﬁst), Carouse 4 (staying sober), Charm 4 (friendly conversation), Concentration 4 (while performing music), Dominion Lore 7 (divine beings), Entrancement 6 (bringing peace), Etiquette 5 (angels), Folk Ken 5''
''(divine beings), Hebrew 4 (archaic), Leadership 4 (outside combat), Magic Lore 2 (spirits), Music 6 (singing), Penetration 5 (demons) Sense Holiness and Unholiness 7 (demons), Single Weapon 2 (spears), Survival 5 (deserts), Teaching 4 (Music) Powers: Admonish the Ferocious Animal, 1 point, –1,''
''Animal: As Circle of Beast Warding. Curse the Sinful Foe, 1 point, –1, Corpus: As''
''Spasms of the Uncontrolled Hand. Halo, 1 point, –1, Ignem: As Lamp Without''
''Flame, which manifests as a halo around Abbas’ head. The Lord’s Terrifying Herald, 1 point, –1,''
''Auram: As Jupiter’s Resounding Blow. Equipment: Clothes, jewelry, bronze''
''spear. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 1 pawn Corpus in heart. Appearance: Abbas is a giant (some''
''eight feet tall) with eyes like sapphires. He wears archaic clothes (the style is several hundred years old) encrusted with emeralds and silver, and inscribed with holy words and symbols. He has an oiled beard and jet-black hair that is intricately braided and interwoven with strands of precious metal.''
''Abbas, one of the Nephilim, is the only survivor of an infernal attack on his home, a terrestrial regio near to the player characters’ covenant. He fled the regio to seek help, but was pursued by a fiery hell-hound that left him badly burned (and afraid of ﬁre). Abbas is a kind-hearted soul with a love for music and keen ability to assess a person’s character. He currently has the enmity of a powerful devil who orchestrated the assault. Abbas is seeking help to avenge his murdered family, a solemn promise he made to God, and may see the characters’ covenant as a possible ally.''

==Abbas the Hunted==


|}
''Tales of angels breeding with humankind go back to the age of Noah. Nephilim were the giants and heroes of renown that inhabited the earth with the children of Seth before the Flood. They are often known as the Mighty Ones or Earth Born. Legends state that they were three hundred cubits high (some 500 feet), and helped Nimrod construct the Tower of Babel. Before the Deluge, most Nephilim had been infernally corrupted. They were all drowned in the great deluge, except for two pious Nephilim who hid on Noah’s Ark.''
''Most Nephilim now live in divine regiones and are not as grand as their forebears. They belong to the Divine Realm, but there are many in Mythic Europe who have fallen like their antediluvian fore''
''bears, and are now diabolical giants with terrible powers.''
''Nephilim possess many angelic qualities, but they are diminished due to time and because of their ﬂesh. They are ageless, but can eventually die although they may live for thousands of years. Nephilim are immune to sickness and disease, but must eat prodigiously or else they fall into a deep slumber, and may eventually starve to death. Nephilim may procreate with each other, and also with humans and other human-like supernatural creatures, such as giants.''
''Since Nephilim live for thousands of years, they can grow to great proportions and may have many divine powers that mimic hedge magic and holy powers. The traits given here are for relatively young Nephilim.''

==Heaven’s Host==

''Every generous act of giving, with every perfect gift, is from above, coming down from the Father of lights''
''James 1:17''
''Amid the perfection of the Divine Realm are the angels, spiritual creatures of immaculate goodness, imbued with holiness and possessed of near-perfect knowledge of God.''
''At the moment of the ﬁrst Light, from directly amid the radiant creation of Heaven, the primal angels were created: Lucifer (or Satan), Michael, Raphael, Israfel, Gabriel, Uriel, Azrael, and the other Heavenly princes. From the breath of Israfel were created the Angelic Choirs, formed to be utterly good, blissful, and immaculate.''
''One angel, Lucifer the Light Bearer, was set over all the hosts of angels, surpassing them in brightness and knowledge so that all the Angelic Orders were but a mantle around his shoulders. Through the sin of Pride, Lucifer rebelled. Although he had Fallen from grace, a third of Heaven’s Host Fell with him. War raged between Heaven’s Host and the Fallen, and ended when Lucifer was thrown by Michael from Heaven and condemned to the prison of Hell. When exactly this occurred is unknown, for the rebellion is eternal.''
''The remaining angels serve the Divine realm faithfully and joyously. They continuously watch their fallen brethren, the devils, and are locked in ceaseless conﬂict to defend the souls of humanity against Hell’s profane predations.''

==What are Angels?==

''On this account the holy ranks of the Celestial Beings are present with and participate in the Divine Principle in a degree far surpassing all those things which merely exist, and irrational living creatures, and rational human beings. For moulding themselves intelligibly to the imitation of God, and looking in a supermundane way to the Likeness of the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''And I looked and saw other ﬂying elements of the sun, whose name is Chalkydri, marvelous and wonderful, with feet and tails in the form of a lion, and a crocodile’s head, their appearance is empurpled, like the rainbow; their size is nine hundred measures, their wings are like those of angels, each has twelve, and they attend and accompany the sun, bearing heat and dew, as it is ordered them from God.''
''2 Enoch 12:1''
''Divine Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –2, Per +1, Pre 0,''
''Com –1, Str +6, Sta +5, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: +5 Conﬁdence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity''
''(Fire and Heat) Personality Traits: Compassionate +2 Reputations: None Combat: Bite: Init +1, Attack +14, Defense +11,''
''Damage +12 Claws: Init +2, Attack +16, Defense +14,''
''Damage +13 Wings: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +5,''
''Damage +8 Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, 0, –1, –1, –3,''
''–3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-10), –3 (11-20),''
''–5 (21-30), Incapacitated (30-40)''
''Abilities: Athletics 7 (ﬂight), Awareness 5''
''(sight), Brawl 5 (bite), Dominion Lore 3 (divine creatures), Hunt 5 (sunlight) Powers: Blinding Reﬂection, 1 point, +4, Ignem:''
''When threatened, chalkydri can angle a set of their wings to deﬂect the burning rays of the sun against their foe, which blinds the target as Flash of the Scarlet Flames, and does damage as Arc of Fiery Ribbons. Radiant Invisibility, 2 point, +1, Imaginem:''
''With this power, chalkydri can turn invisible and walk in even the busiest place without being seen or sensed by humans. Some animals and those with the appropriate Virtues (such as Sense Holiness and Unholiness) may still sense them. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 1 pawn of Animal in head, one pawn''
''(total) of Ignem and Auram in wings. Appearance: Chalkydri appear as a lion''
''with a crocodile’s head. They glow with shimmering purple light and have six sets of enormous golden wings, which appear to be made of gleaming ﬁre and water.''
''Chalkydri are fantastic creatures that regulate the heat from the sun, lit by Raphael’s brilliance. They carry down soothing dew and catch its rays in their wings. Chalkydri are found in both terrestrial and celestial regiones, and high above mortal settlements and cities, protecting them from the burning light of the sun, or at sunrise near to the earth, when they dispense the dew.''

==Chalkydri==


|}
''Supreme Deity, and longing to form the intellectual appearance of It, they naturally have more abundant communion with Him, and with unremitting activity they tend eternally up the steep, as far as is permitted, through the ardor of their unwearying divine love, and they receive the Primal Radiance in a pure and immaterial manner, adapting themselves to this in a life wholly intellectual.''
''— Dionysus the Areopagite, The Celestial Hierarchy, Chapter IV''
''Angels are the messengers of God, created to be agents of His Providence and Will. They are beings composed entirely of intellect and unfailing life. They are free from corruption, death, matter, gender, and generation, being the most perfect beings in existence.''
''Strictly speaking, angels in Ars Magica are the spiritual inhabitants of Heaven. They are instilled with Divine''
''Might and are the holy messengers of God’s Will to mankind. Angels are distinguished from other spiritual beings that possess Divine Might by their role or ofﬁce. Angels also cross religious traditions; the Jewish Michael is the same being as the Islamic Mika’il, for example. Some angels tend to be more well-known within one faith than others.''
''All angels were created for a purpose and thus belong to a Choir (some angels may have been created for a purpose that has not yet come about, such as guardian angels for people not yet born). Angels may not belong to more than one Choir at a time (the Archangel Choir being the exception). Every angel that currently exists has always existed and always will. No new angels may come into being. However, other divine beings may come into being through circumstance or necessity, such as chalkydri, or saints entering Heaven.''
''Unless they have a speciﬁc duty that necessitates they leave Heaven, angels from the three highest Choirs remain there. Angels in the second triad divide their time between Celestial regiones and''
''Heaven if they have responsibilities on earth. The three least exalted Choirs of angels have the most to do with the mundane world and its inhabitants.''
''While angels were created to serve God unwaveringly, they have many responsibilities that give them a certain amount of independence when not acting at God’s direct command. Angels were made for a purpose, but need not necessarily perform that task all the time. An angel whose role it is to protect an hour is only occupied with that task for an hour each day. Likewise powerful angels, such as archangels, can perform multiple actions and be in multiple places simultaneously.''

==Angelic Choirs==

''Suddenly a great company of the heavenly host appeared with the angel, praising God and saying, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace to men on whom his favor rests.”''
''Luke 2:13-14''
''There are three Hierarchies (also known as Orders) of angels, laid out by St. Dionysus the Areopagite. Each Hierarchy is further divided into three Choirs. The angelic choirs are (from most exalted to least): Seraphim, Cherubim, and Thrones; Dominations, Authorities, and Potentates; and Principalities, Archangels, and Angels. All angels, regardless of their involvement or common alignment with a particular faith or religion come within the Angelic Hierarchy.''

==Angelic Traits==

''It is a very different thing to foresee the changes of the temporal order in the eternal and unchanging laws of God, which live eternally in his wisdom, and, by participation in the Spirit of God, to know the will of God, which is supremely certain and supremely powerful; this privilege is granted, by a just distinction, to the holy angels. Thus they are blessed as well as eternal. The good, which renders''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''There is dispute as to precise nature of the Angelic Orders, in particular among Jewish theologians. Many kabbalists and rabbis believe there are ten Choirs. In order of highest ranked to lowest, they are:''
''Chaioth ha-Qadesh: The four Angels of Judgement, each is greater than the entire of the rest of the Heavenly Host together, as they stand directly before God. The Angels of Judgement are sometimes known as the Watchers (“Grigori”).''
''Ofanim: The Hebrew name for the Thrones, the Ofanim (“the wheels”) are ruled by Ofaniel and Raphael and are associated with the seﬁrot of Chokmah (Wisdom).''
''Aralim: Supposedly made of ﬁre and ice (from Psalms 104:1-4), the Aralim (also known as the Erelim or “the valiant ones”) exist to ceaselessly chant the praises of the Lord and rule over grass, trees, fruit, and grain. Michael is commonly said to be of the Aralim Choir.''
''Chasmalim: Also known as the Dominations, the Chasmalim exist in the spiritual world ruled over by Metatron and regulate the duties of other angels, as well as govern the manifestation of God’s majesty.''
''Seraphim: Except for the change in rank, the seraphim in Jewish tradition are unchanged.''
''Malachim: Known also as the “Virtues”, the Malachim are the kings or rulers of Heaven and it is from their ranks that Satan Fell. The Malachim work God’s miracles on earth.''
''Elohim: The “gods” mentioned in the Old Testament, the elohim is the name used for God’s messengers, or the Angelic Choir.''
''Bene Elohim: The “sons of God” are blessed to forever sing ineffable songs of praise to God. It is believed that it was the Bene Elohim that gave rise to the Nephilim.''
''Kerubim: The Kerubim from Psalms 18:10 are the steeds of God, but are otherwise unchanged from the Cherubim.''
''Ishim: Composed of white ﬁre, the Ishim extol the virtues of God and reside in the Fifth Heaven, but are otherwise the same as the Thrones.''
''Angels are ubiquitous and ﬁll nearly every space in creation, from the realm of purgatory, to the kingdoms of Mythic Europe and the halls of Heaven. Only in areas speciﬁcally aligned with another realm — those areas with a non-Divine aura or regio — are angels not present.''

==Other Hierarchies==


|}
''them blessed, is God, by whom they were created; and the participation in his life and the contemplation of his beauty is their never-failing joy.''
''St. Augustine, City of God,''
''Book X, Chapter 22''
''All angels share certain traits to do with their spiritual natures and innate holiness. However, each hierarchy of angels also shares certain characteristics. This includes minimum Divine Might levels, inherent powers, and consistent Personality Traits.''

===Angelic Traits===

''All angels possess at least one point of Divine Might and may not be afﬁliated or belong to any other realm other than the Divine.''
''All angels possess the Personality Trait “Love of God” +5.''
''All angels may, at any time, become the divine conduit for a miracle, allowing them to enact the Will of God.''
''No angel will break any commandment or divine law, or act against its nature.''

===Angelic Powers===

''All angels possess the following powers: Angelic Mantle, 2 points, +12, Corpus: Angels use this power to manifest in the mundane world and appear to take on mortal ﬂesh. In reality, this form is entirely formed from their intellect, but appears and acts exactly like real ﬂesh. While in this “material” form, they must follow the mundane world’s Natural Laws, and so are limited, with Characteristic and Soak scores, and Fatigue and Wound levels. Although Angels are genderless, their Mantles are almost always that of a man''
''(unless they have a speciﬁc ability to take on other forms); while in their Mantle, angels may breed, and sire or bear children (although no angel has done so since the ﬂood), although they do not age. If they are “killed” while in their Mantle, they return to their spiritual form, but may if they chose (and have the necessary Might Points) immediately use this power again. An angel’s Mantle may appear as anything.''
''Enfolding, 2 or 10 points, +10, Vim: When the pious are in danger or torment, the angel may grant them comfort, imparting a moment of peace and mercy. This power renders the target’s soul wholly safe and protected for a short time. While Enfolded, the target’s soul (and mind) may not be targeted by any supernatural power of any kind. This power only lasts for a few scant moments, but for the target it is timeless and can seem to stretch to a lifetime. An angel may also Enfold a person’s body (costing 10 Might points), rendering him completely invulnerable to magic, pain, damage, fatigue, wounds, or death, although this power only lasts for a very short period of time (no longer than one combat round). This power is most often used on a member of the faithful who is about to be martyred or suffer terribly.''
''Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, +0, Mentem: This power allows angels to appear in the dreams of a target, or even while awake, and impart a Divine message. This is different from a miraculous vision, which occurs through direct Divine agency. An Envisioning that takes place while the target is awake costs ﬁve points and may seem like a day dream, or a vivid or frightening vision, depending on what message the angel intends. Anyone may be the target of Envisioning, pious or impious, pagan or infernalist. Envisioning may occur over any distance.''

===Angelic Characteristics===

''Angels are creatures of pure intellect and reason, but they are not infallible. Furthermore, some angels are obviously superior to others, such as the seraphim over all other angels. Without using their Angelic Mantle power, angels can only interact with the physical world through their Powers; they have no traits other than their non-physical Characteristics. When in Heaven, the great angels (the top three Choirs) have Characteristics and Abilities so great as to be meaningless; while on earth in their Mantle however, unless by Divine Will, they are somewhat more limited.''
''Angels’ non-physical Characteristics (Intelligence, Perception, Presence, and Communication) are determined by their Divine Might score. Angels with 1-10 Divine Might have a +1 in all non-physical Characteristics; angels with 11-20 Divine Might have +2 in all non-physical Characteristics, and so on. Extremely powerful angels with a Divine Might score of 90 therefore have +9 in their non-physical Characteristics. Physical characteristics (Stamina, Strength, Dexterity, and Quickness) for an angel’s Mantle are determined by the normal point-buy laid out in Ars Magica 5th Edition, page 30 (7 points to spend, although particularly powerful angels should have more).''

===Angelic Free Will===

''All angels possess free will as an essential part of their nature. Without free will, Satan could never have fallen, and the third of the Heavenly Host could not have followed. Unlike mankind, angels are creatures of pure intellect. This purity grants them the ability to act with complete freedom and judgment, enhanced by their proximity to the Divine Essence.''
''Because angels are entirely beings of goodness and holiness; however, they always act in accordance with their knowledge of the Will of God. Angels are perfectly good, so the free choices they make are also perfectly good. For this reason, angels do not seek worship and will correct anyone who does attempt to do so. They do not answer direct prayers, but are often asked by saints to intercede on the saint’s behalf (the Blessed Virgin Mary does this a lot, since she has so many requests for aid) and many angels will assist someone worthy of help.''
''An angel, unless directly acting on God’s behalf, is still fallible. Thus, angels can be wounded or even destroyed. Angels are not truly immortal, and in the past a few angels have had their existence ended in battle with demons or diabolists, or even saints and prophets.''
''Theoretically an angel could decide to disobey God and thereby Fall, but that has only happened at one time in Existence. All remaining angels have already made their decision and remain in Heaven.''

===Angelic Senses===

''Angels do not have senses as a human would understand it. Rather, they gain a''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Updating the Bestiary==

''There are two divine beings listed in Chapter 13 of Ars Magica 5th Edition: Lupersus and Seferiel. Lupersus is merely a divine creature rather than an angel, and so has no extra traits. Seferiel belongs to both the Angelic and the Archangel Choirs, and gains the additional traits listed below.''

|}
''direct understanding of their surroundings by virtue of their angelic intellect. It is this awareness that grants them movement and the capability to act.''
''Angels know things directly through their forms rather than relying on species (see Ars Magica 5th Edition, p.79) or sensation. Thus, their knowledge of something is of the complete thing (whether an object, idea, or emotion), rather than lim''
''ited by a body’s senses, although angels may not read someone’s thoughts unless through a speciﬁc power.''
''Angels therefore can “see” in the dark, and can “sense” both an illusion and the truth behind it. Angelic senses cannot be the target of Hermetic (or other) spells or magical powers, since they apprehend with their entire being (although wards may limit the extent of an angel’s “sense”).''
''The only way to stop or hinder an angel from “sensing” something would be to entirely destroy the angel, or trap it in a powerful magical ward.''

===Angelic Movement===

''Angels move without occupying the space between where they are and where they wish to move to. Their movement is instantaneous and they take up no space since they have no body. While in their Mantle, angels may still move instantaneously, but will instead chose to move naturally.''
''An inﬁnite number of angels could therefore move simultaneously to occupy the head of a pin, although since there aren’t an inﬁnite number of angels, and most angels are busy doing other things, they are unlikely to do so.''

===Angelic Language===

''Although angels can perfectly speak all the languages of mankind, they will only do so when in their Mantle and are required to do so out of necessity. Instead, angels communicate directly through a process called “illumination”, a spiritual expression that conveys the essence of their message directly to the soul. This speech has a Penetration of zero (modiﬁed by any Penetration Ability the angel may have), so angels will often have to speak in a human language to magi or people with Magic Resistance.''

===Angelic True Names===

''Each angel has two names, its common name (such as Michael, Uriel, Raphael, etc) and its True Name. This is a kind of supernatural understanding of the being, a long and mystic incantation similar to a Hermetic spell. To comprehend the True Name of an angel (or any being) grants enormous occult power over it. True Names act as indefinite Arcane Connections, and grant a +5 multiplier bonus to a caster’s Penetration multiplier. They may also have other effects when used with Hermetic magic.''
''The True Names of angels are difﬁcult to ﬁnd, but ancient Middle Eastern demonologists, particularly the Zoroastrian Magoi (see Mythic Islam, Characters), managed to discover and record a large number of angelic (and demonic) True Names. Tomes and grimoires may exist with the True Names of''
''even powerful archangels, and are good story hooks to get characters to travel and explore.''

===Angels and Magic===

''Although not completely immune to Hermetic magic, angels are protected against some Hermetic powers. While wearing their Mantle, angels are in “physical” form and can be targeted and warded against by the Form noted next to their Divine Might score. An angel in a purely spiritual form can only be targeted and affected by Mentem or Vim, and has no Wounds or Fatigue levels. Furthermore, angels are entirely immune to magic that would cause them to act in a way contrary to their Personality Traits. Finally, angels can be destroyed permanently by reducing their Divine Might to a negative value. Only a few angels have been destroyed in all of history, and none are known to have met their end through Hermetic magic.''
''Angels cannot be summoned or compelled by magic, although they may choose to answer a Hermetic summons for their own reasons. Other magical traditions, such as Jewish Merkavah, can compel angels to answer a summons, by employing their True Names.''
''Most Hermetic magi are largely unaware of Hermetic magic’s capability to''
''affect angels, holding the common belief being that angels, if not completely immune to Hermetic magic, at least gain signiﬁcant protection from the Limit of the Divine.''

===Angels, Auras, and Regiones===

''An angel automatically knows the type and power of any aura it encounters, due to the nature of its angelic senses, although it is not hindered by them in any way and never suffers a negative effect from them.''
''Angels may enter into divine regiones at will as though they were inhabitants, unless prevented by a morepowerful divine being. To enter the regio of another Realm, the angel must know of its existence. Angels may not accidentally enter a regio, but may be led into or search for one (see Ars Magica 5th Edition, p189.). All angels are considered to have a Second Sight Ability score equal to their Divine Might ÷ 5 for the purposes of ﬁnding non-Divine regiones.''

==Seraphim==

''I saw the Lord seated on a throne, high and exalted, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above Him were seraphs, each with six wings: With two wings they covered their faces, with two they covered their feet, and with two they were flying. And they were calling to one another: “Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty; the whole earth is full of his glory.” At the sound of their voices the doorposts and thresholds shook and the temple was filled with smoke.''
''Isaiah 6:1-4''
''The name “Seraphim” means “to kindle” or “make hot”. For this reason they are often known as the Glowing Ones. As well as having six wings, seraphim also have sixteen faces, four for each cardinal direction (north, south, east and west). Their ceaseless revolution around the Divine wholly puriﬁes them. They are unchangeable and radiant, and emanate an enlightening power. Their mere presence dispels and destroys evil. The Seraphim’s role in Heaven, as the most''
''holy and exalted of all angels, is to give constant and unending praise to God.''

==Cherubim==

''Their entire bodies, including their backs, their hands and their wings, were completely full of eyes, as were their four wheels. I heard the wheels being called “the whirling wheels.” Each of the cherubim had four faces: One face was that of a cherub, the second the face of a man, the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle. Then the cherubim rose upward.''
''Ezekiel 10:12-15''
''Cherubim are the receptors of the highest Divine Wisdom, living in ceaseless contemplation of the beauty and magniﬁcence of God. Their name denotes''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Angelic Minutiae==

''Many Choirs of angels have responsibility or authority over the minor workings of the cosmos, such as forests, cities, or the weather. Such angels, typically Dominations and Authorities, are only present in Divine auras. Although they would like to control (and may once have) every facet of the created world, in areas covered by Magic or Faerie auras these natural functions are assisted by minor spirits of the realm. Angels are less likely to take direct or overt actions regarding their responsibilities, but will instead try to work subtly to protect their charge.''
''A mage disrupting the weather around a church may frustrate the Authorities present in the Divine aura, but those Authorities will not have inﬂuence over the mage’s tempestuous activities in a faerie forest or magical valley (although other spirits found there might object).''

==Seraphim==

''Divine Might: No less than 35 Personality Traits: Honest +4, Tireless''
''+4 Powers: Heavenly Fire, 1 point, +15, Ignem: As''
''Pilum of Fire, although it does +30 damage. Smite Evil, one or more points, +15,''
''Vim: As per Demon’s Eternal Oblivion, with the level of the effect determined by the number of Might Points spent multiplied by 10. This also affects Faeries.''

===Story Hook:===

''The name of Gadiel the seraph is discovered in an old book in the covenant’s library and has the power to ward against devils with less than Infernal Might ten, if inscribed on an amulet or circle. This discovery by the magi makes Gadiel aware of the covenant, and he descends to earth in the form of an old woman to see if the magi of the covenant will use his name wisely or not. If the characters treat Gadiel well, he may aid the covenant, or punish them if they abuse him.''

|}
''an abundance or outpouring of wisdom, as well as “nearness”, and they are therefore known as the Streams of Wisdom. The cherubim were the guardians of the Ark of the Covenant, of the holiest of holies in Solomon’s Temple, and stood guard over the body of Christ during the three days he lay in his tomb.''

==Thrones==

''I lift up my eyes to you, to you whose Throne is in Heaven.''
''Psalm 123:1''
''Untainted by any base or earthly thing, the Thrones dwell most fully in the highest parts of the Divine realm, where they receive the holy radiance of God. Of all angels, the Thrones have the most intimate and immediate knowledge of the Divine, being holy mirrors of God’s sacred brilliance, appearing as gleaming crystal spheres. Because of this, they are responsible for judgment and justice within the Divine realm. Some traditions also have the Thrones as the literal bearers of God’s majesty and glory in Heaven, while others have them as the perfect arbiters of divine justice, dispensing God’s verdicts with absolute objectivity and without fear or favor.''

==Dominations==

''I saw there a very great light, and fiery troops of great''
''archangels, incorporeal forces, and Dominations, orders and governments, Cherubim and Seraphim, Thrones and manyeyed ones, nine regiments, the Ioanit stations of light, and I became afraid …''
''2 Enoch 20:1''
''Angelic Dominations represent freedom from tyranny, vice, and sin. The Dominations are unrestrained by inconstancy or discord. Governance of the Divine realm is their duty: they direct the course of the stars, sun, moon, and seasons, measure all life in Heaven and earth, and order the lesser angels in their holy tasks.''

==Authorities==

''Let every person be subject to the governing Authorities …''
''Romans 13:1''
''Authorities are cosmic angels, who order and regulate all of creation, and are themselves governed by the Dominations. They are the unshakable potency of God''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Cherubim==

''Divine Might: No less than 25 Personality Traits: Contemplative +4,''
''Wise +4 Powers: Divine Insight, 3 points, +0, Mentem:''
''May temporarily grant the target the equivalent of the Clear Thinker, Free Expression, or Inspirational Minor Virtues that lasts until the target next sins. The Chariot, 30 points, +1, Auram: Four''
''Cherubim must use this power (and each must pay for it), which “bows the heavens” and actually allows a direct emanation of the Divine realm to enter into the mundane world, enfolding the target. In so doing, the target is entirely purified, restored to a state of sinless perfection and nearness to God such as was enjoyed by Adam and Eve before the Fall. This removes all Warping, Decrepitude, and Aging Points; increases the target’s Intelligence, Perception, Presence, and Communication to +3 (if it is lesser); or increases the character’s True Faith Score by 1. Cherubim rarely use this power and only upon the holiest and most pious of mortals.''

===Story Hook:===

''A character with True Faith, a high godly Personality Trait, or potent holy power is visited by the cherub Lawidh as a test of faith. This may be a chance for the character to increase his True Faith, or even gain it. The cherub takes the character to the Gates of Heaven and there offers him a mighty kingdom to rule over as absolute sovereign (or some other tempting offer). If the character refuses the temptation, then Lawidh may use the Chariot on the character.''
''Divine Might: No less than 25 Personality Traits: Knowledgeable +4,''
''Stern +4 Powers: Deliverance of the Righteous, 5 points, +10,''
''Corpus: Instantly transports a group of worshippers to safety. This power is only used to beneﬁt a group of faithful who are in mortal danger from their enemies. Divine Justice, 3 points, +1, Mentem: The''
''Throne learns the truth and most just judgment of any case brought before it. Thrones often use this power before using Radiant Mirror. Radiant Mirror, 30 points, +0, Auram:''
''The Throne may reﬂect a part of the Primal Divine Light to some part of creation, which increases the Divine aura by two points and infuses it with a Just Temper. This aura acts like other created, unattended Divine auras, and fades after some time. The Holy Influence''
''Total of a Throne using this power is equal to his Divine Might ÷ 2 (see Divine Auras and Blessed by God, Holy Inﬂuence).''

===Story Hook:===

''Two immensely powerful dragons are locked in a bitter dispute over the ownership of a regio located near to the covenant that appears once every century, and which is required by the dragons to lay their eggs in. They threaten to destroy (or severely damage) the covenant in their ﬁght unless a higher power can be brought in to conciliate. Investigation into the covenant’s past reveals that the only being powerful enough to settle this dispute would be a Throne, but ﬁnding a way to involve the Throne who intervened last time involved petitioning a saint. How will the characters stop the dragons from running amok?''

==Thrones==


|}
''welling forth throughout existence. Authorities are blessed by Divine Illumination, allowing them to ﬂawlessly undertake their tasks. From the smallest ﬂower and gossamer breeze, to the sun, the planetary spheres, and the changing of the seasons, the Authorities work through God’s resplendent ordinance. Authorities also instill the mundane intellectual, moral, and theological virtues into human hearts; for this reason, these angels are also known as “Virtues”. Due to their role of regulating creation, it is the Authorities who most often are God’s miraculous agents, and so they are closely connected to saints. Since they sustain''
''and watch over the natural world, they are likely to take note of signiﬁcant Hermetic meddling with the weather or other natural phenomena in areas covered by the Dominion, although their reactions need not necessarily be hostile. Authorities (and Potentates) often reside in Divine Celestial regiones (see Divine Regiones).''

==Potentates==

''Whosoever therefore resists the Powers, resists the ordinance of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Divine Might: No less than 5* Personality Traits: Principled +4, Unwa''
''vering +4 Powers: Divine Authority, 0 points, +0, Varies: An''
''Authority has absolute knowledge and command over a single aspect of creation, which deﬁnes his divine ofﬁce. This can be as small as a single blade of grass or insigniﬁcant pebble, to a river, meadow, mountain, cloud or storm, a beam of light, a thunder clap, or even stars, planets, the sun, or the entire sky. All distinct things in a Divine Aura have an Authority; things in other auras have other supernatural creatures to govern and''
''protect them, such as elementals or minor faeries. This power is used to ensure the natural function of the Authority’s charge; were the Authority not to use this power, the thing would wither or even cease to exist.''
''*The Divine Might score of an Authority should reﬂect its ofﬁce. An Authority responsible for a ﬂower may have Divine Might 5, while an Authority responsible for a thunder storm or a mountain has a Might of 15 or 20. The Authority who oversees the sun, Galgilliel, has a Divine Might of 70, and the Authority responsible for winter, Amabael, has a Divine Might of 40.''

===Story Hook:===

''The local lord plans to start logging a grove near one of his villages to make room for more ﬁelds, but unbeknownst to the lord, the grove is guarded by the Authority Horobael. Horobael’s attempts at Envisioning have failed to change the lord’s mind, so now the Authority seeks the help of a pious character from the covenant in saving the grove. This could include the many other Authorities who protect other parts of the grove becoming involved.''

==Authorities==

''Divine Might: No less than 10 Personality Traits: Commanding +4,''
''Servile –4 Powers: Divine Direction, 0 or 5 points, +0, Vim: A''
''Domination may command any being with Divine Might equal to or less than its own to perform any task, use any of its powers, or reveal any information that it may possess. A Domination may also command any being aligned to the Divine Realm (such as someone with True Faith or Holy Powers) to do likewise by spending ﬁve Might. This power must overcome any magic resistance. Liberate the Sinful, 5 points, +0, Mentem:''
''This power permanently removes a Personality Trait from the target.''
''Dominations only use this power to remove sinful or destructive Personality Traits. The target may never possess that Personality Trait again, even through magic. (If your troupe is not using Personality Traits, this power acts like the sacrament of Baptism.)''

===Story Hook:===

''A stream that supplies a village near the covenant with water stops ﬂowing, after a diabolist traps the Domination in a powerful infernal cage. This angel measured the stream’s course, and without it the village may be driven into desperation and famine. The local lord asks the magi of the covenant to somehow get the stream to ﬂow again.''

|}
''Dominations Potentates''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Divine Might: No less than 10 Personality Traits: Harmonious +4,''
''Loving +4 Powers: Divine Balance, 1 or more points, +1,''
''Varies: Through this power, the Potentate is able to intervene in a diabolical plot to cause someone to sin. If a devil creates a sinful desire in someone’s mind, this power allows the Potentate to create a virtuous thought in his mind. The cost of the power is equal to the cost of the diabolical power it is opposing. Mysterious Path, 4 points, +0, Varies:''
''The Potentate may create a path between any two locations that may be instantaneously traversed by a non-angelic being, such as a human or animal. The two locations may be as far apart or close together as the Potentate desires.''

===Story Hook:===

''When struggling against some diabolical enemy and facing immanent defeat, the characters are rescued by an unknown warrior garbed as a knight. The knight offers to help the covenant in the future against infernal attacks, and slowly encourages more-pious behavior in the covenant’s companions and grogs.''

|}
''God, and those who resist shall receive for themselves damnation.''
''Romans 13:2''
''Before the Fall, Lucifer numbered among the Potentates (albeit of Archangel rank), who are also known as “Powers”. Many fallen angels were once Potentates, and the remaining Potentates have since taken up the most active role in combating diabolical presence in creation. They do this through strengthening the resolve and piety of humans and helping them resist sinful thoughts. Potentates keep the divine paths safe, and maintain cosmic balance and form, along with the''
''archangels, the chief contingent of the Divine Host that will be fielded on Judgment Day. If they do not reside in Heaven, Potentates can be found in celestial regiones, from where they assist mortals in resisting evil.''

==Principalities==

''In the heavenly places, far above all Principalities, and Powers, and Authorities, and Dominions, and every name that is named, not only in this world,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Principalities==

''Divine Might: Not less than 5 Personality Traits: Bureaucratic + 4,''
''Regal +4 Powers: Incalculable Strength of Heaven, 5 or more''
''points, +0, Vim: Invested with Godlike authority, a Principality can command lesser powers to ﬂee from those under God’s protection for a day (sunrise to sunrise). Principalities may banish all nonDivine creatures who are in the angel’s domain, which prevents them from entering the area or remaining in it for the duration of the power. This affects any creature with a Might score that is not Divine Might, but not creatures merely aligned with particular Realm. The number of Might points spent is determined by the size of the area being affected. A family costs 5 Might points, a hamlet or village costs 10, a town or city costs 15, a duchy costs 20, a kingdom or nation costs 30, and an empire, such as Byzantium or the Islamic Caliphate, costs 40 points. The Penetration score for this power is doubled against beings with Infernal Might. Sway the Hearts of Man, 10 or more''
''points, +0, Mentem: Principalities inculcate spiritual and holy thoughts in hundreds and even thousands of minds. This operates in a similar fashion to Tempering a Divine Aura (see Blessed By God, Holy Inﬂuence), except the temper created by the Principality is additional to any invoked by another party. The temper is chosen by the Principality and has a value of +2. The number of Might points spent is the same as for Incalculable Strength of Heaven. Spending an additional 5 Might increases the temper by one. This power can only affect areas and people under a Divine Aura.''

===Story Hook:===

''In their dealings with the local townsfolk, the characters notice a signiﬁcant change of attitude towards the covenant. Has the town’s Principality turned the people against them, and what can they do to make amends?''
''The four most famous Archangels, Michael, Raphael, Uriel, and Gabriel, are among the most powerful beings in creation. Islam recognises only Michael, Gabriel, Israfel, and Azrael as archangels. Although Dionysus the Areopagite lists the archangels as Michael, Gabriel, Raphael, Uriel, Chamuel, Zadkiel, and Jophiel, the Church is moving towards recognizing only Michael, Gabriel, and Raphael. Other lists include Metatron, Zerachiel, Remiel, Satqiel, Baraqiel, and Sidriel.''
''There are seven princes of Heaven — the ruling archangels, who preside over the seven Heavens — but the Host of Archangels includes the ruling angels of all the Angelic Choirs, as well as others who form Heaven’s vanguard. Archangels are not omnipotent, although many, like Michael and Gabriel, come close; even the truly fearsome Azrael was almost destroyed by the patriarch Elijah, and was only saved by direct intervention from God.''
''Israfel: The Angel of the Trumpet and of Last Judgement, Israfel (who is a Seraph) will end the world by blowing on an awesome trumpet while standing on the holy rock in Jerusalem. A master of music, Israfel’s breath was used by the Lord to give life to the Choir of Angels. He is so compassionate that he looks into Hell six times a day and is struck by such terrible remorse that he weeps endlessly, so much so that the Lord must miraculously prevent the tears from ﬂooding the earth.''
''Metatron: Once the humble patriarch Enoch (called Idris in the Qur’an), the Metatron was blessed by God with 1,365,000 blessings and is now the angel of the Face of the Lord; he is also the''
''King of Angels and Chancellor of Heaven. A being of living ﬂame, he possesses 36 pairs of wings and 365,000 eyes, and is among the three largest beings in existence (next to Anaﬁel and Sandalphon). Metatron is the only angel (except perhaps Gabriel) to rival Michael in power, and has no other Choir than the Archangel Choir.''
''Raphael: The best loved of all angels, Raphael (“God has healed”) is the Regent of the Sun, head of the guardian angels and is from the Cherubim Choir. Raphael’s special responsibility is to protect and nurture the spirit of humanity, but he also journeys throughout creation to heal the sick and ease injuries.''
''Uriel: The “ﬁre (or light) of God”, Uriel is a Seraph and Archangel of the Presence. As the Patron of Prophecy, he appeared to Noah to warn of the Flood. Uriel is the clear-eyed angel of terror that watches over the torments administered in Hell. Venerated in some parts of Italy and France as St. Uriel, he was removed from the list of angels recognized by the Western Church by Pope Zachary in 745.''
''While the higher Choirs are hidden and mysterious, the archangels are Divine Glory manifest. They completely embody the unending power of God’s Will, being direct participants of unadulterated Godly Light, eternally shining with rays so undimmed that they overshadow even the sun. Archangels are the vanguard of the Lord’s Host, who will take up arms upon Judgment Day to war against the forces of Hell. An archangel possesses the traits listed in the Archangel stat block opposite, in addition to those enjoyed by their original Choir.''

==Angelic Princes==


|}
''but also in that which is to come.''
''Ephesians 1:20-21''
''Principalities watch over human affairs, chieﬂy mortal nations, kingdoms,''
''cities, and geographical regions. Every social unit, from a family to a village, duchy, and empire has a Principality empowered to protect, guide, and care for it. They are the guardian angels of groups of people, moving many hearts and minds towards divine ends, rather than merely''
''individuals. They do so by encouraging prayer and devout behavior, and respect for the law and for religious leaders. Once upon a time each nation of the world, from Rome to Babylon, had a Principality as its guardian, but when the Fall came all but the Principality of Israel sided with the Devil. There are Principalities for all nations, even those not yet created, and only the Principalities with authority over nations during the heyday of the kingdom of Israel Fell. The remaining Principalities now largely concentrate on mortal leaders, guiding kings and sheriffs towards godliness.''

==Archangels==

''Yet Michael the Archangel, when contending with the Devil he disputed about the body of Moses, dared not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, “The Lord rebuke thee”.''
''Jude 1:9''
''Although the eighth Choir, Archangels are among the holiest and most princely of all angels. Some of Heaven’s most majestic figures are archangels, such as Michael and Gabriel. More so than the other angelic hierarchies, the role of archangel is titular rather than being tied to the angel’s essence, so a cherub or seraph may hold the ofﬁce of archangel, while some archangels were created and exist entirely within the Choir. Archangels are Heaven’s leaders. Majestic Divinity is mystically joined to the archangels; each one is illuminated by God’s sovereignty over all of creation. For''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Divine Might: No less than 50 Personality Traits: Radiant +4, Rational +4 Powers: Irresistible Light, 20 points, +20, Vim:''
''Through this power, the Archangels do battle against all the forces of darkness. When invoking this power, the Archangel is ﬁlled with the Power of God and radiates a portion of unrestrained Light from the Divine Realm, blasting away sin and searing evil. This beam of light strikes everyone who can sense the Archangel, doing +40 damage to all non-Divine beings (doubled against creatures with Infernal Might), and stripping non-Divine beings of 10 points of Might. Beings reduced to negative Might points are permanently destroyed. This power may affect any or all beings the Archangel is aware of, and has a Penetration equal to the Archangel’s full Might Score, not reduced in the normal way. Inﬁnite Divisibility, 0 points +0, Vim: With''
''this power an Archangel may simultaneously be anywhere and everywhere it is needed without decreasing its power in the slightest, by allowing the Archangel to divide itself into as many perfect and self''
''aware copies as it desires, each with its own independent Divine Might Score, permitting it to attend to all of its many duties at once. The copies are self-aware and independent, are constantly aware of what every other copy is doing and sensing, never argue with each other, and each will re-merge with its other copies without hesitation when its task is fulﬁlled. In this way, Michael can stand before the Gates of Heaven, protect the body of Moses, bear God’s Throne, and personally watch over his innumerable mountain shrines.''

===Story Hook:===

''During the Grand Tribunal, the Archangel Seferiel (see Ars Magica 5th Edition, Chapter 13, Bestiary), watcher of the Order of Hermes, appears before the assembled magi to warn them of a dire threat that could devastate Europe (this could be a purely magical threat, a mundane one such as the imminent invasion of the Mongols, or the potential threat to the Order posed by the recently formed Dominicans and emerging Papal Inquisition).''

==Archangels==


|}
''this reason, archangels are of a higher rank in Heaven than even the Seraphim or Dominations.''

==Angels==

''Angels, the messengers of God, are the most omnipresent servants of the Divine. Theologians have calculated the number of angels to exceed some two hundred and sixty-six million, although the exact number can never be known and may be even more, since every living soul has its own guardian angel. Angels are the caretakers of humanity and the world. They are made in imitation of God and far surpass humans as intellectual and virtuous beings. They are radiant and exist in abundant communication with Him. It is the role of the ninth Angelic Hierarchy to turn humans towards the Divine, to elevate their spirits, and care for their souls. When their charge dies, they comfort him and lead the soul to its reward (or punishment).''

==Grigori, the Watchers==

''…for in his days the angels of the Lord descended to the earth, those who are named the Watchers, that they should instruct the children of man, and that they should do judgement and uprightness on the earth.''
''Jubilees 4:15-16''
''The Watchers (“grigori” in Hebrew) are the mysterious tenth Choir, also known as the “Sons of God”, who remained neutral during the War in Heaven, and were cast to Earth rather than Hell. Their decline from Grace came after they walked among the children of Seth and bred with mortals. Refused Heaven but not condemned to Hell, the grigori are masters of lore and earthly knowledge and now wander the Earth in shame, disguised as mortals in the hope that they can escape the notice of angels and other divine beings.''
''Now only 200 in number, the Watchers still serve a Divine purpose by spreading holy wisdom and knowledge, although they are no longer accorded a place in the Heavenly Hierarchy. When they were cast to earth, they were permanently trapped in their Angelic''
''Mantle. Now if they are “slain”, unless they have enough Divine Might to immediately create another Mantle, they are killed permanently.''
''Some Hermetic magi believe that the Grigori were responsible for teaching mankind the art of magic and that the Watchers were transformed into powerful magical spirits, becoming the pagan gods (or Old Ones), the source of elementals, and even dragons. It is widely believed that some Grigori completed the Fall and now serve Hell as powerful devils.''

==Storyguiding Angels==

''They will be as the angels of God in Heaven''
''Matthew 22:30''
''Angels, as Divine creatures and the direct servants of God are unique roleplaying challenges. They are perfect creatures with a near-complete understanding of the Divine Plan. They are majestic, holy, mysterious, resplendent, and spiritual. How can you, as a storyguide, do them justice? How can angels be used for your saga? Are they merely plot tools, or are they characters in their own right?''

==Story Uses for Angels==

''Angels are the ultimate deus ex machina. They can appear to save the day, get the players’ characters out of trouble, or give them vital information on how to defeat a demon terrorizing the countryside. They also often appear on earth as normal humans, working more subtly.''

===As Characters===

''Angels are not much fun as player characters. They are constrained in what they can do and say. They are perfect beings with no goals, desires, or wants other than to serve and love God. There are no politics in Heaven, no adventures, no dramas or personality conﬂicts; there is only endless and perfect harmony.''
''Far from the ﬂawed and angst-ridden characters from other roleplaying games or popular comics and movies, angels in Mythic Europe are glorious, sacred individuals with a clear and holy purpose. They do not complain, bicker, or ﬁght among themselves, but carry out their solemn duty with joy and love.''
''Angels often take on the Mantle of a seemingly innocuous character, and integrate themselves into society. An angel could inﬁltrate a covenant and become one of the supporting cast, offering advice or assistance to the grogs or companions. Alternatively, an angel could serve as an antagonist, trying to stop a covenant’s impious ways or convince it to act more devoutly.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Divine Might: At least 1 Personality Traits: Loving +4, Compassionate +4 Powers: Divine Guidance, 1 point, +1, Mentem:''
''With this power, the angel may modify by 3 (plus or minus) any Personality Trait roll that could result in the target acting virtuously or piously. Heavenly Servant, 1 point, +5, Vim:''
''Through this power, the angel may double all of its traits when opposing or battling against a being with Infernal Might. This does not include the angel’s Might point total, but does include the angel’s''
''Magic Resistance. This power lasts for the duration of the conﬂict.''

===Story Hook:===

''An angel disguised as a scholar asks for help in tracking down the tears of the Sandalphon, which fell to earth when the prophet Muhammad died. The two tears are powerful divine relics and are also being hunted by a diabolical coven, which wants to use the tears as arcane connections to Sandalphon and prevent him from carrying the prayers of the faithful to Heaven.''

==Angels==


|}
''Some angels take an interest in the occult and magical arts, such as the Archangel Seferiel (Ars Magica 5th Edition, page 198), and so follow the actions of Hermetic magi, while others may be present in the noble or ecclesiastical courts, advising and guiding dukes or bishops. Angels may also offer assistance if the characters are troubled by an infernal menace, such as demonic attack or diabolical plague.''
''Guardian angels or angels with an interest in a community (such as a monastery) or domain (such as a barony or ﬁef) may take human form and walk among the inhabitants. Unless there is dire need, such angels will rarely use their divine powers; they prefer to guide mortals into performing holy acts of their own will.''
''Angels will always reward kindhearted behavior shown towards them, and punish cruelty; you never know if the person you are dealing with is an angel in disguise, so it pays to be nice.''

===As Hooks===

''The easiest way to use angels in a story is as a hook (see Ars Magica 5th Edition, p.212). An angel could request (disguised as a human or in an Envisioning) that the characters perform a task for him as the impetus of a story, or appear to answer a prayer and give the characters a much-needed clue to solve a mystery. Each Angelic Choir includes a story hook as an example.''
''Angels can also be melodramatic sources of information or unanswered questions. Talking with an angel, particularly during an Envisioning or when summoned through Merkavah, is likely to include:''
''• Dire prophecies; • Impossible quests; • Inexplicable instructions; • Inscrutable silence; • Insults and derision; • Joyous foretelling; • Praises to God; • Statements that sound profound but''
''are otherwise incomprehensible; • Strange tales; and • Warm salutations.''

===As Symbols===

''By the twelfth century, there were some attempts to equate the nine Angelic Choirs with hierarchies in mortal society.''
''It is believed among some Christians that when a soul goes to Heaven, it can be placed alongside the equivalent Choir. Contemplative monks and priests would stand beside the highest Angelic Orders, while pious kings would ﬁnd themselves with the Principalities and Thrones.''
''Angels are also representative of ideals or things, such as Hope or the renewal of Spring, and so could appear figuratively in a story to foreshadow something; or vice versa, as mundane things symbolize the presence or intervention of an angel. A dream of Azrael could herald a signiﬁcant death, while a lion prowling near the covenant could indicate that a Throne or Cherubim has taken interest in the activities of the magi.''

==Portraying Angels==

''Angels may be near-perfect, but they are not infallible. They have a deep understanding of the Divine, but are not privy to the secret knowledge of God, and do not know the future or anything they have not experienced or “sensed”. Angels can make mistakes, overor under-estimate someone, and be outwitted or fooled. It is just that it is unlikely for this to happen.''
''Angels will most likely appear in your saga in one of two ways: either in the splendorous raiment of an Envisioning, or clothed in their Mantles. Most Guardian Angels (Ars Magica 5th Edition, page 43) communicate with their charges through Envisioning.''
''When appearing in a vision, angels are awe-inspiring and frightening, and often connected to strange or alien imagery and symbolism. Read the quoted biblical passages and look through both Testaments and the Qur’an. Angels appear to give speciﬁc messages, bestow advice, and to dispense Divine judgment.''
''Angels may also appear as normal people. When they do this, their angelic nature is hidden. They act and seem like a normal person in every way. Unless some extraordinary circumstance forces their hand, they will rarely break this disguise, and so their conduct is entirely mundane. If one appears as a wise old washer woman or a valiant knight, then nothing it does should make it seem as anything other than a washer woman or knight. In this case, an angel can be played like any other non-player character.''

==Example Angels==


==Asuryal, Herald of Deliverance==

''The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him, and he delivers them.''
''Psalms 34:7''
''Choir: Principality Divine Might: 10 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +1,''
''Com +1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: +0 Age: n/a (35) Conﬁdence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Inspirational Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Persuasive +3, Radiant +1 Reputations: Advisor 3 (Local), Herald 2''
''(among Christian and Jewish Theologians) Combat: Fist: Init +5, Attack 14, Defense 14,''
''Damage 14 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: [Area] Lore 6 (politics), Artes''
''Liberales 5 (rhetoric), Awareness 5 (conversations), Brawl 2 (fists), Charm 7 (nobles), Civil and Canon Law 5 (noble rights), Dominion Lore 7 (angels), Etiquette 8 (courts), Folk Ken 7 (nobles), Guile 6 (nobles), Intrigue 7 (nobles), Single Weapon 1 (dagger), Theology 7 (salvation) Powers: Blessing, variable, +10, by effect: As per the''
''Blessing holy power (see Blessed By God, Miraculous Effects), with the Divine Might cost determined by the Blessing level /10. Equipment: Clothes, other items needed''
''to maintain his disguise. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 1 pawn of Mentem. Appearance: Asuryal appears as a mild''
''mannered man of middle years, typically dressed in modest clothes of''
''whatever region he is in. He possesses wise eyes, and when in particularly powerful Divine auras, his skin appears luminescent.''
''Asuryal is the Principality who guards the domain of the mundane lord closest to the character’s covenant. He has taken the form of a minor advisor to the lord, and, although he makes no overt divine actions to aid the aristocrat, Asuryal counsels the lord and those around him. Asuryal need not be hostile to the player’s magi or the inhabitants of the covenant, but he will oppose any attempts to endanger the lord’s rule, and may even ask for the aid of other angels.''

==Azrael, the Archangel of Death==

''Divine Might: 90 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +9, Per +9, Pre +9,''
''Com +9, Str +15, Sta +10, Dex +10, Qik +10 Size: +2 Age: n/a Conﬁdence Score: 7 (50) Virtues and Flaws: Piercing Gaze Personality Traits: Just +3, Love of God''
''+5, Unrelenting +3 Reputations: Angel of Death 5 (among''
''Jews, Christians and Muslims), Unrelenting 5 (among Jews, Christians and Muslims) Combat: Poisoned Long Spear: Init +13, Attack +29,''
''Defense +27, Damage +22 (The spear bears a deadly poison; if any damage is scored, after Soak is subtracted, the target dies instantly. Note that both the spear and the poison are natural, because God made them that way, and thus not magically resisted.) Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0/0, –1/–1/–1,''
''–3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-7), –3 (8-14), –5''
''(15-21), Incapacitated (22-28) Abilities: Awareness 10 (souls), Dominion''
''Lore 15 (angels), Great Weapon 15 (long Spear), Hunt 15 (tracking), Leadership 10 (intimidate), Theology 15 (angelology) Powers: Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Azrael''
''can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically.''
''Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus:''
''Azrael can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change. Extract Soul: Not applicable in game terms.''
''Azrael extracts the souls of the Islamic dead when they die, placing them in the grave with their bodies. Equipment: Robes, poisoned long spear Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 20 pawns of Perdo in the spear. Appearance: A massive, powerfully built''
''man, with pale skin and black hair, dressed in dark robes. He carries a spear.''
''Azrael (‘Azra’il or ‘Izra’il in Islam) is not the only angel of death, but he is both the chief angel of death and one of the archangels. He is also the most physically strong of the angels. He will never be encountered by characters in his natural form, for he is truly immense; it is said that if all the waters on the earth were poured on his head, not a drop would touch the ground, while his 70,000 feet span the heavens. Thus he is most likely to be encountered in the form described here. Azrael’s special charge is the extraction of the souls of prophets, but he may be encountered collecting the souls of others. Characters would be well advised not to hinder him in his work, though, for he can be merciless if provoked.''

==Camuel, the Dark Angel==

''And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day. And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob’s thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.''
''Genesis 32:24-25''
''Choir: Throne Divine Might: 30 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +3,''
''Com +3, Str +5, Sta +5, Dex +5, Qik +5 Size: +1 Age: n/a (35) Conﬁdence Score: 3 (12) Virtues and Flaws: Enduring Constitu''
''tion, Long-winded, Tough''
''Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Repentant +4, Relentless +3, Quarrelsome –2 Reputations: Comforter 2 (among Chris''
''tian and Jewish Theologians) Combat: Fist: Init +5, Attack +14, Defense +14,''
''Damage +14 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-6), –3 (7-12), –5''
''(13-18), Incapacitated (19-24) Abilities: Athletics 8 (endurance), Aware''
''ness 6 (at night), Brawl 9 (wrestling), Dominion Lore 9 (angels), Etiquette 8 (divine court), Israel Lore 9 (history), Theology 9 (election) Powers: Blessing, variable, +10, by effect: As per the''
''Blessing holy power (Holy Powers, Powers and Effects), with the Divine Might cost determined by the Blessing level ÷ 10. Camuel has been known to aid pious faithful in great need. Comfort the Righteous, 5 points, +0, Mentem:''
''Alleviates all doubt, worry, and fear of dire future events; this also dispels any negative mind-affecting supernatural effect or spell. Unrelenting Struggle, 0 points (1 point), Init''
''+5, Corpus: By invoking this power, Camuel is able to ﬁght without break or respite for a single night (from sunset to sunrise), and does not lose Fatigue levels for any reason. By touching someone and spending 1 Divine Might point, Camuel may impart this power to that person. Equipment: None. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 2 pawns of Corpus in each hand, 2''
''pawns of Intellego in tongue. Appearance: Camuel appears to be a tall,''
''muscular — if unassuming — man of indeterminate age. He has deep shadows around his eyes, and his tongue shines like silver.''
''Camuel (‘he who sees God’) is the mysterious ﬁgure who wrestled with the patriarch Jacob (detailed in Genesis 32:24-30), although some traditions say that it was Michael or Uriel who fought that night. Camuel is an important, if little-known angelic ﬁgure with a sad past. Although Camuel visited Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane with Gabriel, he fell from his exalted position as an archangel when he attempted to prevent Moses from receiving the Torah. For this inexplicable decision, God allowed Moses the ability to strip away Cameul’s angelic''
''glory and might, leaving him much reduced. He now serves as a mediator of the faithful, taking prayers before the other Princes of Heaven.''

==Eiael, Aid to the Wise==

''They plot mischief while on their beds; they are set on a way that is not good; they do not reject evil.''
''Psalms 36:4''
''Choir: Angel Divine Might: 20 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +2,''
''Com +2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: n/a (60) Conﬁdence Score: 2 (10) Personality Traits: Love of God +5, Wise''
''+4, Patient +3, Rebellious –3 Reputations: Guide to the Wise 1 (among''
''Christian and Jewish Theologians) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack 0, Defense 0, Damage 0 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Ars Notoria 7 (appropriate use),''
''Artes Liberales 7 (ceremonial magic), Civil and Canon Law 7 (magic), Concentration 7 (prayer), Dominion Lore 7 (angels), Etiquette 7 (magicians), Magic Lore 7 (human magicians), Medicine 7 (mental illness), Music 7 (harp), Penetration 3 (humans), Philosophiae 7 (ceremonial magic), Teach 7 (magicians), Theology 7 (angels). Powers: Grant Longevity, 10 points, +0, Corpus: By''
''touching the target, Eiael may remove 5 Aging Points from any combination of Characteristics (this may lower the target’s Decrepitude score or raise his Characteristics). Guardian Angel, 5 points, +0, Vim: Eiael''
''can bestow the blessings of a Guardian Angel upon a target (see Ars Magica 5th Edition page 43): +5 Soak and Magic Resistance 15. By doing this, Eiael gains a limited awareness of the target’s thoughts. Holy Magic, 1 or more points, +0, by''
''effect: Eiael can duplicate any effect of Hermetic or holy magic, at a cost of 1 Might Point for every two mag''
''nitudes of the effect. There is no limit, other than his remaining Might Pool, on the number of points he can spend on a single effect. This includes ritual effects, for which he needs neither vis nor long periods of time. Impart Wisdom, 0 points, +0, Mentem: Eiael''
''uses this divine power to teach the practitioners of Ars Notoria, which generates a Teaching Source Quality of 13 (see Mythic Christianity, Ars Notoria; and Ars Magica 5th Edition Chapter 10 Long Term Events, Teaching). Revoke Gifts, 1 point, +30, Mentem: Eiael''
''can revoke the effect of any Ring of Solomon (see Ars Notoria) should the target ever act in a manner contrary to the Divine Will. If this power is used on someone to whom Eiael is connected through the Fourth Ring of Solomon, then this power is always successful and ignores magic resistance. Spirit Form, 3 points, +10, Vim: If threat''
''ened, Eiael can shed his ﬂesh and become pure spirit, making him immune to all physical threats. In this form, Eiael can still communicate with the material world, although his voice is as soft as a whisper. Equipment: Whatever is needed to teach''
''his student. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 1 pawn of Mentem in each eye, 2''
''pawns of Creo in lips. Appearance: Eiael appears as a venerable,''
''yet awe-inspiring old man, with a luminescent white face, silvery beard, and fiery lips. He is dressed in impressive clothes from whatever region he appears in, and carries a satchel containing any number of mysterious books and instruments. If he needs to, Eiael can reduce his angelic glory and appear more mundane.''
''When the angels Harut and Marut revealed the magical arts to humanity, as revealed in the Qur’an (2:102), they were sent with the purpose to tempt the faithful so that the truly righteous would resist and be blessed. After the magical arts passed into human hands, Eiael was tasked with guarding the lovers of wisdom who pursued the magical arts. When Solomon received the Ars Notoria from Michael, Eiael traveled from heaven with the archangel.''
''Eiael is very knowledgeable in all human arts, be they magical or natural, philosophical or theological. He is often''
''the angel who guides practitioners when they reach the Fourth Ring of Solomon (see Mythic Christianity, Ars Notoria), but he may also escort other holy ritualists in their pursuit of holy magic. To this end (and unlike other angels), Eiael is willing to allow himself to be summoned by magicians who are devout and recognize the potential for sin in their magical arts, and may respond to a special magical ritual involving the recitation of Psalm 36. He does not answer a sinful summons.''

==Gabriel, the Archangel of Prophecy==

''Say (O Muhammad, to mankind): Who is an enemy to Jibril! For he it is who hath revealed (this Scripture) to thy heart by Allah’s leave, conﬁrming that which was (revealed) before it, and a guidance and glad tidings to believers.''
''— Qur’an 2:97''
''Divine Might: 100 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +10, Per +10, Pre''
''+10, Com +10, Str +8, Sta +8, Dex +8, Qik +8 Size: 0 Age: n/a Conﬁdence Score: 7 (50) Virtues and Flaws: Good Teacher,''
''Inspirational Personality Traits: Compassionate +3,''
''Intellectual +3, Just +3, Love of God +5, Patient +3 Reputations: Messenger of God 5 (among''
''Jews, Christians and Muslims) Combat: Fist: Init +8, Attack +19, Defense +19,''
''Damage +8 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Awareness 10 (the uneducated),''
''Charm 10 (pupils), Brawl 10 (ﬁst), Leadership 10 (calling attention), Teaching 15 (Theology), all Knowledge at a score of 15 Powers: Enlighten, variable, Init +0, Mentem:''
''Gabriel can implant any Knowledge into the mind of another, at a cost of 1 Might for every experience point implanted. He may not give any character knowledge that takes his Ability score over 15. Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Gabriel''
''can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically. Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus:''
''Gabriel can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change. Equipment: Robes Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 20 pawns of Mentem in head. Appearance: Gabriel usually takes the''
''form of a compassionate, gentle man, sometimes with wings growing from his shoulders or arms.''
''More approachable and intellectually minded than his fellows, the Archangel Gabriel (Jibril or Jabra’il in Islam) is the chief messenger of God, best known for his teaching of the prophet Daniel, his announcing of the incarnation of Christ to the Virgin Mary, and his bringing of the revelation of the Qur’an to Muhammad, for whom he also acted as a constant counsellor. He may be encountered by characters who are seeking wisdom, particularly if this wisdom is of a''
''religious nature. He is most likely to be encountered in the form described here; in his natural form he is a 600-winged ﬁgure who is large enough to stand astride the horizon.''

==Kolazonta, the Chastiser==

''…our father Aaron, armed with the censer, ran through the multitude of the people and conquered the ﬁery angel …''
''4 Maccabees 7:11''
''Choir: Angel Divine Might: 30 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +3, Com''
''+3, Str +2, Sta +5, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Conﬁdence Score: 2 (15) Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity''
''(Fire) Personality Traits: Love of God +5, Grim''
''+4, Remorseless +3 Reputations: Scourge of the Impious 3''
''(among Jews) Combat: Flaming Fist*: Init +1, Attack +6, Defense''
''+6, Damage +7 * This ﬁre is natural and ignores magic''
''resistance, although not Soak from Arts. Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Brawl 4 (ﬁsts), Dominion Lore 6''
''(angels), Theology 6 (sin) Powers: Chastise the Sinful, 5 points, +1, Corpus: As''
''Curse of the Unportended Plague. Cloud form, 0 points, +30, Auram: Can take''
''on the form of a cloud at will, making him immune to all physical attacks (although he may be targeted by Auram spells). Fiery Form, 0 points, +30, Ignem: May''
''become a ﬁery man at will, doing +5 damage to anyone who approaches within 5 feet. Equipment: None. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 4 pawns Corpus throughout body, 2''
''pawns Ignem in veins. Appearance: Kolazonta most often appears as a dark, ominous cloud, but may rarely manifest as a man made of''
''white ﬁre, with veins of ﬂame and eyes of lightning.''
''Kolazonta is one of the angels tasked by the lord to chastise His faithful for their failings, and as such he is a servant of Uriel, the Angel of Punishment. Kolazonta was the angel who brought the plague upon the Israelites (in Numbers 16:46-50) for rebelling against Moses. Aaron defeated Kolazonta after Moses told him it was lifted. Kolazonta is a grim angel who executes the chastisement of the Lord without fear or favor. He is often present amid armies or cities under siege, waiting for the Lord’s command to inﬂict a plague upon the sinful.''

==St. Michael, Captain of the Lord’s Host==

''But I am to tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth. There is no one with me who contends against these princes except Michael, your Prince.''
''Daniel 10:21''
''Choir: Archangel (Seraphim) Divine Might: 100 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +10, Per +10, Pre''
''+10, Com +10, Str +12, Sta +15, Dex +10, Qik +10 Size: +1 Age: n/a Conﬁdence Score: 7 (50) Virtues and Flaws: Entrancement, Greater Immunity (Fire); Animal Ken Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Righteous +5, Dutiful +4, Warlike +3, Watchful +3, Compassionate –1 Reputations: Michael is one of the most''
''well-known saintly and angelic ﬁgures of Mythic Europe; only the Blessed Virgin Mary and the Prophet Muhammad are more respected and honored. Combat: Fiery Great Sword*: Init +12, Attack +31,''
''Defense +31, Damage +36 Great Spear**: Init +13, Attack +28,''
''Defense +29, Damage +19 * The ﬁery nature of Michael’s sword is''
''unaffected by magical resistance. Note also that Michael can wield his Great Sword in only one hand. ** The damage of Michael’s Great Spear is''
''doubled against any being aligned with the Infernal Realm.''
''Soak: +25 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1-6), –1 (7-12), –3''
''(13-18), –5 (19-24), Incapacitated (25-31) Abilities: Animal Ken 10 (lions), Ars''
''Notoria 15 (wisdom), Awareness 12 (war), Church Lore 10 (saints), Concentration 10 (in combat), Dominion Lore 20 (angels), Entrancement 10 (sinners), Great Weapon 15 (Long Spear), Infernal Lore 15 (Hell), Leadership 14 (war), Magic Lore 10 (magic in combat), Penetration 10 (Infernal beings), Philosophiae 15 (moral), Single Weapon 20 (Great Sword), Teach 10 (combat), Theology 15 (angelic duties), Thrown Weapon 12 (Long Spear) Powers: Blessing, variable, +15, varies: As the holy''
''power (Holy Powers, Powers and Effects), with the level of the effect determined by the number of Might Points spent multiplied by 20. Celestial Immunity, 3 points, +15, Corpus:''
''As the saintly miracle (Mythic Christianity, Saints). Command Chaos, 1 point, +15, Mentem:''
''The discordant forces of Chaos are at Michael’s command. He may bring about order (as per Enchantment of Detachment) or create chaos in the hearts of mortals (as per Panic of the Trembling Heart). Create rain, 0 points, +30, Aquam: Michael''
''controls the rains, and can cause it to rain anywhere on earth at will. Heavenly Fire, 1 point, +15, Ignem: As Pilum''
''of Fire, although it does +30 damage when it hits. Heavenly Lance, 1 point, +15, Auram:''
''Michael may cause lightning to strike any point of the earth, even out of a clear sky, as Incantation of Lightning. Smite Evil, variable, +15, Vim: As per''
''Demon’s Eternal Oblivion, with the level of the effect determined by the number of Might Points spent multiplied by 20. This also affects Faeries. The Pious Restored, 1 point, +10, Corpus:''
''May heal any number of Wound levels, any form of disease, and any form of afﬂiction. Equipment: Great ﬁery sword or spear,''
''celestial armor, great shield, weighing scales. Encumbrance: 0 (4) Vis: 10 pawns of Perdo in sword (or''
''spear), 10 pawns of Intellego in scales, 20 pawns of Rego in brow. Appearance: Michael nearly universally''
''appears as an enormous armored war''
''rior, with shining helm, spear or sword like lightning, and a great shield. To the pious and sinners alike, he is a terrifying ﬁgure. He may also appear as a judge of souls, and carries a set of scales with which to judge departed souls.''
''Michael (Mika’il in the Qur’an) is the greatest and most beloved of all archangels, except possibly Gabriel and the Metatron, and was the ﬁrst angel to obey God’s command to worship Adam. He is one of the few angels speciﬁcally named in the holy scriptures, in Daniel (10:13 and 12:1) where he is one of the “chief princes” and guardian of Israel, who (according to St. John’s Revelation 12:7) at Armageddon would lead the angelic charge against the Anti-Christ and the forces of Hell. The epistle of St. Jude also mentions St. Michael’s struggle with the devil over the body of Moses, in which he prevented Satan from violating the patriarch’s tomb. Legend has it that it was at this point that St. Michael threw the rebellious Lucifer into Hell, taking his place as chief of the princes of Heaven, making Michael the most powerful being in creation. Church tradition also states that St. Michael is the angel that “keeps the way of the tree of life” (Genesis 3:24) by standing guard at the gates of paradise, and that he was the angel who appeared to Balaam (Numbers 22:22-35). In Christian convention, he is venerated as a saint who may intercede with God on behalf of the devout faithful, and in Islamic tradition he sits on the right hand of God, opposite Gabriel.''
''Following this, St. Michael’s duties are to lead the battle against the Devil, to appear to the faithful at the hour of their death and offer them salvation, then lead them to judgment, and to protect and guard the chosen of God (which would be people from all three faiths of “the Book”). Although he is warlike, St. Michael is also the patron of the sick and is known as a great healer; he also guards mariners and many mountain tops.''
''St. Michael is an active angel, and has appeared many times to perform wondrous miracles. He is particularly known for his many healing springs and waters in Greece and the Levant, and for being the protector of the River Nile. St. Michael can be found across Mythic Europe at his many mountain sanctuaries, watching over the knightly orders that have arisen in his name; at the Watchtowers of the World, ever vigilant for attacks against the City of God; and also standing guard at the Gates of Hell. St. Michael was also''
''the angel who taught the Ars Notoria to Solomon.''

==Midael, Captain of the Celestial Army==

''Let them be turned back and confounded who devise evil against me. Let them be like chaff before the wind, with the angel of the Lord driving them on. Let their way be dark and slippery, with the angel of the Lord pursuing them.''
''Psalm 35:5-6''
''Choir: Potentate Divine Might: 30 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +3, Com''
''+3, Str +5, Sta +4, Dex +3, Qik +3 Size: +0 Age: n/a (35) Conﬁdence Score: 3 (12) Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Relentless +4, Cunning +2 Reputations: None Combat: Holy spear*: Init +5, Attack +12, Defense''
''+12, Damage +10 *Does an additional +10 damage against''
''Infernal opponents. Soak: +13 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Athletics 6 (running), Aware''
''ness 6 (battle), Dominion Lore 6 (angels), Etiquette 6 (Celestial Court), Hunt 6 (sinners), Infernal Lore 4 (devils), Leadership 7 (angels), Single Weapon 6 (spear), Theology 6 (holy war) Powers: Confound the Wicked, 2 points, +10, Mentem:''
''As Confusion of the Numbed Will. Radiance of the Divine Host, 2 points, +15,''
''Mentem: Causes sinful or evil foes to become awestruck and fearful. Refuge of the Worthy, 5 points, +15, Corpus:''
''As per the saintly miracle, Celestial Immunity (Mythic Christianity, Saints). Tireless Pursuit, 1 point, +10, Terram:''
''Midael can unerringly follow a ﬂeeing foe without losing Fatigue levels for as long as he desires. Equipment: Chain mail armor, spear and''
''shield.''
''Encumbrance: 0 (3) Vis: 2 pawns of Perdo in spear, 2 pawns of''
''Mentem in eyes. Appearance: Midael appears on earth in''
''the guise of a knight or warrior. His angelic nature is clear from his luminous white skin and his shining eyes.''
''Midael is one of the captains of the celestial host, lead by Michael. He is the angel invoked by David in Psalms 34 and 35, and is the defender of those persecuted by evil men, often appearing as a knight or great warrior to protect the innocent or righteous from dishonorable foes or wicked assailants. He has great martial prowess, but his is also a canny warrior and has defeated many opponents with greater skill or power than he by wit and cleverness.''

==Munkar and Nakir, the Questioners==

''Note: Munkar and Nakir have the same statistics. Choir: Thrones Divine Might: 40 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +4, Per +4, Pre +4, Com''
''+4, Str +5, Sta +5, Dex +5, Qik +5 Size: 0 Age: n/a (33) Conﬁdence Score: 3 (20) Virtues and Flaws: Piercing Gaze Personality Traits: Just +3, Love of God +5 Reputations: Angels of the Grave 3,''
''among Muslims Combat: Fist: Init +16, Attack +16, Defense +16,''
''Damage +16 Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Dominion Lore 7 (angels),''
''Brawl 7 (ﬁst), Guile 12 (spot Lies), Theology 10 (angelology) Powers: Question, 3 points, Init +0, Corpus:''
''Munkar and Nakir can ask a character question, which the character will immediately answer as truthfully as possible. This power physically forces the character to answer, making it a power based on Corpus with a Mentem requisite. Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim:''
''Munkar and Nakir can become creatures of pure spirit as they wish. This means that they are unable to affect''
''things physically, or be affected physically. Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus:''
''Munkar and Nakir can change their appearances to look like any human being they wish, though they always take the same form. Their statistics do not change. Equipment: Green robes Encumbrance: 0 (0)''
''Vis: 10 pawns of Corpus each in ﬁsts. Appearance: Two identical men in green''
''robes.''
''Charged with the souls of the Muslim dead, Munkar and Nakir are angels who examine and if necessary punish their charges in their graves. They ask the dead their opinions regarding Muhammad. The faithful will answer that he is the''
''Messenger of God, upon which they will leave them alone to await the Day of Judgment. However, unbelievers and sinners will be unable to answer, upon which the angels will punish them by beating them for as long as God wills, in some cases until the Day of Judgment.''

==Nasir, the Helper==

''As I was unable to walk, I climbed the mountain on horseback, while its slopes were all covered with pieces of stone and pebbles which slipped backwards under the feet of the horse every time its hoofs struck them ... It slipped backward, with the pebbles and chips of stone sliding under it, and fell. So I dismounted, assisted the horse to its feet and stopped, unable to move. At that moment a man came down to me from the mountain and held me by the hand, my other hand holding the pack horse, until he got me to the summit. No, by Allah, I did not know who the man was and never saw him again. ... He was none other than an angel whom Allah, moved by compassion toward me, sent to my aid.''
''Usama ibn Munqidh (d. 1188),''
''The Book of Learning by Example''
''Choir: Angel Divine Might: 25 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com''
''+2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: n/a (33) Conﬁdence Score: 2 (10) Virtues and Flaws: Ways of the (Local''
''Environment); Animal Ken, Wilderness Sense Personality Traits: Compassionate +3,''
''Just +3, Love of God +5 Reputations: None Combat: Fist: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +8,''
''Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-5), –3 (6-10), –5''
''(11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) Abilities: Animal Handling 8 (horses),''
''Animal Ken 8 (horses), Athletics 8 (climbing), Awareness 8 (natural haz''
''ards), Brawl 5 (ﬁst), Chirurgy 8 (bind wound), Dominion Lore 8 (angels), Swim 8 (rough water), Theology 8 (angelology), Wilderness Sense 8 (local environment) Powers: Calming Touch, 3 points, Init +0,''
''Animal/Mentem: By touching the target, Nasir can calm his fears, making him feel reassured in the face of dangerous terrain. Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Nasir''
''can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically. Steadying Hand, 5 points, Init +30, Animal/Corpus: By touching the target, Nasir can assure that his footsteps are ﬁrm and that he can cross the most impassable of terrain. The target will not slip or fall as long as contact is maintained. Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus:''
''Nasir can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change. Equipment: Travelling clothes Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 4 pawns of Terram in feet. Appearance: An unassuming man dressed''
''in well-worn travelling clothes.''
''Nasir is a minor angel charged with the safety of pious travellers. He spends most of his time helping those in need, seeming to appear by mundane means from just out of sight, providing what aid he can, and then leaving again before he can be questioned too closely about his origins.''

==Samuil, Angelic Guide==

''I was in great trouble, weeping asleep on my couch, and there appeared to me two very big men, such as I have never seen on earth — their faces shone like the sun, their eyes were burning candles, out of their mouths came ﬁre, their clothes and singing were various, and their arms like golden wings. They stood at the head of my couch, and called me by name.''
''2 Enoch, 1:5-7''
''Choir: Cherubim Divine Might: 25 (Ignem)''
''Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +3, Com''
''+3, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: +1 Age: n/a (Indeterminate) Conﬁdence Score: 2 (10) Personality Traits: Love of God +5,''
''Righteous +4, Poised +2 Reputations: None. Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +7, Defense +7,''
''Damage +1 Soak: +12 (from holy raiment, otherwise''
''+0) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1-6), –3 (7-11), –3''
''(12-16), Incapacitated (17-21) Abilities: Awareness 5 (travel), Brawl 4''
''(ﬁsts), Dominion Lore 9 (the Seven Heavens), Etiquette 5 (Divine regiones), Theology (Books of Enoch) 8 Powers: Infallible Guide, 0 points, +10, Terram:''
''Samuil can enter and traverse through any regio as though he were a native inhabitant. Grant Vision, 2 points, +2, Mentem: Can''
''duplicate any Understanding effect (see Blessed By God, Miraculous Effects). Transport the Devout, 5 points, +5, Corpus:''
''Can take a chosen person to any destination of his choice, and even beyond the Lunar Sphere. Equipment: Holy garments. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 5 pawns of Corpus in arms. Appearance: Samuil appears as a large,''
''resplendent man whose face shines like the sun and whose eyes glow with holy light. His arms appear like golden wings. He wears a golden girdle, and his pure-white clothes are covered in the holy names of God.''
''Samuil, along with Raguel, transported the patriarch Enoch through the Seven Heavens to come before God. He is responsible for keeping the celestial road clear for souls to travel through, and also for ensuring that the faithful know the word and sovereignty of the Lord. He was tasked by God to help Enoch record the journey through the Seven Heavens, and served Enoch while the patriarch still resided on earth. Since Enoch ascended to Heaven and became Metatron, Samuil has been responsible for delivering visions to saints and prophets. He may also have been one of the angels of righteousness to take St. Paul to the Heavens.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
