''Magic animals cover a very wide range of creatures, from mice that occasionally cough fire to the mighty dragons. Many of them are not intelligent, but even so they are often sought out by magi, both as sources of vis and as potential familiars. Some magic animals seek magi out in turn, aiming to steal their vis sources or prey on more-mundane resources. This chapter details a variety of such creatures, suited to a wide range of saga roles.''
''Beasts of Virtue''
''Beasts of Virtue are highly sought after by Hermetic magi, because they are well suited to being familiars. However, they are rare: in any given habitat of reasonable size (a forest, a lake, or so forth) there may be only one Beast of Virtue. Further, they aren’t naturally distinguished from their mundane fellows without magic — they are more-perfect creatures of their species, but this isn’t always apparent to the eye. A Beast of Virtue epitomizes all the traits of its species, often to a supernatural degree. The mythic qualities assigned to animals in Physiologus and the Bestiaries are actually possessed by Beasts of Virtue rather than their mundane counterparts, and they only have powers that relate to the perfection of their mythic properties. Other magical beasts exist with different powers, but these are Transformed Beasts (see below), not Beasts of Virtue. No Hermetic attempt to create a Beast of Virtue has succeeded; such attempts result in a Transformed Beast, if the creature manages to survive the experimentation process and the Warping. Many magi liken the Beasts of Virtue to a Gifted human, and thus in their arrogance make themselves the epitome of the human species. The corpse of a Beast of Virtue typically contains 1 pawn of vis for each 5 points (or fraction) of Might it possessed; and often the''
''part of the body that contains this vis may be made into an Object of Virtue by a hedge magician (see Chapter 8: Magic Things).''
''Designing Beasts of Virtue''
''Beasts of Virtue should be designed according to the rules in Chapter 4: Magical Characters. The following sections provide guidance on how to use those rules specifically to create a Beast of Virtue. The key features that make a magical animal into a Beast of Virtue are the Inherited Virtues and Flaws listed below, and the absence of Flaws that represent physical defects.''
''Inherited Virtues: Magic Animal; Essential Virtue (Major or Minor) Inherited Flaws: Any Personality Flaw (Major or Minor)''

===Concept===

''You have 7 points to spend on Characteristics, just as other characters. The creatures in the Book of Mundane Beasts appendix or those generated with the rules in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (pages 38–43) all have 7 points spent on the four physical Characteristics only, and have predetermined scores for the four mental Characteristics based on the type of animal. You may choose to accept the mental Characteristics as given (suitable for storyguide characters), or determine mental Characteristics in the usual fashion. Beasts of Virtue rarely have Intelligence rather than Cunning; however, those played as characters are often exceptional in this regard (because it’s no fun playing an unintelligent creature; see Chapter 4: Characters, Cunning Characters). All Beasts of Virtue possess the Special Virtue, Magic Animal. Every Beast of Virtue''
''must also take an Essential Virtue (as either a Minor or Major Magical Quality) to represent those areas in which it excels. This Essential Virtue always typifies the species to which the character belongs — a Viper of Virtue might have Deception as an Essential Virtue, but could not take Friendly or Keen Hearing. Your storyguide will also indicate whether there are any Virtues and Flaws that are intrinsic to the species to which you belong, and you must buy these with your normal allotment of Virtues and Flaws. You may then spend any unused Flaw points on Virtues, and take more Flaws to purchase new Virtues up to your limit for the character type (3 points of flaws for a grog character, 10 points otherwise). You cannot take any Flaw that makes your character a worse example of its base creature; nor any Virtue that hinders it from being the epitome of its species. Beasts of Virtue are therefore never Lame or Blind. Most Beasts of Virtue have the Magical Creature Social Status Flaw. Common Virtues and Flaws include:''
''Greater Immunity, Ways of the (Land); Ferocity**, Intuition, Large***, Lesser Immunity, Magic Sensitivity, Premonitions, Puissant Ability, Reserves of Strength, Second Sight, Strong-Willed, Tireless*, Tough, Unaffected by The Gift*, Wilderness Sense; Essential Flaw (Major)*, Greater Malediction, Wanderlust*; Essential Flaw (Minor)*, Lesser Malediction, Magical Air; any Personality Flaw; Heroic Virtues and Flaws from Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 103–109.''
''* 	 See Chapter 4: Characters, New and Modified Virtues and Flaws ** 	The Ferocity Virtue is described in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 40, or the Book of Mundane Beasts appendix. ***	A creature with the Large Virtue has 1 less point of Quickness and 2 more points of Strength than its base statistics.''

===Season and Abilities===

''A Beast of Virtue typically has the speed of growth of a mundane animal, so a Spring character has usually reached prime condition for a member of its species, at about five years old. As Summer characters, Beasts of Virtue have exceeded the natural lifespan of creatures of their species. Very few Beasts of Virtue are Autumn or Winter characters. You must spend some of your allotted experience points on the Abilities of a creature of your species, at the scores they normally possess. You may spend the rest of your Ability points as you see fit, but cannot typically spend points on human languages or human social Abilities unless you have had substantial contact with humans.''

===Might and Qualities===

''Once you’ve decided the role of the Beast of Virtue in your saga, determine its Might and spend these points on Magical Qualities, taking Magical Inferiorities if you want more points to spend. Beasts of Virtue often have Magical Qualities that grant magical powers (most com''
''monly a Lesser, Personal, or Greater Power rather than a Focus or Ritual Power), but cannot take powers that do not relate to their role as species epitomes. Thus a Dog of Virtue cannot have the Power to breathe fire, but it can have a supernaturally enhanced capacity for tracking. Inspiration for magical powers possessed by Beasts of Virtue can be obtained from the descriptions in medieval bestiaries.''

===Finishing Touches===

''Animals typically have natural weapons in the shape of teeth, claws, or horns; and may have a Protection score provided by their thick hide, fur, or scales. Additionally, some animals have bonuses to certain types of rolls — goats are good at climbing, cats are good at jumping, and so forth. In Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (pages 40–43), these are called Qualities and are natural properties of the animal rather than the Magical Qualities discussed in Chapter 4. You should consult with your storyguide for details of all these final touches. Remember to subtract the Size of a Beast of Virtue from the initial Might score to get the final Might score. This doesn’t affect the points available to spend on Magical Qualities.''
''Example Beasts of Virtue''

===Black Boar of the Bog===

''Magic Might: 20 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –2, Str +6, Sta +5, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: +2 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Champion; Ways of the Wood; Berserk, Improved Characteristics, Self-Confident; Wrathful, Fury; Nocturnal Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic, Greater Power (x2); Animal Resistance, Ignem Resistance, Improved Abilities (x3), Improved Attack (x2), Improved Damage (x2), Improved Fatigue (x3), Improved Soak (x2), Minor Virtue: Great Characteristic (Stamina), Minor Virtue: Tough, Terram Resistance; Monstrous Appearance; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Territorial* +6, Vengeful*+6, Boar* +3, Brave* +3, Curious –1 Reputations: Truculent 2 (local) Combat: Tusks: Initiative +1, Attack +14, Defense +9, Damage +11 Soak: +12 (+17 when using Protect the Herd) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –2/ –2, –4/–4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1–6), –2 (7–12), –4 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Animal Handling 4 (boars), Animal Resistance 4 (claws), (Area) Lore 5 (woods), Athletics 4 (running), Awareness 5 (predators), Brawl 5 (tusks), Ignem Resistance (spells) 4, Penetration 2 (10) (Mentem), Survival 3 (woods), Swimming 1 (swampy waters), Terram Resistance 4 (spears) Powers: Protect the Herd, 4 points, Init –4, Animal  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group  When this power is used, the Boar and all of his animal allies receive a bonus of +5 to their Soak totals for Sun Duration.  MuAn 45 (Base 25, +2 Sun, +2 Group): Greater Power (45 levels, –1 Might cost) Terror of the Charging Boar, 3 points, Init –2, Animal or Mentem  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind  Anyone or anything the Boar charges be''
''comes overwhelmed with a mortal fear of the Boar for Sun Duration. The target must flee immediately from the Boar and is reluctant to ever face him again.  ReMe(An) 25 (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +1 special effect: lingering effect): Greater Power (25 levels, +25 xp in Penetration) Natural Weapons: The Boar’s tusks are Init +0, Atk +4, Dfn +2, Dam +5. Vis: 2 pawns of Animal vis in each tusk. Appearance: A very large, black boar with crimson-stained tusks and yellow eyes.''
''The Black Boar guards a swampy portion of a larger wood that is filled with gnarled trees. The dense canopy of the wood gives it a foreboding feeling, but it is filled with wildlife. This section of the wood is a haven for herbivores because the Black Boar guards it jealously. He attacks all large predators and men who enter the area, regardless of their intentions toward the inhabitants. The Black Boar is a solitary creature, but quickly lends his protection to any inhabitants of his area that come under attack. The Boar’s tusks may be Enriched by soaking them in the blood of the Boar for one month and then using the tusks to strike the killing blow on a predator that hunted the area where the Boar lived. If this is done, any character carrying the tusks in battle is granted the Berserk Virtue.''

===Black Dog of the Moor===

''Magic Might: 25 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com –1, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: +2 Season: Autumn Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Champion; Ways of the Moor; SelfConfident, Sharp Ears; Fury; Greedy, Nocturnal, Proud Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic, Greater Power (x5); Animal Resistance, Improved Attack, Improved Abilities, Improved Damage (x2), Improved Fatigue, Improved Soak, Minor Virtue: Improved Characteristics (x2), Minor Virtue: Tough; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Territorial* +6, Dog* +3, Brave* +3, Gluttonous* +3, Overconfident* +3 Reputations: Murderous 2 (local) Combat: Bite: Initiative +1, Attack +13, Defense +8, Damage +13''
''Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Animal Handling 5 (canines), Animal Resistance 4 (claws), (Area) Lore 5 (hunting trails), Athletics 4 (running), Awareness 5 (prey), Brawl 5 (bite), Folk Ken 4 (travelers), Hunt 6 (tracking), Magic Lore 1 (regiones), Penetration 7 (Corpus) , Stealth 5 (stalking prey), Survival 4 (moors), Swimming 2 (quietly) Powers: Nose of the Bloodhound, 1 point, Init –2, Corpus or Animal  R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind  Once the Black Dog picks up the scent of a creature, he may track it to the ends of the earth. If the Black Dog frequents the same location as the quarry or examines one of its personal effects and makes a Perception roll against an Ease Factor of 6, the Black Dog picks up the creature’s scent. As long as the Black Dog is tracking the quarry, he always knows the direction of the shortest path to the quarry.  InCo(An) 25 (Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc, +1 special effect: scent serves as Arcane Connection): Greater Power x2 (25 levels, –2 Might cost, +65 xp in Penetration) Dominate Canine, 1 point, Init –3, Animal''
''R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group  Any canine that hears the voice of the Black Dog is strongly inclined to obey his orders. This is similar to the spell Aura of Rightful Authority.  ReAn 35 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost) Leader of the Pack, 2 points, Init –3, Animal  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group  When the Black Dog is present in any group of canines, they fight as a trained group and all of their attack rolls are at +2.  ReAn 40 (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost) Shadow Form, 1 point, Init –3, Animal  R: Per, D: Conc, T: Ind  When the Black Dog enters a shadow that is big enough to cover his Size +1, he may take the form of shadow. While in shadow form, the Black Dog adds +4 to all Stealth rolls and is unaffected by physical attacks.  MuAn 35 (Base 30, +1 Conc): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 Might cost) Natural Weapons: The Black Dog’s bite is Init 0, Atk +4, Def +1, Dam +3. Vis: 5 pawns of Animal vis in his hide. Appearance: A gigantic, black hound that is similar in appearance to a monstrous rottweiler.''

[|
''Suggested Familiars by Art''
''The Arts used to bond a familiar must correspond to either the animal itself, or its powers (see ArM5, page 104). The following list expands on the suggestions in ArM5 for animals that may be suited to particular Arts.''
''Creo: beaver, eagle, lizard, pelican, weasel, any animal that can rejuvenate itself Intellego: cat (tortoiseshell), crow, goat, raven, woodpecker, toad, any animal with keen senses, any animal thought to foretell the future Muto: cat (white or tortoiseshell), fox, hare, moths and butterflies, toad, other amphibians Perdo: asp, hedgehog, salamander, shrew, weasel, any venomous animal Rego: badger, cat (black), cockerel, dog, lion, owl, wolf, any pack leader or similarly dominant animal Animal: any animal''
''Aquam: coot, duck, frog, kingfisher, otter, swan, any amphibious or semi-aquatic animal Auram: crow, kingfisher, spider, any bird or bat Corpus: caladrius, cat, dog, goose, mandrake (see Chapter 8: Magic Things, Herbs of Virtue) Herbam: beaver, mandrake (see Chapter 8: Magic Things, Herbs of Virtue), monkey, squirrel, woodpecker Ignem: eagle, hercinia, salamander, scitalis (see Dragons), very small dragons Imaginem: chameleon (lizard), cricket, magpie, partridge, peacock, scitalis (see Dragons) Mentem: ape, cat (black or tortoiseshell), fox, owl, wolf, any animal with an Intelligence score (before bonding) Terram: badger, hedgehog, ferret, frog, fox, mole, mouse Vim: hoopoe, any magical animal''

|]
''The Black Dog of the Moor dominates all canines in his area and considers it his duty to protect dogs, wolves, and jackals, where present. He fights any canine in the area that challenges his authority, but only kills when the food supply is insufficient to support the local canine population. The Black Dog of the Moor is generally indifferent to the activities of humans, but in some areas, where wolves or jackals are hunted, he takes a more active role and discourages the hunts by harassing or killing the hunters. The Black Dog of the Moor is one example of a class of creature called Black Dogs. The Black Dogs go by many different names,''
''as they are known throughout northern Europe — Ireland (Coinn Iotair), Wales (Cwn Annwn), England (Gytrash), Isle of Manx (Mauthe Dhoog), France (Rongeur D’os), and Brittany (Youdic Dogs). The Black Dogs are solitary and have well-delineated habitats. They often prowl a moor, swamp, or abandoned castle. Some people believe these hounds to be agents of the Infernal, but this is largely based on fear of the unknown and the hounds’ habit of prowling their territory at night. A Black Dog will assert its dominance over the territory by closely following or chasing nighttime travelers. A Black Dog never attacks unless its''
''quarry attacks first, and then the Black Dog drags the person off, never to be seen again. The hide of a Black Dog may be Enriched by tanning it in total darkness. It must then be buried under a new moon and left undisturbed for one month. The resulting hide may be fashioned into a cowl that grants the wearer the Puissant Stealth Virtue.''

===Caladrius===

''If anyone is ill, the caladrius will tell whether the patient will live or die.''
''— Pierre de Beauvais''
''Magic Might: 14 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –1, Per +2, Pre +1, Com –2, Str –4, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: –2 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Friend; Essential Virtue (magnificent appearance), Unaffected by the Gift, Lesser Immunity (to non-lethal diseases); Noncombatant, Compassionate (minor) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Ritual Power (x2); Improved Abilities, Improved Might (x2), Ignem Resistance, Improved Powers, Personal Power; Minor Flaw: Restricted Power, Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Ibis* +3, Magnificent Appearance* (Presence) +3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7– 9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 4 (food), Brawl 2 (dodging), Ignem Resistance (solar heat) 4, Survival 3 (wetlands) Powers: Healing Gaze, 4 points, Init –14, Corpus  R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind  By gazing into a person’s eyes, the caladrius can draw out any non-fatal disease from a sick person into itself. This removes any disease of up to Incapacitating strength, or resolves a critical or lesser aging crisis. The caladrius must immediately fly up toward the sun or else the disease returns to the patient (this is a Restricted Power).  CrCo 40 (Base 30, +1 Eye, +1 affect either disease or aging): Ritual Power x2''

[|
''Beasts of Virtue Story Seeds''

===a Noble’s Folly===

''The son of a local noble becomes obsessed with the stories of a monstrous black boar that cannot be killed. The heir is killed hunting the Black Boar of the Bog and the noble swears revenge on it. The noble’s advisor comes to beg the characters for their assistance in defeating the boar. The magi realize that the advisor is withholding something from them. In truth, the advisor thought the heir unfit to rule and persuaded him to hunt the beast, knowing that it would likely kill him. Now the advisor fears the same fate will befall his lord, or, worse, that his role in the heir’s death will be uncovered.''

===Hunt for the Black Dog===

''A local noble beats his hounds when the hunt is unsuccessful. After a Black Dog of the Moor witnesses this, he attacks the noble and frees the hounds. While the noble hunts the Black Dog, he interferes with the covenant’s vis collection, harasses the local faeries, and generally makes a nuisance of himself. Finally, the noble demands the assistance of the covenant in hunting the magical beast. A problem arises when the characters discover that a powerful maga has allied with the Black Dog, who uses his tracking powers to great effectiveness in Marching her enemies. The maga encourages the Black Dog to kill the noble, whose lands are far from her covenant. The characters are forced to mediate the dispute.''

===The Imprisoned Caladrius===

''Both kings and magi greatly prize the caladrius for its healing powers. Such a powerful character has captured a caladrius and plans to keep it until his next aging crisis. The kind-hearted bird wants only to be set free so it can use its healing power to help others. Perhaps it finds a way to ask the characters for help, or maybe it escapes on its own and the characters are accused of stealing it.''

===The Cockerel’s Crow===

''Invisible demons (in spirit form) have been menacing a village for years, but a Cockerel of Virtue has kept them away. Recently, the magic cockerel lost a fight to a mundane bird and has stopped crowing, so the demons are now free to terrorize the villagers. The characters can either confront the spirits themselves, or find some way to restore the bird’s confidence.''

===The Stallion Guide===

''The characters need to locate someone or something in the Camargue. The Great Stallion of the Camargue knows the area better than any other living creature. How do they approach him for assistance? The Stallion and his herd flee from any humans. Once the characters are able to communicate with the Stallion, what can they offer him in exchange for his information?''

|]
''(40 levels, –2 Might cost), Improved Powers (–2 Might cost) Perceive the Afflictions of Mortal Flesh, 0 points, Init +1, Corpus  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Sight  By sight, the caladrius can identify any diseases a person has and how serious they are.  InCo 25 (Base 5, +4 Sight): Personal Power (25 levels), Improved Powers (–3 Might cost) Vis: 3 Corpus (1 in each eye, 1 in the wings) Appearance: The caladrius is a magnificent, all-white bird somewhat resembling a heron (but with shorter legs and beak). It has a long, gracefully curving neck and a short, slightly downward-curving beak.''
''A caladrius is a mystical bird much sought by royal households. It can determine whether a sick person will live or die. If the patient is to die, the caladrius sadly turns away from him, but if he is to live, it gazes deeply into his eyes, drawing the sickness into itself. It then flies away toward the sun, going so high that the sun’s rays burn away the disease (but they do not harm the caladrius itself). A caladrius will not absorb a terminal illness (its Lesser Immunity would not protect it), but it will gladly heal any lesser ailment. It can heal either spontaneous diseases, which result from aging crises (see ArM5, page 168) or diseases due to an external cause (ArM5, page 180). As long as the crisis is not terminal or the disease does not cause a Lethal Wound, a caladrius can cure it. It can only heal wounds caused by disease, not those resulting from poison, combat, or other causes. It cannot remove Decrepitude. The eyes of a caladrius are Enriched by grinding them to a paste, which is then used to fill a hollow wing bone taken from the same bird. This must be soaked in the urine of a virgin girl for a season, after which time it grants the wielder the Puissant Medicine Virtue.''

===Cockerel of Virtue===

''Magic Might: 9 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com 0, Str –6, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +4 Size: –3 Season: Spring Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Champion; Essential Virtue (proud, minor), Ferocity (battles for dominance); Compulsion (fight for dominance), Overconfident (minor), Restricted Pow''
''er (nocturnal spirits only) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Improved Might, Improved Powers, Minor Virtue: Sense Holiness and Unholiness; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Cockerel* +3, Proud +3 Reputations: Proud (local) 3 Combat: Spurs: Init +3, Attack +8, Defense +10, Damage –5 Beak: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage –5 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Athletics 1 (balancing), Awareness 3 (invisible spirits), Brawl 3 (spurs), Music 3 (crowing), Penetration 4 (Mentem effects), Sense Holiness and Unholiness 3 (invisible spirits) Powers: Scourge the Spirits of the Night, 0 points, Init +4, Mentem  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Sound  When the Cockerel of Virtue crows, any nocturnal spirits who hear the sound (and whose Magic Resistance fails to protect them) are stricken with panic and flee the area, remaining away until the next sunrise or sunset. This power is effective against spirits of any Realm, as long as they are only active at night (including most ghosts and some demons and dark fae, at the storyguide’s discretion).  CrMe 20 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +3 Sound): Greater Power (20 levels, +1 Initiative, –2 Might cost, 15 xp Penetration) Vis: 2 Vim in comb''
''The Cockerel of Virtue benefits farmers through its crowing, which drives away evil spirits. A mundane cockerel normally crows to herald the coming of dawn, so the Cockerel of Virtue’s cry terrifies spirits of darkness through the Law of Sympathy. A variant effect for the Cockerel’s crow may be found on page 29 of Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults. Cocks fight one another for dominance. The winner is the proudest of all creatures and struts regally around the barnyard, but the loser becomes dejected (temporarily gaining the Personality Flaw, Depressed) and does not crow. The comb of a Cockerel of Virtue can be Enriched by stretching the skin over an amber bead which must then rest on consecrated ground for a period not less than 12 Sundays. When worn around the neck, the wearer gains Second Sight with an Ability of 3.''

===Great Stallion of the Camargue===

''Magic Might: 15 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre +1, Com –3, Str +5, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +4 Size: +2 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Champion; Great Characteristic (Quickness), Improved Characteristics, LongWinded, Strong-Willed; Overconfident; Close Family Ties, Higher Purpose (protect the herd) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power, Improved Quickness, Major Virtue: Ways of the Marsh; Animal Resistance, Improved Abilities (x2), Improved Defense, Improved Fatigue (x2), Personal Power (x3); Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Brash* +6, Stallion* +3, Stubborn* +3, Loyal* +3, Proud +2 Reputations: Elusive 2 (local) Combat: Hooves: Initiative +6, Attack +6, Defense +12, Damage +6. Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Animal Handling 5 (horses), Animal Resistance 4 (claws), (Area) Lore 7 (Camargue), Athletics 6 (running), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 3 (dodging), Survival 3 (Camargue) Powers: Sense the Feet that Tread the Earth, 2 points, Constant, Terram  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part  The Stallion feels what is moving on the ground within one mile of his location. He can tell the direction, distance, weight, number, and manner of locomotion of the moving things. (See ArM5, page 154).  InTe 40 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +3 Size, +1 Constant): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost) Sprint of the Zephyr, 1 point, Init +2, Animal  R: Per, D: Diam, T: Ind  The horse may gallop at amazing speeds for relatively short distances. Unencumbered, it can travel one league in one Diameter. Add one Diameter to the travel time for each Burden level of the horse.  ReAn 20 (Base 15, +1 Diam): Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost)''
''The Unimpeded Traveler, 3 points, Constant, Animal  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind  This steed is not impeded by poor terrain and may move at maximum speed along even the poorest of terrain, achieving 30 miles a day. It may even cross open water and chasms, unsupported by ground, but can do this only at a trotting pace.  ReAn 25 (Base 10, Sun +2, +1 Constant): Personal Power (25 levels) Great Leap, 0 points, Init +2, Animal  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind  The Stallion is able to leap instantly up to 30 paces vertically or 50 paces horizontally. The Stallion must make a Dexterity – Encumbrance stress roll of 0+ to land without injury.  ReAn 15 (Base 15): Personal Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost) Natural Weapons: The Stallion’s hooves are Init +2, Atk +2, Dfn +2, Dam +1. Vis: 3 pawns of Animal vis in his hooves. Appearance: A beautiful white stallion.''
''The Camargue is a large, flat, and marshy delta region of the Rhône River. Within the marsh live the magical, wild horses of the Camargue. They are a herd that can run faster and leap higher than any mundane horse. They are nearly impossible to capture because they are led by the Great Stallion of the Camargue. The Stallion has an extensive knowledge of the Camargue and a magical ability to sense any potential trap. The Stallion leads the herd away from trouble whenever possible. The Great Stallion of the Camargue cannot be broken without magic, but may grant a particularly brave or noble warrior the honor of riding it for a short time. The Stallion leads a herd of Horses of Virtue. The horses are largely similar to the Great Stallion, except they are Magic Might 10 and do not possess the Stallion’s ability to Sense the Feet that Tread the Earth, the Ways of the Marsh Virtue, or the Improved Abilities Quality, which reduces their (Area) Lore (Camargue) to only 3. The Stallion’s hooves may be Enriched by carving them into various accoutrements for a bit, bridle, and saddle to outfit a single horse. The leather used to construct the tack must be of the finest quality and anointed with oil infused with one dozen leaves of coltsfoot harvested under a full moon. The rider who uses the resulting tack is granted the Puissant Ride Virtue.''

===Pentele, a Lion of Virtue===

''So I first speak and begin with the lion because he is the king of all beasts.''
''— Pierre de Beauvais''
''Magic Might: 31 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +3, Com –2, Str +6, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: +2 Age: 12 Season: Autumn Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Master; Essential Virtue (brave, minor), Improved Characteristics (x4), Puissant Brawl, Self-Confident; Difficult Underlings, Proud (major); Ability Block (languages), Fear (wheels), Infamous, Weakness (helpless creatures) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Improved Abilities (x2), Improved Attack (x2), Improved Defense (x2), Improved Fatigue, Improved Might (x8), Improved Soak (x4), Lesser Power (x2), Minor Virtue: Animal Ken, Minor Virtue: Wilderness Sense, Personal Power; Minor Flaw: Restricted Power, Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Lion* +3, Brave* +3, Wild +3, Merciful +3 Reputations: Dangerous Beast 4 (local) Combat: Large claws: Init +1, Attack +19, Defense +17, Damage +10 Large teeth: Init +1, Attack +17, Defense +14, Damage +9 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: (Area) Lore 4 (forest animals), Animal Ken 5 (felines), Athletics 5 (pouncing), Awareness 4 (prey), Brawl 7+2 (claws), Concentration 2 (maintaining powers), Etiquette 3 (Beasts of Virtue), Guile 3 (misleading), Hunt 5 (deer), Leadership 6 (felines), Penetration 3 (Animal effects), Stealth 4 (stalking), Survival 4 (forests), Wilderness Sense 4 (hazards) Powers: Terrifying Roar, 3 points, Init +2, Animal or Mentem  R: Per, D: Diameter, T: Sound  A Lion of Virtue can unleash a roar causing all who hear it to freeze in terror. This power affects both humans and animals.''
''ReAn(Me) 30 (Base 5, +1 Diameter, +3 Sound, +1 Mentem requisite): Greater Power (30 levels, +2 Initiative, 10 xp Penetration) Trackless Step, 1 point, Init 0, Terram  R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind  By sweeping the ground behind him with his tail, a Lion of Virtue can wipe out his tracks as he walks. The requirement to use his tail makes this a Restricted Power.  ReTe 10 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc): Lesser Power (10 levels, –1 Might cost, 15 xp Concentration; Might cost equal to magnitude to meet criteria for a Lesser Power) Circle of Beast Warding, 1 point, Init +2, Animal  R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle  A Lion of Virtue can trace a circle on the ground that no mundane beast can cross. It sometimes uses this to capture prey.  ReAn 5 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Ring): Lesser Power (5 levels, +2 Initiative, 10 xp Penetration; Might cost equal to magnitude to meet criteria for a Lesser Power) Sleep with Eyes Open, 0 points, Init n/a, Animal  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind  A Lion of Virtue sleeps with its eyes open, so enemies have a hard time taking it by surprise.  ReAn 10 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 continuous effect): Personal Power (10 levels, –1 Might cost, 10 xp Penetration) Vis: 6 Rego in mane''
''Pentele is literally the King of Beasts. All other animals yield to his majesty — except the cockerel, which struts so proudly that even Pentele is cowed. Pentele rules an animal kingdom in some remote part of Mythic Europe (deep in the wilderness, or perhaps in a strong Magic aura or regio). Just as there are many nations and many rulers in the lands of men, so there are many different Lions of Virtue, each ruling over a different animal kingdom. Like any ruler, Pentele is attended by nobles, courtiers, guards, and lackeys — a retinue of Beasts of Virtue of many different species. If, during his travels, a Lion of Virtue catches scent of humans, it covers its tracks by sweeping the earth behind itself with its tail. Ever watchful for hunters and enemies, it sleeps with its eyes open so as not to be taken unaware. Though mighty and very wild, a Lion of Virtue is merciful by nature. Pierre be Beauvais writes that the lion spares small, defenseless animals; it refrains from attacking women, children, and unarmed men. A person who throws herself on the ground in submission to''
''a Lion of Virtue will receive mercy. A Lion of Virtue is afraid of the sound of turning wheels and, like most beasts, it has a healthy respect for fire. It is a natural enemy of dragons. To Enrich a Lion of Virtue's mane, each individual hair must be plucked and spun into thread, then woven with gold thread into a fabric collar worn by its maker. Once per day, the wearer can make eye contact with an animal and duplicate the effects of Mastering the Unruly Beast (ArM5, page 120) as a Greater Power that has a Penetration Total of 5. However, the collar’s wearer cannot show fear when commanding an animal; if the animal is threatening him he must make a Brave roll (with an Ease Factor determined by the fierceness of the animal in question). If he gets scared while controlling an animal, the power automatically fails. Alternatively, the mane can be Enriched by curing the skin with potash and anointing it with oil made from sage plants every three days at noon. When made into a belt, it grants a Lesser Immunity to Fear.''

===Panther of Virtue===

''Its is said that all four-footed beasts are wonderfully delighted and enticed by the smell of panthers; but [the panthers’] hideous looks and crabbed countenance which they betray so soon as they show their heads, scares them as much again: and therefore their manner is, to hide their heads, and when they have trained other beasts within their reach by their sweet savor, they fly upon them and worry them.''
''— Pliny the Elder, Naturalis Historia''
''Magic Might: 15 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun +2, Per +2, Pre –3, Com –2, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +4, Qik +2 Size: 0 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Essential Virtue (cunning ambusher), Great Dexterity, Perfect Balance, Puissant Brawl, Puissant Stealth; Essential Flaw (savage appearance), Hatred (minor, of other beasts) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Improved Abilities, Improved Might (x5), Improved Soak (x2); Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Panther* +3, Hateful +3, Cunning Ambusher* (Cunning) +3, Reclusive +2, Brave –1 Reputations: Deceitful 2 (local) Combat:''
''Claws: Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +11, Damage +3 Teeth: Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (pouncing), Awareness 2 (laying ambush), Brawl 3 (claws), Concentration 1 (maintaining effects), Hunt 3 (5) (antelope), Stealth 3 (hiding), Survival 3 (forests) Powers: Pleasing Breath, 2 points, Init +1, Animal or Mentem  R: Per, D: Conc, T: Scent  The breath of the panther has an irresistible, savory smell as of all the spices in the world. Any human or beast who smells it becomes entranced unless it succeeds on a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Entranced victims follow the scent to where the panther lies in ambush. The panther’s breath travels on the wind and is effective at up to 100 paces in ideal conditions. Dragons are''
''immune to its effects.  ReAn 35 (Base 15, +1 Conc, +2 Scent, +1 Mentem requisite): Greater Power (35 levels, –2 Might cost, 5 xp Concentration) Vis: 3 Rego in tongue Appearance: The Panther of Virtue is about the size of a large dog. Its fur is white and covered with small spots of many colors. The face of a Panther of Virtue is hideous to behold, with bulging eyes and a twisted, evil expression. It has a pronounced muzzle and a gaping maw filled with sharp teeth.''
''The Panther of Virtue is a dangerous predator whose fragrant breath lures animals to their doom. The animals walk, mesmerized, toward where the panther lies in hiding. The spell is broken when they see its hideous face, but by then it is too late. The Panther of Virtue preys mainly on weak animals — it is not a brave beast and flees if it encounters serious resistance. When it attacks from hiding, it automatically wins Initiative in the first round of combat, and gains a +3 to its attack total for the first round only. Pliny the Elder writes that panthers were brought from Africa to Italy for use in the Roman circus. Some might have escaped to''
''survive in Mythic Europe, either in the remote wilderness or in regiones. The tongue of a Panther of Virtue can grant the Entrancement Ability at a score of 3. It must first be Enriched by coating it with a thin layer of silver every week for a season, and then be inscribed with the words SAPHAT ELONAI METHIAX written in blue enamel. The tongue must be placed in the character's mouth to work (a Necessary Condition).''

===Raven of Virtue===

''The ravens of all other birds, seem to have a knowledge of their own significations in presages and fore-tokens: for when the mercenary hired soldiers of Media were all massacred under a pretense of entertainment and hospitality, the ravens flew all away out of Peloponnesus and the region of Attica. The worst token of ill luck that they give, is when in their crying they seem to swallow in their voice as though they were choked.''
''— Pliny the Elder, Naturalis Historia''
''Magic Might: 9 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre –2, Com 0, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +5 Size: –4 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Friend; Essential Virtue (understands portents), Keen Vision, Unaffected by the Gift; Compulsion (steal shiny objects), Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Improved Abilities (x2), Improved Defense (x2), Minor Virtue: Premonitions, Minor Virtue: Second Sight; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Raven* +3, Understands Portents* (Intelligence) +3, Morbid +3, Nurturing +2 Reputations: Bad luck (local) 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +5, Attack n/a, Defense +12, Damage n/a Beak: Init +5, Attack +7, Defense +11, Damage –6 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –2 (2), –3 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 3 (shiny objects), Brawl 3 (dodging), Hunt 1 (voles), Premonitions 4 (homicide), Second Sight 4 (ghosts), Stealth 1 (hiding in trees), Survival 3 (fields) Vis: 2 Intellego, 1 in each eye''
''The Raven of Virtue is a bird of ill omen. It can foresee many calamities and intentionally appears to humans as an enigmatic warning. It does this not to be helpful, but because it enjoys causing anxiety and consternation. Ravens eat carrion as well as insects and small animals. When they come upon a corpse, they eat the eyes first. They do not feed their young until the fledglings develop black plumage. Before that time, the raven chicks must subsist on dew, but after their feathers grow their parents recognize them as their own and are careful and attentive. The vis in a Raven of Virtue is Enriched by turning the whole corpse inside out, wrapping the bloody flesh in the leaves of plant called eyebright, then suspending it in the top branches of an ash tree for a season. The detached claws then grant the wearer the Keen Vision Virtue. If buried under the roots of a willow instead, the raven’s skull grants the Intuition Virtue when crafted into a ring.''

===Salamander of Virtue===

''[I]f, by any chance, [the salamander] falls into a very hot fire, it extinguishes the fire right away.''
''— Pierre de Beauvais''
''Magic Might: 24 (Ignem) Characteristics: Cun  –2, Per +1, Pre –3, Com –3, Str –13, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +10 Size: –8 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Greater Immunity (to heat and flames); Essential Virtue (cold-blooded), Unaffected by the Gift; Noncombatant, Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (x4); Improved Might, Improved Powers, Personal Power Personality Traits: Salamander* +3, ColdBlooded* (Stamina) +3, Destructive +2, Timid +2 Reputations: Immune to Fire 6 (local) Combat: Dodge: Init +10, Attack n/a, Defense +12, Damage n/a Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Awareness 2 (5) (fires), Brawl 1 (dodging), Stealth 4 (hiding in crannies), Survival 2 (wetlands), Swim 3 (standing water) Powers:''
''Devouring the Heat of the Fire, 0 points, Init +14, Ignem  R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind  The Salamander of Virtue can instantly extinguish any fire it touches, even the hottest furnace. If the fire is very large, only a three-pace radius around the Salamander is extinguished. Even if it does not use this power, the Salamander of Virtue is completely unharmed by heat and flames.  PeIg 15 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +2 Size): Greater Power (15 levels, +5 Initiative, –2 Might cost) Sense of the Bright Flame, 0 points, Init n/a, Ignem  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Hearing  The Salamander of Virtue can locate fires as if by sense of hearing. This power is continuously active.  InIg 15 (Base 2, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing, +1 continuous effect): Personal Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost) Poisoning the Well, 1 point, Init +9, Aquam  R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind  The Salamander of Virtue can poison water (or other liquid) by touch. The amount affected is ten times the base Individual target. The material remains poisonous for Moon Duration; if ingested, it inflicts an Incapacitating wound to any who fail a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Since the poison is magical, Magic Resistance can protect against its effects. The Salamander of Virtue automatically invokes this power when it dies.  MuAq 45 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +1 Size): Greater Power (45 levels, –3 Might cost) Poisoning the Fruit of the Vine, 4 points, Init +9, Herbam  R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind  Similarly, by touching a fruit tree or edible plant, the Salamander of Virtue can make that plant poisonous to eat. The effects of the poison are identical to those from the Poisoning the Well power, above.  MuHe 50 (Base 20 (new guideline), +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +2 Size): Greater Power (50 levels), Improved Powers (1 mastery point, –1 Might cost) Poisonous Skin, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  Finally, the Salamander of Virtue’s skin is continuously coated with a contact poison that causes an Incapacitating Wound to any who touch it and fail a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Magic Resistance protects against this effect normally.  CrAq 40 (Base 20, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1''
''continuous effect): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost), Improved Powers (2 mastery points, –2 Might cost) Vis: 5 pawns of dedicated Vis in the Art combination of Perdo Ignem (see Chapter 8: Magic Things, Dedicated Vis) Appearance: The salamander is a tiny lizard only two or three inches long. Its smooth, moist skin is covered with dark spots.''
''The word “salamander” comes from Greek. Magi use it as a kind of blanket term for various beings associated with the Form of Ignem. The term “Salamander of Virtue” specifically refers to a small lizard with remarkable powers over fire. A Salamander of Virtue is very cold by nature and seeks out any source of heat: fires, or even warm-blooded creatures. When it finds a fire, a Salamander of Virtue eagerly crawls into it and extinguishes it. The body of a Salamander of Virtue, if dried by smoking it over embers of alder wood, is Enriched into a Thing of Virtue. When touched to the hands, heart, and forehead (a Necessary Condition), it grants Immunity to Fire for as long as its possessor touches it.''

===Stag of Virtue===

''...[W]hen the stag knows where the serpent is, he goes and fills his mouth with water and spits it down where the serpent is and draws him out ... and stamps him underfoot and thus kills him.''
''— Pierre de Beauvais''
''Magic Might: 17 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun –2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com –3, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: +2 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Ways of the Forest; Essential Virtue (healthy, minor), Ferocity (when at bay), Great Quickness, Lesser Immunity (fevers), Long-Winded, Puissant Athletics; Hatred (of serpents, major); Higher Purpose (protect its herd), Restricted Power (x2) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Ritual Power; Improved Abilities, Improved Might (x7), Improved Powers, Improved Soak (x2), Personal Power (x2); Major Flaw: Hunger for Animal Vis; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Stag* +3, Noble +3, Healthy (Stamina) +3, Brave +2''

[|
''Beasts of Virtue Story Seeds (con’t)''

===Under Pentele’s Protection===

''The magi follow stories of a wondrous garden to a magical place inhabited by many Beasts of Virtue. However, all the animals there are under the protection of Pentele. If a means of communication can be found, Pentele may be willing to let the characters explore his realm and even hunt there, provided they perform some favor (such as driving away a small dragon that lives nearby).''

===The Panther’s Lure===

''The covenant or its neighbors are suffering mysterious disappearances of animals. Stealing livestock is a serious crime in most parts of Mythic Europe; in many places it is punishable by death. Suspicions may fall on the magi, but a Panther of Virtue is actually to blame. Incautious characters who investigate may themselves fall victim to the Panther’s lure.''

===a Bad Omen===

''A Raven of Virtue can be a novel, if somewhat heavy-handed, way to launch a story where something bad happens at the covenant. The Aegis of the Hearth keeps it out, so it must deliver its omen to grogs or covenfolk whose daily business takes them outside the covenant walls.''

===Cold-blooded Intruder===

''A Salamander of Virtue finds its way into the covenant — its Might is high enough that it can go right through a weak Aegis of the Hearth. In its never-ending search for warmth it extinguishes cooking fires, puts out the blacksmith’s forge, and eventually finds its way into the magi’s laboratories. The creature is so small, it can easily crawl through cracks under doors or hide itself among the rushes on the floors. Grogs and covenfolk are probably terrified of the Salamander of Virtue because of its poison, though it is quite easy to kill by mundane means (if it can be found). An ambitious''
''magus might want the Salamander of Virtue as a familiar, but the creature cares little for humans and is not easy to befriend.''

===a Magical Quarry===

''The characters need the healing powers in the antler of a Stag of Virtue to heal a sick friend. They can either hunt the stag or try to find one of its buried antlers. In many parts of Mythic Europe, hunting large game is a privilege reserved for the nobility. The characters may be accused of poaching, or they may find that the local noble is hunting the Stag of Virtue for himself. Because the Stag has the Ways of the Forest Virtue and an impressive Athletics score, it can be a difficult quarry.''

===The White Warder===

''Unknown to the magi, their grogs are hunting the forest of the White Stag of the Wood. Not only does this risk problems with the local noble, who hangs poachers, but the White Stag is upset by it. The Stag attacks any grog entering the wood. If magi begin to accompany the grogs, the Stag captures or devours as many of the covenant’s vis sources as he can locate. The magi must gain the trust of the Stag and mediate a truce, or destroy him. If the characters kill the White Stag, the deer population is quickly depleted and a pack of Infernal wolves takes control of the forest.''

===What the Owl Saw===

''The Wise Owl of the Forest witnesses the characters doing something that they wish to keep quiet. A Quaesitor discovers the minor transgression and brings it up at the next Tribunal. The characters are left wondering how the Quaesitor uncovered their misdeeds, until they encounter a magical owl on their return trip who wants to talk for hours. If the characters exact revenge on the Owl, they lose a potentially valuable source of information about powerful magical creatures, vis sources, and hidden regiones in the forest.''

|]
''Reputations: Noble 2 (local) Combat: Antlers: Init +4, Attack +10, Defense +10, Damage +7 Hooves: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +9, Damage +5 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 8+2 (sprinting), Awareness 5 (hunters), Brawl 5 (antlers), Stealth 3 (hiding in undergrowth), Survival 4 (forests) Powers: Healing, 3 points, Init –8, Animal  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind  The stag can heal one of its own Heavy or lesser wounds. This is a Restricted Power: the stag must eat the herb dittany to activate it.  CrAn 25 (Base effect): Ritual Power (25 levels), Improved Powers (2 mastery point, –2 Might cost) Delay the Serpent’s Venom, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind''
''The Stag of Virtue is magically warded against poison. Any poison introduced into the Stag’s body takes no effect until the next sunrise or sunset (whichever comes first). This power activates whenever such a poison is introduced, and thus has an Intellego requisite.  Re(In)Aq 20 (Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 Intellego requisite): Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost), Improved Powers (1 mastery point, –1 Might cost) Alleviate the Serpent’s Bite, 1 point, Init +1, Aquam  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind  A Stag of Virtue can permanently neutralize any poison already inside its body. This is a Restricted Power, which the Stag must drink water to activate.  PeAq 15 (Base 15): Personal Power (15 levels, +1 Initiative, –1 Might cost) Vis: 3 Creo in right antler. This is spell-like (see Chapter 8: Magic Things, Spell-Like Vis) with an effect similar to Restoration of the Defiled Body (ArM5, page 129).''
''A Stag of Virtue is a great enemy of serpents and kills them whenever it can. It does this by filling its mouth with water and spitting it down the serpent’s hole; when the serpent emerges to escape drowning, the Stag''
''of Virtue tramples it to death. A Stag of Virtue enjoys vigorous health and can live a very long time (in fact, like other Beasts of Virtue, it can live forever). To keep itself youthful and healthy, this stag swallows a live, venomous serpent. Then it drinks a large quantity of water to neutralize the venom. After this process, its antlers fall off and its vigor is restored. Hermetic experts concur that the Stag of Virtue actually consumes Magical serpents for this process and that it becomes weak and looks aged when it cannot find snakes to eat (such as during the winter). The Stag of Virtue lives only in places where Magical snakes can be found. The right antler of a Stag of Virtue has healing powers and is greatly sought by hedge wizards and magi alike. The stag always buries its antlers after shedding them. Anyone who consumes the flesh of a Stag of Virtue gains a Lesser Immunity to fevers for Moon duration. The stag itself is immune to fevers and the venison transfers this immunity through the Law of Contagion. The right antler of a Stag of Virtue may be Enriched by carving it into a cup, which every day for a season is filled with the blood and powdered skull of a viper. If filled with clear spring water with a leaf of dittany (a Necessary Condition), the cup neutralizes any poison (Greater Purifying Touch (Poison))''

===White Stag of the Wood===

''Magic Might: 22 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre +2, Com –3, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: +2 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Master; Ways of the Forest; Improved Characteristics; Ambitious, Enemies (obsessed hunters); Higher Purpose (protect the wood) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (x2), Vis Mastery; Animal Resistance, Terram Resistance, Improved Abilities (x2), Improved Attack (antlers), Improved Defense (antlers), Improved Fatigue, Improved Soak, Personal Power (x3), Minor Virtue: Great Characteristic (Quick), Minor Virtue: Long-Winded, Minor Virtue: Sharp Ears, Minor Virtue: Tough, Minor Virtue: Wilderness Sense; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Territorial* +6, Stag* +3, Protective* +3, Brave +2, Lecherous +2, Reclusive +1''
''Reputations: Lucky 2 (local) Combat: Antlers: Initiative +5, Attack +13, Defense +14, Damage +7 Hooves: Initiative +5, Attack +9, Defense +11, Damage +5 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Animal Handling 5 (deer), Animal Resistance 3 (teeth), Athletics 4 (running), Awareness 4 (predators), Brawl 6 (antlers), Penetration 2 (Mentem effects), Terram Resistance 4 (arrow heads), Stealth 4 (hiding), Survival 3 (forest), Wilderness Sense 4 (forage) Powers: Defense of the Herd, 2 points, Init –1, Animal  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group  When the White Stag is present in a group of deer, the deer fight as a trained group and all of their defense rolls are at +2.  ReAn 40 (Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost) Confuse Predator, 0 points, Init +2, Animal or Mentem  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind  This power allows the Stag to confuse his enemies, both man and beast, in a manner similar to Confusion of the Numbed Will (ArM5, page 151). The victim of the power must be able to see the Stag to be affected.  ReMe(An) 20 (Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun): Greater Power (20 levels, –2 Might cost, 15xp in Penetration +1 Init) Great Leap, 0 points, Init +1, Animal  R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind  The Stag is able to leap instantly up to 30 paces vertically or 50 paces horizontally. The Stag must make a Dexterity – Encumbrance stress roll of 0+ to land without injury.  ReAn 15 (Base 15): Personal Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost) Shriek of the Impending Shafts, 1 point, Constant, Herbam  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Hearing  Works as the spell of the same name. Adds 	+9 to Defense scores against wooden weapons, if the Stag has room to dodge and allows him to automatically avoid wooden missiles fired from more than 10 paces away. (See ArM5, page 136).  InHe 20 (Base 2, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing, +1 Constant): Personal Power (20 levels, –1''
''Might cost) Trackless Step, 0 point, Constant, Terram  R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind  The Stag leaves no tracks in the earth except when he stops, such as to eat, sleep, or fight.  ReTe 15 (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Constant): Personal Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost) Natural Weapons: The Stag’s antlers are Init +2, Atk +3, Dfn +2, Dam +3 and his hooves are Init +2, Atk +2, Dfn +2, Dam +1. Vis: 4 pawns of Rego vis in his antlers. Appearance: A large elk with a pure white coat and an impressive rack of antlers. The White Stag does not ever shed its antlers as mundane deer do.''
''The White Stag of the Wood is a powerful magical elk that rules a large forest. The Stag prevents predators from over-hunting the forest and keeps other animal populations from outgrowing their food supply. The Stag selects the weakest animals when it must thin a herd, but attacks the pack leader when predators over-hunt their prey. Although the local peasants tell stories of the Stag, and sighting it is seen as a sign of good luck, the White Stag only becomes concerned with humans when they hunt his woods. In most areas of Mythic Europe, only nobility are allowed to hunt deer. When the Stag encounters a noble who hunts too aggressively, the Stag presents himself to the noble and taunts him into chasing him. While the noble is futilely hunting the White Stag, the other deer remain safe. If this does not protect the herd, the Stag will treat the noble as it would any other predator. The White Stag’s antlers may be Enriched by wrapping them in the hide of the Stag under the light of a full moon. For one week, the bundle must be exposed to the light of the moon and may not touch the earth. At the end of the period, anyone holding both antlers is granted the Wilderness Sense Virtue with an Ability of 3.''

===Wise Owl of the Forest===

''Magic Might: 17 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +1, Str –6, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +6 Size: –4 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Champion; Wilderness Sense, Improved Characteristics (x2); Gossip, Indiscreet;''
''Busybody, Nocturnal Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Gift of Speech, Improved Abilities (x4), Minor Virtue: Animal Ken, Minor Virtue: Improved Characteristics (x2), Minor Virtue: Gift of Tongues*, Minor Virtue: Keen Eyes, Minor Virtue: Unaffected by The Gift; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Loquacious* +6, Owl* +3, Inquisitive* +3 Combat: Claws: Initiative +5, Attack +5, Defense +12, Damage –4 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Animal Ken 4 (forest animals), (Area) Lore 6 (woods), Athletics 5 (flying), Awareness 4 (rodents), Bargain 3 (small talk), Brawl 2 (dodging), Charm 3 (inspiring confidence), Faerie Lore 4 (vis sources), Folk Ken 3 (travelers), Hunt 2 (rodents), Magic Lore 4 (regiones), Penetration 2 (Animal), Survival 3 (woods), Wilderness Sense 3 (find prey) Powers: Immobilize Prey, 0 points, Init +6, Mentem or Animal.  R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind  Any creature that makes eye contact with the Owl is unable to move and may only make small whining or moaning sounds. The target may move only if he successfully makes a Strength roll against an Ease Factor of 9.  ReMe(An) 15 (Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Conc): Greater Power (15 levels, –2 Might cost, 15xp in Penetration, +2 Init) *Gift of Tongues: Minor, Heroic Virtue, Allows the character to understand and speak any language as long as she communicates directly with someone else who is fluent in that language. Others who hear the character’s words and who understand that language can understand what the character is saying. The character cannot carry on a conversation in multiple languages, but can act as a translator for two or more people who do not have this virtue. (See Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 105.) Natural Weapons: The Owl’s claws are Init –1, Atk +2, Dfn +3, Dam +2. Vis: 4 pawns of dedicated Intellego Mentem vis in his skull. Appearance: A grey owl with very large iceblue eyes.''
''The Owl can fly silently and has exceptional senses. It can see equally well at night or during the day. The Owl knows the woods very well and monitors the activities within them closely. The Owl questions the animals throughout the forest and shares what information she gathers, although most non-magical animals have little interest in her news. The Owl can understand human speech. She generally avoids direct contact with humans, but is curious and will monitor them when they enter her wood. Because the Owl is only able to carry on a conversation with other intelligent animals, she is''
''often bored and starved for conversation. She occasionally talks with magi who enter the wood, as she finds them more receptive to carrying on a discussion with a talking owl than others. The owl’s skull may be Enriched by boiling it in water with rare oils and sage until no flesh remains. The skull must then be kept at the highest point on the tallest tree in the forest in which the owl lived for one season. After that period, while the skull is hung around a character’s neck, she possesses the Gift of Tongues Virtue.''
''Creatures from the Bestiaries''
''Bestiaries (books about the characteristics and behavior of beasts) were a common literary form in the Middle Ages. Most medieval bestiaries are based on Physiologus, an anonymous first-century Greek manuscript. Medieval writers attributed remarkable powers and properties to certain animals. In Ars Magica Fifth Edition, only rare, Magical specimens (Beasts of Virtue) possess these magical qualities. The following short examples should help troupes design Beasts of Virtue for their own stories. See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (page 41) for several additional beasts of legend. In Ethiopia are said to live Ants of Virtue that are the size of dogs. They dig up gold and guard it fiercely. The Antelope of Virtue is very wild. Pierre de Beauvais writes that no hunter dares approach it. It has two horns, which are like saws and which can actually cut down trees when rubbed against them. But sometimes it gets its horns caught in a thicket and then becomes easy prey. The Ape of Virtue loves to imitate men. Apes are found in Europe only in Iberia, near the Straits of Gibraltar (this animal, the Barbary ape, is actually a monkey and has a tail). There are several types of Asp of Virtue, distinguished by their venom: the dipsa makes one die of thirst, the ypnalis sends its victims to sleep, the emorrosis makes its victims sweat blood, and the venom of the seps devours the body and bones of its prey. All asps are easily charmed by music. When a musician tries to charm it, the asp plugs its ears by pressing one ear against the ground and inserting its tail into the other. Pierre de Beauvais writes that the asp guards a tree from which oozes a valuable balm. Other bestiaries say the asp has a gem called a carbuncle on its forehead. The testicles of the male Beaver of Virtue have medicinal properties (and perhaps Creo vis). When hunted, the beaver castrates itself and throws its testicles to the hunter so it can escape with its life. The beaver is a gentle animal, but its teeth are so strong they can cut down trees, which it uses for building its dam. Bees of Virtue are created spontaneously from the rotting carcasses of cattle. Maggots appear in the carcasses and later turn into bees. Despite these humble origins, bees come together to form a kind of model society. They work in common, building their homes with great skill and producing wax and honey. Each beehive is ruled by a king (not a queen).''

[|
''Bestiary Story Seeds''
''•	 An avaricious magus has imported Ethiopian ants to mine gold for him, but now he cannot get the gold away from its guardians. He asks the covenant for help, but there are too many giant Ants of Virtue to simply defeat in battle. •	 Something has been cutting down trees in a faerie forest. The faeries blame neighboring humans (perhaps the covenant), but an Antelope of Virtue is actually responsible. •	 A magus who is over-fond of casting spells in public gets an unwanted admirer: an Ape of Virtue who begins mimicking his magical gestures. This is a minor annoyance until the ape begins stealing the magus’s hat, robes, books, and Talisman in order to look more wizardly. •	 Magi want the balm from the Asp of Virtue’s tree (or the gem from its forehead) and they learn of its vulnerability to music. How can they overcome its defense? •	 A Beaver of Virtue has constructed a giant dam downriver from the covenant, causing the the covenant to flood as the land it sits on is quickly submerged underneath an artificial lake. •	 The king of the Bees of Virtue refuses to pay tribute to the Lion of Virtue. Both rulers ask the magi to take sides in the conflict. See also “the Honey of Kings” in Covenants, page 75. •	 The crows in a magical area make it hard for the magi to hunt other Beasts of Virtue, because the crows keep warning beasts about the characters’ traps and ambushes. Little do they know that''
''this is actually a Crow of Virtue. •	 A peasant accidentally discovers that his dog can heal wounds with its tongue and he begins using it to help his neighbors. Once word of the “miraculous” dog spreads, thieves steal the Dog of Virtue and try to use it for profit. When the magi hear of this, do they try to return the dog to its owner, or take it for themselves? Keep in mind the dog’s loyalty to its original master. •	 A ship carrying an important passenger has been wrecked. Some of the survivors saw a dolphin carrying that passenger away on its back. Where has the Dolphin of Virtue taken her? •	 Magi seek the fountain where Eagles of Virtue rejuvenate themselves, which they infer has magical properties. Following the eagles is, of course, easier said than done. Is the magic in the fountain, or in the eagle? •	 A hedge wizard has found a way to communicate with the Echeneis of Virtue and is now working closely with a band of pirates. The fish stops passing ships so the pirates can attack them. •	 A wise old elephant witnessed longago events of great interest to the magi. The characters must first find the proper elephant. Then the Elephant of Virtue insists they give it a mandrake root before it will cooperate. •	 A Fox of Virtue wants to get inside the covenant, but the Aegis of the Hearth keeps it out. So the fox pretends to be dead, hoping to be carried inside, where it then revives to wreak mischief.''

|]
''Soothsayers declare that the Crow of Virtue knows the paths of treachery, and can predict the future. There are many kinds of Dog of Virtue. Medieval bestiaries usually portray the dog as a devoted companion of man. Dogs are considered to be among the most intelligent of beasts, for they can recognize their own names. A Magical dog may be able to heal wounds by licking them with its tongue, and binding a live Magical puppy to a patient’s body can heal internal injuries. Body parts of a Dog of Virtue may have magical properties: medieval sources cite their usefulness in spells of warding. The Dolphin of Virtue is the fastest fish in the ocean and is fond of racing alongside ships. Dolphins are friendly to man and sometimes rescue drowning sailors. They are very fond of music and will gather to listen. When they play and leap in heavy waves, it means a storm is coming soon. The Eagle of Virtue has such wonderful eyesight that nothing can be hidden from its gaze. When the eagle is old, its wings grow heavy and its eyes grow dim. It then flies up to the sun to burn the feathers off its wings and the mist from its eyes. Then it dives three times into a fountain, after which it emerges, restored to health. Some eagles have a magical stone built into their nests (see Aetites in Covenants, page 82). The Echeneis (Remora) of Virtue is a small fish, about six inches long, that can attach itself to ships. So great is its power that the ship is slowed to a standstill, no matter how strong the wind. The Elephant of Virtue lives three hundred years and is very wise. The elephant is said never to forget. It is gentle by nature and sometimes aids lost travelers. Elephants must eat the root of the mandrake (see the Plants of Virtue section in Chapter 8, Magic Things) before they can mate. The Fox of Virtue is full of trickery. It feigns death to attract carrion birds, then devours them. It never runs in a straight line. Fox kits are born as unformed, shapeless lumps of flesh until their mother licks them into shape. The wild Goat of Virtue is the best climber of all the beasts and its eyesight is so keen it can distinguish hunters from simple travelers at a great distance. The he-goat is so full of lust that its blood is hot enough to dissolve even diamond. The Goose of Virtue is a good watchman and can smell the scent of humans better than any other animal. In ancient times, geese alerted the city of Rome to an attack by the Gauls. The fat of a goose has medicinal properties.''
''The Hare of Virtue is light-footed, swift, and timid. It can change sex, so it is sometimes male and sometimes female. Pliny the Elder writes that the hares of the Alps subsist on snow throughout the winter, causing them to turn white. The Hercinia of Virtue is a bird that dwells in the forest of southern Germany. Its feathers glow so brightly that at night they can light a traveler’s path. The Hoopoe of Virtue is a foul bird that builds its nest from filth and makes its home near cemeteries. Its blood and heart are powerful ingredients in black magic (see Objects of Virtue in Chapter Eight: Magic Things).''
''The Kingfisher of Virtue is called the halcyon in Latin. It lays its eggs by the seashore in mid-winter, at the height of the storm season. The sea then becomes calm for a period of two weeks; sailors are always grateful for these “halcyon days.” The Lynx of Virtue has keen vision. Its most unusual property is that its urine hardens into a semi-precious, flame-colored stone (called lyncuriam). The lynx always hides these stones by burying them. The Mouse of Virtue, like the frog, can be born spontaneously from the soil. Pliny the Elder writes that some mice instinctively gnaw at iron, and that mice are the most pro''

[|
''Bestiary Story Seeds (con’t)''
''•	 The magi befriend a sharp-eyed Goat of Virtue and convince it to keep a lookout for strangers in their territory. A rival covenant that is fond of trespassing makes an accusation of magical scrying. •	 The covenfolk begin raising geese, but to the magi’s annoyance, one goose ­— the Goose of Virtue — will not stay quiet at night. This is because a stranger is prowling around the covenant after dark. •	 A magus wants to collect snow-fed hares from the Alps, perhaps as a vis source or perhaps to fulfill a Study Requirement (ArM5, page 59). This requires an expedition high into the mountains where the Hare of Virtue lives, under dangerous winter conditions. •	 Characters traveling through the forest at night encounter a Hercinia of Virtue, which assumes they are lost and tries to help them by leading them to the regio where it lives. Do the characters make a detour to follow the bird, and if so, can they find their way back? •	 An evil magus uses the blood of a Hoopoe of Virtue to dabble in black magic. Since the blood is not an Arcane Connection to its user, tracking down the real culprit may be difficult. •	 The Kingfisher of Virtue that traditionally nests near a seaside village has moved away and the villagers ask the magi to bring it back. What drove it away in the first place? •	 The covenant receives a windfall of gems when a Lynx of Virtue wanders into the nearby area. When they sell some of the gems, an outside magus obtains one and uses it as an Arcane Con''
''nection to capture the lynx for himself. •	 A character imprisoned in a dungeon is set free by a Mouse of Virtue, which magically appears from the earth and gnaws away the prisoner’s fetters. •	 An Owl of Virtue is suspicious of the magi’s intentions and sends other birds to spy on their activities. •	 A character whose familiar or animal companion has died learns of the pelican’s power and seeks a Pelican of Virtue in the hope that it can revive any dead animal, not just its own chicks. •	 An ailing character is brought healing herbs by a Weasel of Virtue; later, the weasel asks for the character’s help against serpents. •	 The magi hear rumors of a small island on which grow magical plants. The island is actually a Whale of Virtue that moves slowly about the seas, appearing in a different place each season. Over time, the whale leads the magi to strange new lands farther and farther from their home port. •	 A Wolf of Virtue has begun terrorizing lone travelers near the covenant. So far, no humans have been attacked, but the Redcaps demand the covenant deal with the menace. •	 One of the magi takes a Woodpecker of Virtue as a familiar. However, the bird has a tendency to escape its cage, and when it does it leaves a trail of destruction as every piece of wooden furniture it perches on promptly falls apart. When an interior wall of the main covenant house collapses during the latest jailbreak, the other magi have had enough.''

|]
''lific of all animals. The Owl of Virtue can captivate other birds with its expression; if captured, the owl can charm its captors into setting it free. Seeing an owl during the daytime is widely thought to be a bad omen. The Pelican of Virtue can revive its dead offspring. When the young pelicans are grown, they strike at their parent. The adult pelican grows angry and strikes back with excessive force, killing them. Then the parent pierces its side and sheds its blood over the dead fledglings, bringing them back to life. The Weasel of Virtue is an unclean animal according to the Bible (Leviticus 11:29). Its foul stench pollutes the area around its hole. However, the weasel has an understanding of medicine and can even revive its young if they are killed. The weasel is an enemy to serpents and is the only animal that can kill a basilisk (though the weasel will also die). The Whale of Virtue is even larger than a normal whale. From its mouth comes a sweet odor which draws small fish to their doom (larger fish recognize the danger and stay away). It basks in the sun for months or years at a time, until its back becomes covered with sand and even small plants. When sailors mistake the whale for an island and disembark, the whale awakens and dives into the sea. The Wolf of Virtue is well known for its rapacity. It can live on anything: plants, soil, even the wind; but it hungers for flesh above all else. Should a wolf gaze upon its prey, the creature is paralyzed and struck dumb. The white wolves of House Tremere (see Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 129) are quite similar to Wolves of Virtue, except that a Wolf of Virtue has Cunning instead of Intelligence.''
''When the Woodpecker of Virtue perches on a tree, any nails or wedges driven into the tree immediately fall out. Woodpeckers were used for reading auguries in ancient Rome.''
''Birds of Nephelococcygia''
''Inherited Virtues: Homing Instinct, Keen Vision, Lightning Reflexes. Inherited Flaws: One or more Personality Flaws (Major or Minor, at the player’s choice) should be assigned to the bird based on its type — finches have a Short Attention Span (ArM5, page 58), magpies are Avaricious (ArM5, page 51), eagles are Proud (ArM5, page 59), etc. Nephelococcygia (neh-FEL-oh-cockIG-ee-a) is a magic regio (with an aura of level 10) in the clouds, which is inhabited by intelligent birds. The birds are not Beasts of Virtue, and some, including their king, Tereus, claim to be men who were magically transformed into birds, but it is unclear whether this is true or not. Within Nepheloccocygia is a city of the same name, constructed of nine concentric rings of walls. The walls, made of terracotta bricks liberally splashed with guano, increase in height as they near the center of the city, and contain many recessed nooks and alcoves in which the birds nest. In the city, a cacophony of birdcalls can be heard at all times, and Concentration rolls are at a penalty of –3.''
''At the city center is a spire, one thousand feet high, at the top of which King Tereus nests — he is an epops, a crested bird related to a kingfisher with a long beak, reddish-brown plumage, and black and white wing stripes. The outer wall of the city contains a single gate, barred with a large wooden door, and this must be used by earth-bound visitors who enter the regio. The gatekeeper is named Trochilus, and is a very small brown wren. He is rather scatter-brained, and while dealing with guests he nervously flutters back and forth between the gate and his king in the spire. Fortunately for Trochilus, earth-bound visitors to the regio are rare. Visitors who can fly, via whatever means, can bypass the gate,and are accorded much more respect by the birds. To enter the regio of Nephelococcygia, a character must normally be guided by a bird. All Birds of Virtue know the current location of the regio and how to enter it, as do the Birds of Nephelococcygia themselves. Few mundane birds know the location of the regio, although many have heard of it, and no mundane bird knows how to enter the regio. The entrance to the regio of Nephelococcygia is in fact mobile — it moves about in the wind — but once the entrance has been found a character may predict the path of the regio over the next season if an Intelligence + Magic Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 9 is successful. Usually the regio entrance is located in the Thebes Tribunal, but it sometimes wanders over the Alps and into western Mythic Europe. Regardless of its geographical locale, the entrance to Nephelococcygia is always high in the air on the upper surface of a cloud, so to enter the regio a character must be able to fly, or be carried by a companion or creature that can fly. Bird of Nephelococcygia characters of any season may be encountered outside the regio — most spring and summer characters leave the regio daily to greet the dawn, but older birds stay within the regio for long periods of time. In the middle of winter an Assembly of Birds is held, which must be attended by all Birds of Nephelococcygia; if a character does not attend he is ostracised by the other Birds of Nephelococcygia. Usually little of import is actually discussed at the Assembly, but new songs are performed and criticized in the weeks prior to the Assembly. Rehearsing new songs, and studying the songs of others, occupies a Bird of Nephelococcygia character for an entire season (this is one of the seasons normally unavailable to a companion character). Winter Bird of Nephelococcygia characters frequently have the Major Supernatural Virtue: Composer of Power.''

[|
''Bird of Nephelococcygia Character Guide''
''Magic Might: 11+ (Auram)  (Note +4 for Size). Characteristics: Int –2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com +1, Str –8, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +4 Size: –4 Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Champion; Greater Power*, Greater Power*, Homing Instinct, Keen Vision, Lightning Reflexes; Avaricious. Personality Traits: Bird +3 Reputations: Herald of dawn (local) 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +4, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Talons: Init +4, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage –7''
''Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (flying), Awareness 4 (food), Brawl 2 (dodging), Music 3 (morning song), Survival 3 (home terrain) Powers: Air for Flying, 1 Point, Init: 0, Auram  R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Group  See below. Call the Flock, 1 Point, Init: 0, Animal  R: Special, D: Diam, T: Group  See below. Vis: Auram vis in feathers.''

|]

===Powers of the Birds of Nephelococcygia===

''Command the Flock 1 Point, Init: Qik–4, Animal R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group The character can trill commands to a group of up to 100 birds. The birds will try to obey any command that they can understand (mundane birds can understand commands equivalently to a dog), but they will not do anything obviously suicidal and if the birds have a Magic Resistance this power must Penetrate. The power lasts for a duration of Sun, and after this period the birds will act on their own initiative. ReAn 35 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 cost)''
''The Crow’s Song 2 Points, Init: Qik–4, Corpus R: Voice, D: Special, T: Ind The character sings this song at a target individual, and the next time the target sleeps an Aging Roll is made for him, adding 5 to the roll — even if he is too young to make Aging Rolls normally. This power must penetrate the target’s Magic Resistance to be effective. PeCo 40 (Base 15, +2 Voice, +3 Special Duration): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 cost)''
''Air for Flying 1 Point, Init: Qik–4, Auram R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Group While the character sings this tune, the weather in the locale remains calm and temperate. This will also negate any magically created inclement weather where the magnitude of the effect that caused the inclement weather is less than the character’s Might / 5 (round up). This power has a duration of concentration. ReAu 35 (Base 5, +3 Sight, +1 Concen''
''tration, +2 Group): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 cost)''
''Call the Flock 1 Point, Init: Qik–4, Animal R: Special, D: Diameter, T: Group If the character is in the open air, she may sing a song that summons a cloud of mundane birds about herself. From the next round, 10 birds arrive each round, every round over the next Diameter. The type of birds that arrive''
''depends on the locale; at sea the birds will be mostly seagulls, shags, and shearwaters, for example. When they arrive, the birds attempt to gather about the character, attacking any other characters in the way. If they are not commanded to perform some task, the birds will slowly disperse over the next few hours. This power itself does not grant the character an intrinsic ability to command the flock. ReAn 35 (Base 2, +4 special range, +1 diameter, + 2 Group +2 Size of Group): Greater Power (35 levels, –3 cost)''

===Flight===

''Birds of Nephelococcygia can fly. This is neither a Supernatural Ability nor a Power: the character’s bones are hollow and light, he has powerful feathered wings, and he has a tail. He’s a bird. Maneuvering is represented as a specialty of the Athletics Ability (ArM5, page 64). The character can normally take to the air without requiring a roll, and he has an initiative of Qik + Athletics (flying) for this maneuver. In extreme circumstances (during a storm, for example) a roll (Dexterity + Athletics(flying) + stress die) may be required to take to the air.''

[|
''Story Seed: Divine Gatekeepers''
''According to the Greek playwright Aristophanes (The Birds: tractatus Quality 5 in Magic Lore), the city of Nephelococcygia was constructed to intercept communications between earth and heaven; the birds thus conspiring to insert themselves as gatekeepers of divine intervention. It is unclear whether this ever was true, and certainly the Divine is not now mediated by Nephelococcygia. Despite this, Philomena (a swallow who is the sister-in-law of Tereus, king of the birds) claimed in an interview, recorded at Durenmar over one''
''hundred years ago, that Tereus’ spire in the city does indeed contain records of prayers made over the centuries, which he has kept for reasons of his own. Philomena did not explain how the birds gained access to the prayers, or how the records were made, but finding answers to these questions might interest magi. Reputedly, Philomena was raped and had her tongue torn out by Tereus, so the interviewee may not have actually been Philomena; alternatively, she may have been healed and has told this tale to cause trouble for Tereus as revenge.''

|]
''Realms of Power The Magical Lineages of Cats''
''Three families of cats can trace their ancestry — through generations of familiars and Warped, intelligent ancestors — to the familiars of the Founders or their earliest apprentices. Each of these families, called lineages, has an oral history and a unique culture. They have many magical features that breed almost true, a feature unusual in magical animals.''

===Black Lineage===

''The Black Lineage of cats is descended from the Founder Jerbiton’s familiar, a prince of the Egyptian cats, descended from the great queens of ancient Bubastis. The center of the Black Lineage is the domus magna of Jerbiton, Valnastium in the Tribunal of the Greater Alps, where their elected monarch reigns. But cats of this lineage have followed their magi to many covenants and cities across Europe. They are aristocratic, aloof cats. The members of the Black Lineage see''
''their role as defenders of the home. Common Virtues (or Qualities): Entrancement, Gossip, Greater Magical Power, Intuition, Lesser Magical Power, Luck, Magic Sensitivity, Piercing Gaze, Protection, Second Sight, Self–Confident, Strong Willed, True Faith, Wealthy (has human servants, gets 3 seasons per year to study). Common Flaws (or Inferiorities): Busybody, Dependent (Place), Greedy, Meddler, Optimistic, Oversensitive, Proud, Temperate, Visions, Weakness. Common Magical Powers: Aura of Rightful Authority, Fear of the Mouse, Prison for Mice and Birds, Prying Eyes, Warder’s Walk.''

===White Lineage===

''The White Lineage is descended from the familiar of the Founder Mercere, and its members are found in his House’s covenants. They are indulgent, friendly cats. They see their role as protectors of people. Many adopt a particular human to travel with. Common Virtues (or Qualities): Common Sense, Ferocity, Greater Magical Power, Keen Vision, Lesser Magical Power, Lightning Reflexes, Premonitions, Rapid Convalescence, Second Sight, Shapeshifter (tool– using, bipedal form), Social Contacts, Tough, Warrior (adds to Brawl or conventional weapons in Shapeshifters), Well–traveled.''
''Common Flaws (or Inferiorities): Busybody, Carefree, Compulsion (Territory), Dependent (Owner), Missing Ear, Missing Eye, Overconfident, Reckless. Common Magical Powers: Cat Like a Shadow, Humans are Easily Misplaced, Inconspicuousness, True Sight of the Air''

===Tortoiseshell Lineage===

''This lineage of cats has been associated with Celtic spellcasters since before the formation of the Order. This lineage split into two groups following the Schism War, with a king of cats in both Scotland and the Rhineland. It may have had links to House Diedne. This lineage is most known for its capacity to predict the future. Male tortoiseshells are very rare, and are more often magical than females. They tend to have mixed gender behaviors, which humans don’t notice but are obvious and off-putting to other cats. If this plays a significant part in the campaign, then male tortoiseshells should take the Transvestite Flaw. Common Virtues (or Qualities): Common Sense, Dowsing (does not need stick), Entrancement, Greater Magical Power, Faerie Blood, Ferocity, Gigantic, Keen Vision, Large, Lesser Magical Power, Lesser Purifying Touch (warts), Long–Winded, Premonitions, Reserves of Strength, Rapid Convalescence, Second Sight, Shapeshifter (human), Shapeshifter (if cat also has Large or Gigantic, can shift between two shapes), Wilderness Sense Common Flaws (or Inferiorities): Magi''

[|
''Cats as Example''
''This section on cats demonstrates the method for constructing magical beasts. Storyguides designing parallel sets of powers for other species should borrow relevant powers from these lists, changing their names to suit the species they are creating. They should follow the same mechanical guidelines to create new powers. Ideas for powers can be found by researching the folklore of the species on the Internet — particularly on the sites of breeders — and by perusing medieval bestiaries. In the case of cats, this yields an enormous amount of material, much of which has been ignored because it is not known in 1220 Europe. For example, cat burning is a later practice.''
''Cat Character Template''
''The unadjusted stats for cats are given in the Book of Mundane Beasts appendix. All of the Virtues, Flaws, Abilities and Qualities noted there should, in most cases, be purchased before other items of the same type, when creating a character. To demonstrate the process of creation, the following template has additions due to the creature’s magical nature marked in bold italic.''
''Magic Might: 13 (Animal) (assuming a companion role in medium-power saga and adjusted by Size) Characteristics: Int 0 (Intelligence is a free choice for magical animals) Confidence Score: 1(3) (This is the default score for magical beings) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal, Perfect Balance, Puissant Awareness, Sharp Ears, Unaffected by the Gift, Magical Friend, Nocturnal (requires 2 Flaws to balance Virtues).''
''Qualities: Ambush Predator, Crafty, Good Jumper, Skilled Climber, Thick Fur. (Cats may have 10 points of Qualities; they get a +3 bonus to Might from small Size, but this does not increase the number of Qualities available. Qualities may include General or Supernatural Minor Virtues, so suggested Virtues provided in later lists are sometimes suited as Qualities instead. Similarly, the Flaw lists may give ideas for Inferiorities.)  (The natural Qualities of magical animals are not usually recorded on their character sheets.) Personality Traits: Curious +4, Cat +3*, Timid +2 (Most magical things have a Personality Trait of +3 representing their basic nature)  (The basic cat has 195 experience. A creature of Summer season begins with 360 experience) Vis: 3 pawns, Animal, in eyes. (Might divided by 5, rounded up)''

|]
''cal Air, Feral Upbringing, Judged Unfairly, Reclusive, Transvestite (male cats of this color are extremely rare, and tend to have feminine behaviors). Common Magical Powers: Suckle Cows Dry, Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit, Master of the Undergrowth, Unmarked Passage, Whispers Through the Black Gate.''
''Magical Powers''
''Players designing cats select one magical power for each purchase of the Greater Magical Power or Lesser Magical Power Qualities. Each of these Qualities may be purchased multiple times. Any cat may purchase any power, but some are seen frequently in cats of a certain lineage. Powers frequently seen in a certain tribe of cats are listed in the lineage descriptions, above.''
''Cats’ Greater or Lesser Magical Powers''
''All Greater and Lesser Powers for the magical lineages of cats have:''
''•	 A cost in spell levels for character creation, given just before the detail that explains the spell level. •	 A Penetration Score = Might of the cat – (5 x the cost of the power) + the cat’s Penetration Bonus. This bonus has not been calculated for the sample powers below.''
''The Might point cost given is for a Lesser version of the power. For a Greater version, halve it, rounding up. The Initiative Bonus for a Lesser Power is equal to the cat’s Quickness – (Magnitude x 2). For a Greater Power, the Initiative Bonus is equal to the cat’s Quickness – (Magnitude/2).''
''Aura of Rightful Authority 4 points, Mentem R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind This effect is used to overcome the shock caused by talking cats. It also inclines humans to obey orders. (ArM5, page 151) (20 spell levels: Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''Blackberry Cat or Feigned Innocence, 5 points, Mentem R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Group This causes a Group of people to forget''
''something the cat did, much as the spell Loss of But A Moment’s Memory does (ArM5, page 151). The name comes from the belief that cats born in blackberry season have mischief in them. (25 spell levels: Base 10, +1 Eye, +2 Group)''
''Curse of Rheumatism 2 points, Corpus R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind If a person touches the cat, he develops rheumatism in that limb. This power is traditionally used on those who kick cats. (10 spell levels: Base 5, as per laming in table on ArM5, page 133, + 1 Touch)''
''Drain Energy 3 points, Corpus R: Touch or Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind This power, similar to Invocation of Weariness (ArM5, page 133), has either a Touch or Eye Range; it varies by cat. (15 spell levels: Base 10, +1 Touch or Eye)''
''Fear of the Mouse 3 points, Mentem R: Eye, D: Sun T: Ind This power, similar to Panic of the Trembling Heart (ArM5, page 148) is often used to make people afraid of the cat. Many cats have alternative emotional effects. (15 spell levels: Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''Feline Lullaby or Keeping the Humans Safely Tucked Away, 2 points, Mentem R: Voice, D: Mom T: Ind This is a version of The Call to Slumber (ArM5, page 151). (10 spell levels: Base 4, +2 Voice)''
''Humans are Easily Misplaced 4 points, Corpus R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind A version of Inexorable Search (ArM5, page 131). The maps cats use are a mixture of scents and textures, and make little sense to humans. This requires an Arcane Connection, so cats often scent–mark humans they wish to find again by rubbing on them. (20 spell levels: Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc)''
''Incredibly Cute 2 points, Mentem R: Touch or Eye, D: Diam T: Ind This ability, similar to Trust of Childlike Faith (ArM5, page 150) allows the cat to become so endearing that it impairs the rationality of others. Some cats have an Eye contact version of this ability, while others have a Touch Ranged power, triggered by stroking the cat.''
''(10 spell levels: Base 4, +1 Eye or Touch, +1 Diam)''
''Mackerel Sky 4 points, Auram R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group A version of Sailor’s Foretaste of the Morrow (ArM5, page 127). (20 spell levels: Base 4, + 1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 size)''
''Master of the Undergrowth 2 points, Herbam R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group A version of Intuition of the Forest (ArM5, page 136). (10 spell levels: Base 1, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group)''
''Minor Allergy 2 points, Corpus R: Sight, D: Mom T: Ind A Sight Ranged version of Touch of the Goose Feather (ArM5, page 132). (10 Spell levels: Base 3, +3 Sight)''
''Moving Objects with the Mind 6 points, Terram R: Sight, D: Conc T: Ind A Sight Ranged version of Unseen Arm (ArM5, page 155), used by cats to manipulate objects — when humans are not available. (30 spell levels: Base 2, +3 Sight, +1 Conc)''
''Pass the Unyielding Portal 1 point; Herbam R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind A version of the spell of the same name, used when no humans are available to open doors. (ArM5, page 137) (5 spell levels: Base 3, +1 Touch +1 Diam.)''
''Prison for Mice and Birds 1 point, Animal R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle This is a version of Circle of Beast Warding (ArM5, page 120). It is sometimes used in conjunction with the Greater Magical Powers, described below. (5 spell levels: Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Ring)''
''Prying Eyes 1 point, Imaginem R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Room This effect is used to look inside buildings and rooms while patrolling a house or town. Note that a cat touching the roof of a room can see inside it. (ArM5, page 144). (5 spell levels: Base 1, +1 Touch, +1 Conc +2 Room)''
''Suck the Breath 3 points, Corpus R: Eye or Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The cat causes an asthma attack with the same effects as Grip of the Choking Hand (ArM5, page 133) but with either Eye or Touch range (choose when the cat is created.) (15 spell levels: Base 10, +1 Eye or Touch)''
''Suckle Cows Dry 3 points, Animal R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind This power is used to make a cow lactate while a cat suckles from its udders. Cats filling themselves with milk often find it difficult to maintain concentration, so it is common to find cats working in groups, to restrain a cow in turns. (15 spell levels: Base 5, + 1 Touch, +1 Conc)''
''Suffocate the Dead Cost equals (Magnitude / 5), Mentem R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind Some cats can create an effect similar to Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (ArM5, page 150) by sitting or sleeping on the ghost’s grave.''
''If several cats sleep on the same grave their Penetration scores are added together, and the highest level effect applies, so even powerful ghosts can be destroyed this way, with sufficient co-operation and persistence. This does not require Warder’s Walk, although no one is sure why. (Spell levels vary. Base Effect)''
''Viper’s Gaze 3 points, Animal R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind A variant of the spell of the same name (ArM5, page 120), used to immobilize prey. (15 spell levels: Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration)''
''Wake the Dead 4 points, Corpus R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind Some cats are able to animate corpses by leaping over them, a power similar to a Touch Ranged version of Awaken the Slumbering Corpse (ArM5, page 134). Reports of this power are most common in Eastern Europe, and may refer to Infernally tainted cats. Some cats claim to be able to wake the dead with their nightly singing, but this may be a metaphor.''
''(20 spell levels: Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Conc)''
''Warder’s Walk Magnitude points, Vim. R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group Cats in the Black Lineage use this power to combine their other powers. This allows their rituals to penetrate the Magic Resistance of creatures they wish to ward. It is a variant of Wizard’s Communion. Use of the Warder’s Walk is dangerous, as the addition of too many cats makes a fatal botch very likely, so the cats use this power sparingly. (Spell levels vary by base effect.)''
''Whispers Through the Black Gate 3 points, Corpus R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind The ability to talk to corpses is found most often in tortoiseshells (ArM5, page 130). (15 spell levels: Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, no cost for requisite)''

===Black Cat Wards===

''The Black Cats that serve House Jerbiton have a group of powers that they use to defend a home, or even a small settlement, from minor faeries and demons. Each cat is likely to have only one of these abilities, so groups of cats, each with a separate ability, will often walk the bounds of their settlement to lay multiple protective barriers. Some of these powers are also found in the other lineages, but the Black habit of marching in procession around the border of a protected space is not found in the other lineages. The Black Lineage is also most likely to use Warder’s Walk, a Power that allows for wards of greater Magnitude. The protective powers often available to cats of the Black Lineage include simulations of the following spells. Various cats have differing Magnitudes in these powers.''
''Circular Ward Against Demons Magnitude points, Vim R: Touch, T: Ring, D: Circle See ArM5, page 162 for a fuller description of this effect. (Spell levels vary by base spell)''
''Ward Against Beasts of Legend Magnitude points, Animal R: Touch, T: Ring, D: Circle See ArM5, page 120 for a fuller description of this effect. (Spell levels vary by base spell)''
''Ward Against the Faeries of the Wood Magnitude points, Herbam R: Touch, T: Ring, D: Circle See ArM5, page 138 for a fuller description of this effect. (Spell levels vary by base spell)''
''Ring of Warding Against Spirits Magnitude points, Mentem R: Touch, T: Ring, D: Circle See ArM5, page 151 for a fuller description of this effect. (Spell levels vary by base spell)''
''Cats with other wards that contain fire, protect from poor weather, and exclude crop rusts have also been frequently reported.''
''Personal Magical Powers for Cats''
''All Personal Powers for the magical lineages of cats have: : •	 An Initiative bonus equal to the cat’s Quickness – (Magnitude /2). •	 A cost in spell levels for character creation, given just before the detail the explains the spell level. •	 A Penetration Score = Might of the cat – (5 x the cost of the power) + the cat’s Penetration Bonus. This bonus has not been calculated for the sample powers below.''
''Cat Like a Shadow 2 points, Init: Qik –1, Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind A personal version of Veil of Invisibility, as per ArM5, page 146. (15 spell levels: Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 changing image)''
''Felianthrope 2 points, Init: Qik–1, Animal R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind The cat takes human shape. This is a Personal version of The Beast Remade (ArM5, page 119). (20 spell levels: Base 10, +2 Sun, no addition for requisite)''
''Inconspicuousness 1 point, Init: Qik–1, Imaginem R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind A Personal version of Invisibility of the''
''Standing Wizard (ArM5, page 146) (20 spell levels: Base 4, +2 Sun)''
''Puffed Up and Hissing 1 point, Init: Qik–1, Animal R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind The cat puffs itself up to fight, and magic grants it extra mass. A Personal version of Beast of Outlandish Size (ArM5, page 118). (10 spell levels: Base 4, +2 Sun)''
''Resistance to Claws 1 point, Init: Qik–1, Animal R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind The cat’s coat becomes resistant to damage. A Personal version of Doublet of Impenetrable Silk (ArM5, page 118.) (10 spell levels: Base 4, +2 Sun)''
''True Sight of the Air 2 points, Init: Qik–1, Auram R: Per, D: Sun, T: Vision A version of the spell of the same name (ArM5, page 127). (15 spell levels: Base 1, +2 Sun, +4 Vision)''
''Unmarked Passage 2 points, Init: Qik–1, Terram R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind A version of the spell Trackless Step (ArM5, page 155). (20 spell levels: Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 for constant effect)''
''Dragons and Dragon-kind''
''Dragons are the largest and most fearsome of mortal creatures. They are renowned for their cunning, wickedness, and lust for treasure. Related to dragons, but less powerful, are a variety of reptilian creatures: the serpents, drakes, and worms. Serpents are the least of the dragons’ kin, little more than glorified snakes. They almost always have a venomous bite or sting. In addition, many have the power to entrance their victims. Basilisks (see Guardians of the Forest, page 61) are the mightiest of serpents. Mundanes use the term “serpent” interchangeably to refer to both dragons and snakes; when magi use the term strictly, they are referring to a snake-like supernatural creature that has no exact mundane counterpart.''
''Drakes are caricatures of dragons, usually misshapen in some way. They tend to be less intelligent than true dragons, but may possess a certain predatory cunning. All drakes have legs (either two or four) and many have wings, though frequently their wings are too stunted for actual flight. A few drakes have multiple heads. Drakes usually have dangerous breath, which may be fiery, poisonous, or cause disease. Magi in the far north of Mythic Europe have reported colddwelling drakes that breathe a deadly frost instead of fire. The smallest drakes are no bigger than a chicken, while the largest can outweigh an elephant. Worms are like huge serpents; indeed, some magi believe serpents and worms are two names for the same class of creatures. Worms sometimes have stunted legs or wings, but their primary means of locomotion is slithering like a snake. Worms are typically venomous and some can exhale a cloud of poisonous or pestilential fumes. Others breathe fire. In addition to biting, most of them are able to crush or suffocate victims in their deadly coils. True dragons are mighty and wily opponents. They are intelligent — sometimes more intelligent than magi — and this intelligence can be their greatest weapon against mortals foolhardy enough to challenge them. True dragons have four legs and a pair of bat-like wings (which may or may not be functional). Dragon’s powers may include the deadly breath, entrancing gaze, or venom shared by their lesser kin. The more powerful dragons can also change shape, create illusions, or produce other magical effects. The smallest true dragons are somewhat smaller than an adult human, while the largest can be as big as a castle. Stellatus (on page 194 of ArM5) is on the small side for a dragon at Size +8. Slaying a major dragon is a feat worthy of legend, a suitable challenge for a whole covenant of senior wizards. The largest dragons are so physically powerful, they are beyond anything the rules of Ars Magica Fifth Edition can represent. Such creatures are too big and too well-armored in iron-hard scales to be harmed by mortal weapons. Characters should have to come up with an innovative plan to defeat such a mighty opponent: perhaps questing for a legendary weapon, or searching the Magic Realm for lore that reveals the dragon’s hidden weakness.''
''Realms of Power Dragons as Characters''
''While the classic dragon is much too powerful to use as a player character, one can create a fairly weak dragon using the rules in Chapter 4: Magic Characters, suitable for use as a grog, companion, or magus-equivalent character — or as a character’s Magical (Being) Companion. For dragons meant as non-player characters, it’s not necessary to strictly obey the Ars Magica Fifth Edition character-creation rules; for instance, there’s no need to make sure a mighty dragon’s Virtues are all properly balanced with Flaws. Dragons are supposed to be powerful.''

===Concept===

''Dragons and their kin have base Characteristics of 0, and 7 points to spend on improving Characteristics (like human characters). The base Size of all dragons and dragon-kind is at least 0. This can be adjusted by choosing appropriate Virtues or Flaws, or Inferiorities for small dragon-kind. In addition, the base Size can be any Size greater than 0. This adjusts Quickness and Strength as described under the Gigantic Quality, but the character does not need to buy that Quality. All dragons, and their lesser kin, should begin with the special Virtue, Magic Animal.''
''Most dragon-kind have the Minor Magic Quality Gift of Speech. Suggested Virtues for dragons include: Entrancement, Greater Immunity (to fire or poison), Magic Sensitivity, Premonitions, Second Sight, Arcane Lore, Enduring Constitution, Great Characteristic, Improved Characteristics, Lightning Reflexes, Piercing Gaze, Puissant Ability, Self-Confident, Strong-Willed, Magical Champion, Magical Master, (Form) Resistance Suggested Flaws include Avaricious (major), Magical Monster, Magical Air, Magical Bane, Oversensitive, Nocturnal, Offensive to Animals, Infamous, Essential Flaw.''

===Season and Abilities===

''Dragons and their kin may be of any Season. Serpents are more likely to be Spring characters than are other dragon-kind, and true dragons are more likely to be Winter than their lesser relatives. If the creature is intended as a combat opponent, it is important for it to have a good Brawl skill. Its combat statistics may be further improved through Qualities.''

===Might Score and Qualities===

''If the dragon is to be one of the player characters or their close associates, assign a Might score according to the desired power level of the Saga (see Chapter 4: Magic Characters, Magic Character Creation). The Might scores of other dragons and dragon-kind should fall into the following general ranges:''
''Might Score	 Description 1–10 Serpents and very weak drakes 11–20 Powerful serpents, weak  drakes, and worms 21–30 The mightiest serpents (a  basilisk is about Might 30),  typical drakes and worms,  weak dragons 31–40 Typical dragons, powerful  worms and drakes. Drakes  above Might 40 are rare. 41–50 Powerful dragons 51–74 Dragons of might and legend 75 Jörmungandr, the Midgard  Serpent''

[|
''Character Guide: A Scitalis''
''Magic Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun +1, Per +2, Pre +4, Com –3, Str –2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik –2 Size: –2 Season: Spring Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Great Presence; Poor Quickness, Weak Characteristics Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (x2); Improved Might, Improved Powers, Improved Soak; Miniature; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Lethargic +2, Territorial +2 Combat: Fangs: Init –2, Attack +7, Defense +3, Damage –1 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (fangs), Ignem Resistance 3 (cold), Survival 2 (winter) Powers: Dazzling Appearance, 0 points, Init –3, Mentem or Animal  R:Per, D: Conc, T: Spectacle  The scitalis can use its wondrous colors and appearance to stupefy those who look at it. Victims stand in slack-jawed amazement, unable to move, speak, or act, for as long as the scitalis concentrates. It uses this power to capture its prey, for it is a slow-moving creature.  ReMe(An) 45 (Base 15, +1 Conc,''
''+4 Spectacle, +1 Animal requisite): Greater Power (45 levels, –1 Might cost), Improved Powers (–3 Might cost), Greater Power (partial, –1 Might cost) Venom, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  R:Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  The scitalis’ fangs drip a venom that causes a Medium Wound (if it penetrates Magic Resistance) unless its victim can make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9.  CrAq 30 (Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 continuous effect): Greater Power (partial, 30 levels, –3 Might cost) Vis: 1 Imaginem in skin Appearance: The scitalis is a large snake, about six feet long and as thick as a man’s arm. Its scales are patterned in a variety of spectacular colors.''
''The scitalis is a slow-moving serpent that relies on its marvelous appearance to stun its prey. The scitalis usually hunts by hiding near a water source or game trail. It usually preys on small animals, but has been known to attack humans if it feels threatened. Unlike mundane snakes, the blood of the scitalis is hot, enabling the serpent to remain active throughout the winter months. This character guide may be used “as is” for a brief encounter, or developed into a finished character by adding 4 points of Virtues to balance its current Flaws (plus additional Virtues and Flaws, if desired) and 50 Experience Points in Abilities.''

|]
''Dragons should choose Qualities for any special attacks they possess; the Improved Powers Quality is also a good choice to help reduce the cost (and boost the Penetration) of their breath or gaze. A dragon’s combat statistics may be improved through liberal use of the Improved Attack, Improved Defense, Improved Damage, and Improved Soak Qualities. It is especially important to enhance the Defense scores of very large dragons, because otherwise their poor Quickness scores (due to the effects of their Size) will make them vulnerable.''

===Varkos, the Fire Drake===

''Magic Might: 15 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –2, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –2, Str +4, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +1 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Great Strength, Large, Piercing Gaze, Tough; Obsessed (with reputation) Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Gift of Speech, Ignem Resistance, Improved Might (x4), Improved Soak (x3); Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Vain +3, Lonely +2, Brave –1 Reputations: Fierce 3 (local) Combat: Claws: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +11, Damage +6 Large Teeth: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +8, Damage +7 Soak: +11 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: (Area) Lore 3 (dragon stories), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 2 (alertness), Brawl 5 (claws), Ignem Resistance 4 (fire drake breath), Folk Ken 2 (sensing fear), Guile 3 (feigning fierceness), Hunt 3 (hares), Leadership 2 (intimidation), Stealth 2 (stalking), Survival 3 (mountains) Powers: Puff of Flame, 1 point, Init +1, Ignem  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  Varkos can spit a cabbage-sized ball of flame out to about 15 paces, inflicting +5 damage.  CrIg 10 (Base 4, +2 Voice): Greater Power (10 levels) Torrent of Flame, 2 points, Init +1, Ignem''
''R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Group  With some effort, Varkos can belch forth an impressive torrent of flame about 30 paces long and five paces wide. All within that area take +15 fire damage.  CrIg 35 (Base 15, +2 Voice, +2 Group): Greater Power (35 levels, –1 Might cost) Vis: 3 Ignem in heart Appearance: Varkos is a misshapen dragon with a a build like a bulldog’s: massive shoulders and smaller hindquarters. His head is crocodile-like and has a pronounced underbite. His bat-like wings are ridiculously small, but he sometimes flaps them furiously in a vain attempt to fly. He has a spiny ridge running from his forehead all along his body, but the spines poke out drunkenly in different directions.''
''Varkos is a fire drake who desperately wants to be thought of as a fearsome dragon. He knows quite a bit about dragon stories, and tries his best to act like the dragons of legend. (His treasure hoard is coming along nicely; it’s almost big enough to fill two hand baskets.) Varkos lives in a cave overlooking a mountain pass, from which he ventures forth to prey upon livestock and set the occasional haystack on fire. He usually tries to scare away humans rather than hurt them; dead men tell no tales, and Varkos is working hard to build up a reputation. Lately he has worked up enough nerve to start robbing travelers of their treasure, and is looking forward to the time when terrified villagers will bring him his first virgin sacrifice. (He has no idea what exactly a virgin is or what real dragons are supposed to do with them.) One of the reasons Varkos tries so hard to be terrifying is that he wants to attract a''
''mate. Living in a cave in the mountains can be lonely and rather boring. He enjoys his encounters with humans because they give him a chance to talk to someone, however briefly. Unfortunately, Varkos is not the best conversationalist; he is mostly interested in hearing stories about dragons. Characters might be able to befriend him if they pretend to be afraid of him, tell some entertaining stories, and promise to spread wild tales about how they met the “dragon of the mountains” and barely escaped with their lives.''

===Arkliss, a Dragon of the Fens===

''Magic Might: 22 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +3, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Arcane Lore, Improved Characteristics (x3), Lightning Reflexes, Self''

[|
''Claw and Fang''
''The weapon statistics for a dragon’s claws and teeth as are follows. Dragons larger than Size +2 usually have large claws and/or large teeth.''
''Init	 Atk Dfn	 Dam Claws –1 +2 +3 +2 Large Claws 0 +5 +3 +4 Fangs/Teeth 0 +3 +1 +1 Large Teeth 0 +4 +1 +3''
''Option: Constriction Attacks''
''Medieval bestiaries speak of dragons strangling elephants with their tails or coils. Many dragons and their lesser kin can attack by constriction. This ability is especially common among worms and large serpents. The following constriction rules are optional. If you prefer to keep combat uncomplicated, simply ignore the constriction attacks listed for dragons in this chapter. A dragon can only constrict a victim whose Size is less than its own. Constriction is based on the grappling rules (see “Non-Lethal Combat” on page 174 of ArM5). The Attack Total is computed using the Brawl skill, and a constriction at''
''tack has the following weapon statistics: Init 0, Atk +3, Dfn 0, Dam n/a As long as the dragon maintains the grapple, its opponent is considered deprived of air (see ArM5, page 180). The victim must make a Stamina check every 30 seconds, that is, every five rounds, or suffer the normal effects of deprivation. Constriction is a slow way to slay an opponent. Once the dragon has successfully grappled an opponent (and begun constricting), on subsequent rounds it can continue constricting and still attack with its claws or bite. These attacks may be directed at the grappled victim, or at another opponent.''

|]
''Confident; Essential Flaw (avaricious, major) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (x2); Gift of Speech, Improved Attack (x2), Improved Damage (x2), Improved Defense (x2), Improved Fatigue, Improved Might (x2), Improved Powers, Improved Soak (x5), Personal Power; Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Avaricious* +6, Brave +3, Cruel +3 Reputations: Evil 3 (local) Combat: Teeth: Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +11, Damage +5''
''Claws: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +12, Damage +6 Soak: +12 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: (Area) Lore 2 (legends), Athletics 3 (flying), Awareness 2 (hearing), Bargain 2 (ransom), Brawl 5 (teeth), Folk Ken 2 (peasants), Hunt 3 (waterfowl), Intrigue 2, Magic Lore 4 (magical beasts), Penetration 3 (Auram), Stealth 2 (underwater), Survival 3 (swamps), Swim 4 (underwater)''
''Powers: Domination, 1 points, Init +1, Mentem  R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind  By gazing into a person’s eyes, Arkliss can bend him to her will. The victim will carry out one verbal command to the best of his ability, but he must be able to understand Arlkiss’s orders. People do not normally want to make eye contact with Arkliss, however. To use this power, she must catch her victim by surprise.  ReMe 40 (Base 20, +1 Eye, +3 Moon): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost), Improved Powers (1 mastery point, –1 Might cost) Pestilential Breath, 1 points, Init +1, Auram  R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Group  Arkliss can exhale a noxious, cloying mist that infects everyone within five paces with a disease, inflicting a Medium wound unless the victim succeeds in a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9.  CrAu 30 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +2 Group): Greater Power (30 levels, –2 Might cost, 10 xp Penetration) Lungs of the Fish, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part  As the spell on page 122 of ArM5. This power is continuously active.  MuAq 20 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 continuous effect): Personal Power (20 levels, –1 Might cost), Improved Powers (1 mastery point, –1 Might cost) Vis: 4 Vim in brain Appearance: Arkliss is a true dragon about the size of a man. Her wide jaws are full of sharp teeth; she has large, bat-like wings and a barbed tail. She has a forked tongue with which she tastes the air as a snake does.''
''Arkliss is a small but fierce dragon who makes her lair at the bottom of a bog near the middle of a large swamp. She can survive on waterfowl and frogs but much prefers red meat. Nearby peasants attempt to placate her with offerings of sheep and goats, but Arkliss is perfectly willing to hunt for herself. Arkliss used 1 mastery point from her Improved Powers Quality on her Lungs of the Fish power and 1 on Domination, and spent the remaining 3 points on 15 xp in Penetration.''

===Polymathes, the Draconic Librarian===

''Magic Might: 41 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +5, Per +4, Pre +8, Com +3, Str +12, Sta +8, Dex +3, Qik –4''

[|
''Dragon Story Seeds''

===a Scintillating Serpent===

''En route to visit an important magus or noble, the characters stumble upon a scitalis, which tries to bite them as they stand spellbound. Little do they know that the scitalis was a warning from benevolent forces, as it foreshadows their upcoming visit: when they arrive at their destination, their host tries to impress them with lavish gifts and hospitality, while secretly planning to take advantage of them.''

===The Less-than-deadly “dragon”===

''The characters are waylaid by Varkos the fire drake, who demands all their treasure. They strike up a conversation with the “dragon” and Varkos enjoys it so much he forgets to rob them. Later, the characters learn of a young knight out to build a reputation by slaying the “dragon of the mountains.” The knight has obtained a magical ointment to protect himself from flames, so a battle between him and Varkos could be an even match. Can the characters prevent a deadly fight?''

===a Slippery Thief===

''Like most dragons, Arkliss is obsessed with treasure. She has come up with a plan to rob the wealthiest estate in her district — which just happens to be the player characters’ covenant. She sends several Dominated peasants inside the walls, posing as peddlers or pilgrims. At midnight''
''Arkliss arrives, using her Domination power to neutralize any watchmen so her minions can loot the place of valuables. Arkliss does not know anything about enchanted items, but if she learns through her minions how highly the magi value such things, she makes a special effort to steal them for her hoard.''

===a Covetous Creature===

''The magi and their companions are enjoying the hospitality of a local noble, when suddenly the feasting hall shakes violently, and a roar like thunder rolls out across the valley. Unknown to them, a lindwurm witnessed their approach and caught a glimpse of an especially rich item among their belongings. The beast wants this item for itself, and won’t release its hostages until the item is given up.''

===The Serpent’s Scribe===

''Polymathes the draconic librarian has acquired a few Hermetic books over the years, and has decided it’s time to expand his collection. A true connoisseur, he wants only books of high Quality. He is certainly not willing to trade away anything from his own collection, but he would let someone come to his lair and copy a book in exchange for a new tome as payment. If the copyist does a good job, Polymathes decides to employ that person (indefinitely) to copy and trade more Hermetic books. Being a dragon, he does not phrase this as a request.''

|]
''Size: +7 Season: Winter Confidence Score: 3 (9) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Greater Immunity (heat and fire); Arcane Lore, Educated, Improved Characteristics (x35), Puissant Brawl, Second Sight, Self-Confident (x2); Essential Flaw (Avaricious, major) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power, Greater Power (x3), Magical Meditation; Gift of Speech, Improved Abilities (x4), Improved Attack (x4), Improved Damage (x4), Improved Defense (x4), Improved Fatigue (x2), Improved Initiative (x4), Improved Powers (x2), Improved Recovery, Improved Soak (x8); Susceptible to Deprivation; Reduced Might (x18) Personality Traits: Avaricious* +6, Inquisitive +4, Selfish +4, Callous +3 Reputations: Dragon Who Eats Everyone And Leaves No Survivors 4 (local) Combat: Large Claws: Init +4, Atk +23, Dfn +20, Dam +22 Large Teeth: Init +4, Atk +21, Dfn +17, Dam +21 Soak: +24 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –2, –4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–12), –3 (13–24), –5 (25–36), Incapacitated (37–48), Dead (49+) Abilities: (Area) Lore 5 (history), (Another Area) Lore 3 (history), Arabic 4 (poetry), Artes Liberales 5 (rhetoric), Athletics 2 (flying), Awareness 4 (smell), Brawl 6+2 (claws), Charm 2 (scholars), Civil and Canon Law 3 (property law), Concentration 4 (reading), Dominion Lore 3 (saints), Faerie Lore 2 (earth faeries), Folk Ken 4 (scholars), Guile 5 (concealing intentions), Greek 4 (academic usage), Hunt 5 (mountain goats), Latin 5 (academic usage), Leadership 4 (scholars), (Living Language) 5 (large vocabulary), (Another Living Langauge) 4 (large vocabulary), Magic Lore 6 (ancient magic), Penetration 2 (Mentem), Philosophiae 6 (metaphysics), Second Sight 5 (invisible things), Teaching 2 (Philosophiae), Theology 4 (great theologians) Powers: Master of Illusion, 1–5 points, Init –1, Imaginem:  Polymathes can spontaneously alter the appearance of anything he touches, spontaneously producing the effect of a Muto Imaginem spell of fifth magnitude or less at a cost of one Might point per magnitude. (Focus Power)''
''Fiery Breath, 2 points, Init +3, Ignem.  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  Polymathes can belch forth a torrent of fire 50 paces long and 10 paces wide. Anyone caught in its path takes a stress die +45 damage from the flames; a character may attempt to dodge with a Qik + Athletics roll; if the roll succeeds against an Ease Factor of 12, the character is only singed for a stress die +15 damage.  CrIg 50 (Base 40, +2 Voice): Greater Power (50 levels), Improved Powers (partial, –3 Might cost) Peering Into the Mortal Mind, 2 points, Init +3, Mentem  R: Sight, D: Mom, T: Ind  As the spell on page 149 of ArM5, but Polymathes can read the mind of anyone he can see; the target does not need to make eye contact with him.  InMe 40 (Base 25, +3 Sight): Greater Power (40 levels, –2 Might cost) Poisonous Blood, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  Polymathes’s blood is a deadly poison that keeps its potency for nine days after it is spilled. If anyone should manage to inflict a wound on Polymathes, and later in the battle rolls a botch, then a drop of blood has hit the unfortunate character’s''
''skin, and the player must make a Stamina roll of 12+ or the character dies instantly.  CrAq 45 (Base 25, +3 Duration equivalent to Moon, +1 continuous effect): Greater Power (45 levels, –1 Might cost), Improved Powers (partial, –3 Might cost), Improved Powers (partial, –1 Might cost) Improved Powers (partial, 15xp in Penetration) Vis: 9 Intellego in heart Appearance: Polymathes resembles a squat lizard about 25 feet from shoulder to rump, with a thin, sinuous neck about 15 feet long and a whip-like tail of similar length. He is covered in shimmering golden scales that are has hard as iron. His large wings are graceful and flexible, and he has the habit of gesticulating with them when he gets excited, to the detriment of bystanders.''
''Polymathes is something of a runt among dragons, but he is very ancient and magically potent. He lairs in a complex of tunnels in a remote mountain range, emerging every decade or two in search of new treasures. His lair is a place of wondrous illusions where nothing is what it seems. One of his favorite tricks is to make a pile of rubble''
''resemble a gleaming mound of gold; when would-be thieves discover the illusion, they usually decide the rumored dragon treasure was some kind of hoax, and give up. When he decides it would be amusing to deal with intruders in person, he disguises himself as a huge boulder and positions himself so intruders literally have to climb over him to''
''get the “treasure.” Polymathes is as consumed by lust for treasure as any of his kind. However, the wealth he craves is not money, but knowledge. He has a magnificent hoard of rare books and scrolls, some of them very ancient. There are a few tens of thousands of gold coins as well, collected in Polymathes’''
''younger days before he could appreciate the finer things in life. He has carefully arranged his treasures in piles and sleeps coiled among them. He does read the books from time to time (hence his smattering of Academic Abilities), but he’s primarily interested as a collector. He is preoccupied with expanding his collection, by whatever means are convenient. (It would be highly inadvisable to mention the Great Library of Durenmar in his presence.)''
''Transformed Animals''
''Powerful mystical effects cause Warping to both people and beasts. Hermetic magi often use the term Transformed Animal to classify those animals that have become Warped by magic. Hermetic taxonomists mark an important distinction between Transformed Animals and other beasts with magic qualities, like Beasts of Virtue: the magical qualities manifested by a Transformed Animal are entirely unrelated to the natural qualities of the beast, but are instead intimately related to the magical event that caused the transformation. Transformed Animals also do not gain a Magic Might score from their transformation, and thus do not become creatures native to the Magic realm.''
''Warping''
''Animals gain Warping points in the same manner as people (ArM5, pages 167168). Once an animal gains a Warping score of 1 it acquires a Minor Flaw, and it gains another Minor Flaw when its Warping score reaches 3. When the Warping Score reaches 5 a Minor Virtue is gained, and subsequent increases in the Warping Score result in the acquisition of Major Flaws. Note that an Animal that acquires a Minor Virtue (as it has reached a Warping Score of 5), no longer gains Warping points merely due to exposure to the same sort of aura.''

===Virtues and Flaws From Warping===

''If the Warping points gained by an''

[|
''Character Guide: A Lindwurm''
''Now crept the worm down to his place of watering, and the earth shook all about him, and he snorted forth venom ...''
''— The Saga of the Volsungs''
''Magic Might: 13 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –2, Per 0, Pre +3, Com –3, Str +10, Sta +5, Dex +1, Qik –3 Size: +5 Season: Summer Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Enduring Constitution, Great Stamina (x2), Puissant Brawl, Self-Confident, Tough; Essential Flaw (avaricious, major) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Gift of Speech, Improved Fatigue (x2), Improved Defense (x4), Improved Might, Improved Soak (x6), Personal Power (x2); Susceptible to Deprivation Personality Traits: Avaricious* +6, Fierce +4, Jealous +4 Reputations: Avaricious 3 (local) Combat: Constriction: Init –2, Attack +13, Defense +10, Damage n/a Large Teeth: Init –2, Attack +13, Defense +10, Damage +13 Soak: +19 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, 0/0, –2, –4, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–10), –3 (11–20), –5 (21–30), Incapacitated (31–40), Dead (41+) Abilities: Awareness 2 (in lair), Brawl 6+2 (constriction), Penetration 2 (5) (Aquam), Swim 3 (speed) Powers: Poisonous Breath, 2 points, Init –3, Auram  R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Group  The lindwurm can breathe a cloud of black smoke five paces across that coats victims with a contact poison (Ease Factor 9, inflicts a Heavy wound).''
''CrAu 35 (Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +2 Group): Greater Power (35 levels, +1 Init, –2 Might cost) Venomous Bite, 0 points, Init n/a, Aquam  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  The bite of the lindwurm has the same toxic effects as its breath, but costs no Might points to use.  CrAq 35 (Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 continuous effect): Personal Power x2 (35 levels, –3 Might cost), Improved Powers (–1 Might cost, 20 xp Penetration) Vis: 3 Perdo in fangs Appearance: The lindwurm is a huge, batwinged worm about 60 feet long and as thick as a barrel. It has cat-like eyes that shine through the darkness. Some lindwurms have a mane like a lion, though their faces are always reptilian. Their thick, overlapping scales gleam brilliant green with gold or silver highlights.''
''The lindwurm is a legless worm that appears in sagas and folk tales from Germany and Scandinavia (where it is called the lindorm). Lindwurms dwell in rivers, caverns, or burial mounds. They feed on sheep and cattle and are also fond of human corpses; sometimes lindwurms tunnel into churchyards to devour the newly buried dead. Lindwurms are consumed by a lust for riches. They can often be found guarding vast hoards of treasure. Sometimes they resort to taking hostages for ransom: they coil around the hall of a wealthy noble, devouring anyone who attempts to enter or leave, until a heavy ransom is paid — or until some hero arrives to slay the monster. This character guide may be used “as is” or completed in detail by adding up to 4 points of Virtues and Flaws and 175 Experience Points in Abilities. For a morepowerful lindwurm, add Might and Qualities as well.''

|]
''animal are mostly due to Magic — rather than Divine, Faerie, or Infernal influences — then it may acquire the following Virtues and Flaws as it Warps, eventually acquiring a Lesser Power when it reaches a Warping Score of 5. See Chapter 4: Characters for details of these Virtues and Flaws.''
''Minor Supernatural Flaw: Warped Senses Minor Supernatural Flaw: (Form) Monstrosity Minor Supernatural Virtue: Lesser Power Major Supernatural Flaw: Hunger for (Form) Magic Major Supernatural Flaw: Bound to Magic''
''Example Warped Animals''
''Below are some examples of animals that have been transformed due to exposure to magic. Note that until an animal has become so Warped that it acquires a Warping Score of 5, it only gains Flaws due to magical exposure, and many animals do not have a long enough life span to reach such a score.''

===The Cat-fish (Felis Aquatica)===

''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +1, Pre –4, Com –5, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik+4 Size: –3 Warping Score: 1 (0) Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Perfect Balance, Puissant Awareness, Sharp Ears, Aquam Monstrosity Personality Traits: Curious +4, Bold +1 Reputations: Magical beast 2 (local) Combat: Claws: Init +3, Attack +8, Defense +10, Damage –5 Teeth: Init +4, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage –6 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8) Abilities: Awareness 4 (at night), Brawl 2 (claws), Hunt 4 (water rats), Stealth 4 (stalking), Survival 3 (forests), Swim 4 (ambush) Natural Weapons: Claws: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +3, Damage +2. Teeth: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense +1, Damage +1. The cat’s dense fur gives it a Protection of +1. Vis: 1 pawn of Muto vis in fish tail.''
''Appearance: The fore-part of the cat-fish is that of a black cat, and the back-part is that of a silvery fish. His favorite hunting method is to hide under the surface of the water, and grab small vermin nesting in the banks of the river. Sometimes he will chase a fish on a line, but this is more of a kitten-like regression than serious hunting. Like all cats, the cat-fish gains a +3 bonus on rolls to climb and jump, due to his Perfect Balance, although of course he cannot easily climb out of the water. The cat does not have gills, and so cannot breath underwater.''
''Village fishermen in Champagne tell stories of a cat that lives in a tributary of the river Seine. The cat, it is claimed, is half fish — a kind of feline mermaid — and is very bold, sometimes even stealing fish from the line. The Bonisagus magus Yonnlius, currently a Master in the Rhine Tribunal, claims to have caught the cat several years ago and examined it. His supposition is that a cat became Warped after falling into a powerful magical regio in the river Seine, while attempting to catch fish from the river bank. It is unclear, from the record held at Durenmar, whether Yonnlius also located this regio, although he does note that upon the completion of his study the animal was released unharmed.''

===The Dog That Flew (Canis Volata)===

''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +2, Pre –4, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: –1 Warping Score: 3 (0) Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Long-Winded, Sharp Ears, Auram Monstrosity, Warped Senses (sensitive to sound), Reckless Personality Traits: Paranoid +3 Reputations: Flying dog 2 (local) Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5''

[|
''Minor Covenant Hook: Warped Livestock''
''The covenant has a large population of animals that have been Warped by a long association with the covenant. A minority of the animals have unusual and useful powers, but the presence of monsters draws mundane attention and suspicion to the covenant. If the population of monstrosities is large enough, the animals may be farmed to provide a source of Muto vis — this is represented by assigning an appropriate vis source Boon to the covenant.''
''Intentionally Warping an Animal''
''A cage of change is an enchanted item that is intended to rapidly Warp an animal, causing it to become monstrous by using an effect similar to The Enigma’s Gift (ArM5, page 157). This is done in the hope that the animal may then be slain and harvested for Muto vis. Using a cage of change is considered an unpleasant act by most magi, and many Bjornaer and Merinita magi consider the device abhorrent.''

===Cage of Change===

''CrVi Level 30 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind The cage of change is an iron cage''
''large enough to hold captive an animal of Size +1. When activated, the cage gives the captive in the cage 5 Warping Points — which is normally enough to cause the captive to gain a Warping Score of 1, and a Minor Flaw (ArM5, page 167-168). The intention is that the animal gains the Minor Supernatural Flaw (Form) Monstrosity, but there is no guarantee that a particular Flaw will be acquired by the animal, and other Flaws could cause the animal to become difficult to control or even dangerous. A Hermetic magus caught in a version of the cage of change that has been designed with penetration may instead enter Wizard’s Twilight (ArM5, page 88). (Effect: Base 25, +1 Touch; Modifications: None)''

|]
''(9–12), Incapacitated (13–16) Abilities: Athletics 4 (aerial maneuvers), Awareness 4 (keeping watch), Brawl 3 (bite), Hunt 4 (track by scent) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a dog’s bite are Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Vis: 1 pawn of Muto in wing feathers. Appearance: The dog is lean, lanky, and hungry looking. She stands about 3 feet tall, and has a large pair of grey feathered wings, with an extended wing span of over 3 yards; although normally the wings are tucked tight against her body. The dog cannot really fly, but can glide for long distances. To become air-borne she usually leaps from a high place, and is able to remain in flight for one Diameter for each 10 feet of initial height. Alternatively, the dog can take to the air for a short period (one Diameter) by running at speed with wings spread; make a stress roll of Strength + Athletics''
''against an Ease Factor of 6 to check if she is successful.''
''The town of Hersfeld, in Central Germany (see Guardians of the Forests, page 86), has a prominent bell tower over which the townsfolk witnessed a dog flying in the summer of 1217. Even the monks of the nearby Benedictine Abbey, who attributed the sight to a miracle, recorded the event. Some members of the Hermetic order have proposed that the sighted creature was an animal Warped by magical springs that are known to be in the region, but an expedition in 1219 was unable to find evidence of the flying dog. The flying dog is very skittish, and is afraid of both other animals and humans. She is still hiding near the town of Hersfeld, and survives by scavenging urban refuse. The dog was once a hunting dog and became transformed after finding herself caught near a magical explosion, although this actually occurred in a distant, mountain''
''ous area of Mythic Europe — from which she flew. A magus who finds the flying dog may become curious as to the source of the magical explosion and be able to retrace her flight path.''

===The Mice That Burned the Barn (Mus Flammeus)===

''Characteristics: Cun 0, Per 1, Pre –3, Com –4, Str –18, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +8 Size: –10 Warping Score: 1 (0) Confidence Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Lightning Reflexes, Sharp Ears, Timid, (Ignem) Monstrosity, Poor Eyesight Personality Traits: Timid +3 Reputations: Vermin 1 (local) Combat: Bite: Init +8, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage –17 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4) Abilities: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 4 (larger creatures), Brawl 3 (bite), Stealth 4 (hiding), Survival 3 (field) Natural Weapons: The weapon statistics for a mouse’s bite are Init 0, Atk +3, Def +1, Dam +1. Vis: 1 pawn of Muto in stomach. Appearance: The mouse is small and unremarkable looking, but occasionally (perhaps once per day) the mouse belches a torrent of sparks, particularly when the mouse is nervous. This small fire (+1) is incapable of causing much damage, but it can ignite dry materials. The mouse is not immune to fire, so will normally try to flee any resulting conflagration. Belching sparks also draws attention to the mouse, and any character nearby spots him on a Perception + Awareness Roll against an Ease Factor of 9. A predator, like a cat, will be curious and surprised if a mouse she is stalking belches fire.''
''This family of mice ate the magical residue of a blast of Ignem magic cast by a Flambeau hoplite while dueling with a faerie knight. The now-monstrous mice, somewhat randomly breathe fiery sparks. The magus, distracted at the time, did not notice the col''
''lateral effect of his magic as he hurtled off in pursuit of his faerie foe, but the mice have since burned down several nearby barns as they tried to nestle among the stored hay. The farmers who own the barns have not figured out what is happening; they suspect that an arsonist is the cause, and have set a watch on the remaining barns.''
''Training Creatures''
''With the approval of the storyguide, any magical beast with an animal intellect — that is, those with Cunning (Cun) — may be tamed, and then used by another character as a mount, guardian, or companion as appropriate. Taming an animal is a possible laboratory activity for a magus, but mundane animal handlers and some magical characters can also attempt to tame animals. Once an animal has been tamed, it can be further trained and taught a number of tricks.''
''Taming Animals''
''Regardless of whether the character taming an animal is a magus, a magical character, or a mundane trainer, taming is a seasonal activity and the character accumulates a number of points each season toward taming the animal. Taming is complete when the accumulated total of points exceeds the Might of the creature. Points only accumulate between consecutive seasons, so if the character does something else in the interim then any points already gained are lost. Points for taming animals can’t be transferred between trainers.''

===Required Points To Tame a Creature: Might of the Creature===

''In all cases, the tamer must be able to interact daily with the creature throughout the season. If the creature has a violent temperament, the tamer may require some kind of protection (magical or otherwise). If the tamer can generate enough points to tame a creature in a single season, he may split his point total between the taming of several creatures of the same species, but he cannot tame a number of additional creatures in excess of his Animal Handling''
''Ability Score.''

===a Hermetic Trainer===

''For a magus, taming an animal is a laboratory activity, and the creature must be housed in the laboratory. Of course, if the creature is very large this may necessitate the construction of a new laboratory. The number of''
''points that the magus accumulates each season is based on the magus’ Rego (Form) Lab Total (including bonuses, see insert), which is calculated using the Hermetic Form appropriate to the creature — Aquam for a kelpie, Ignem for a fire elemental, and so on.''

===Taming Points Accumulated Each===


===Season By an Hermetic Tamer: Re(fo) Lab Total – Creature’s Might===

''For example, to tame a fire elemental with an Ignem Might 25, the magus must accumulate 25 points. If the magus has a Rego Ignem Lab Total of 40 he will accumulate (40 – 25 =) 15 points each season, and therefore take two complete seasons to tame the elemental. During the process of taming an animal, a Hermetic magus produces a Lab Text that has a level equal to the Might of the creature that was tamed. A magus may use such a Lab Text, written by himself or another, to provide a bonus to his Lab Total when training animals of the same Form (see below). In addition, a magus may spend a season replicating the instructions in such a Lab Text to tame another creature of exactly the same species, whose Might does not exceed the''
''level of the Lab Text. To use the Lab Text in this way, the magus must have a Re(Fo) Lab Total at least equal to the level of the Lab Text. Of course, to use any Lab Text the magus must be able to read it; normally a Lab Text prepared by another character needs to be translated (ArM5, page 102). The following bonuses apply to the Rego (Form) Taming Lab Total for a Hermetic magus:''
''•	 Animal Handling Ability Score •	 Experimentation Bonus (i.e. a magus can use the Experimentation rules when taming an animal; ArM5 page 107). •	 +1 for every 5 levels of the highest level similar Lab Text the magus consults as a guide. A similar Lab Text is an animal taming Lab Text using the same Hermetic Form.''

===a Magical Trainer===

''A character with the Minor Supernatural Virtue: Master of (Form) Creatures (see Chapter 4: Characters) may tame creatures of that Form that have Cunning statistics. For each consecutive season spent, the character accumulates a number of points equal to:''

===Taming Points Accumulated Each===


===Season By a Master of Creatures: Trainer’s Might + Trainer’s Animal Handling – Creature’s Might===

''If the trainer does not have a Might Score, his Magic Lore Ability Score is substituted for his Might in this calculation (a character with Might can also choose to substitute her Magic Lore Ability Score). If the beast is connected to the same Form as the trainer, the trainer’s Might Score is doubled for the calculation above.''

===a Mundane Trainer===

''A mundane trainer can also attempt to tame a beast. He generates a number of points each  consecutive season, equal to:''

===Taming Points Accumulated Each===


===Season By a Mundane Trainer: Int + Animal Handling – Creature’s Might===

''Generally, a mundane trainer will only be able to successfully tame beasts with a small Magic Might.''

[|
''Taming Mundane Beasts''
''Mundane beasts can also be tamed, and (for this purpose only) mundane beasts have an effective (Animal) Might of 1 + 2 times Confidence Score. Note that taming a beast is a social activity, so penalties for the Gift apply to the number of points accumulated in a season; creatures with Magic Mights are often not affected by the Gift in this way. Some example mundane beasts are described in the Book of Mundane Beasts appendix, and Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (page 38) describes a method of generating statistics for mundane beasts.''

|]
''Realms of Power Tricks, Stunts, and Tasks''
''Once an animal is tamed it may be commanded by characters with Intelligence (Int) characteristics. The animal can be commanded by any such character with the Animal Handling Ability or by a character to whom the animal is loyal (see below). Regardless of the method used to the tame the animal, once tamed he does not count as being under a continuing mystical effect.''

===Loyalty===

''Once a creature is tamed he acquires the Personality Trait (Loyal +0), directed towards the character who tamed him. If the creature already has a Loyal Personality Trait, then he doesn’t gain a new Trait, rather the old Trait is focused towards the trainer and its level doesn’t change. Sometimes commanding an animal calls for a Loyalty Test, and as this is a “social interaction,” penalties for the Gift do apply.''

===Loyalty Test: Loyal Personality Trait + Stress Die Vs Ease Factor===

''If he wishes, any character with the Animal Handling Ability may spend additional seasons with an already-tamed creature to improve or transfer the loyalty of that creature. Each additional season of training increases the Loyal trait by +1, to a maximum of +3. A character can only improve the loyalty of an animal that is loyal to himself, but instead of increasing the Loyal trait, with this season of extra training the trainer can choose to transfer the animal’s loyalty to another character (who must also be present for the season). The trainer may even transfer the loyalty of the animal to himself if he was not the character who originally tamed the animal. A magus who has the Lab Text for a tamed animal (see below) may also transfer or improve the Loyal trait of the animal by spending a season, as long as his Re(Fo) Lab Total is at least equal to level of the Lab Text.''

===Training Abilities===

''Any character with the Animal Handling Ability may train and therefore improve a tamed animal’s Abilities using the standard training rules (ArM5, page 164). As normal, the master must have a greater score in the Ability than the animal does.''
''Usually, an animal may only be trained in Abilities that he already has a score in, as other Abilities are beyond his capacity.''
''But the troupe may relax this restriction on a case-by-case basis; for example, to allow a horse to be taught to swim. At the end of any season spent training for an Ability that the animal does not already have a score in, make a Loyalty test for the animal against an Ease Factor of 6. If this Loyalty test fails, then the animal does not gain any training experience and the season is wasted. Loyalty tests are not required to improve existing Abilities.''

===Trained Groups===

''A character may lead tamed animals in combat, as a trained group. The character must have either tamed each animal himself or spent at least a season working with each animal. The character’s Animal Handling Ability score is used instead of his Leadership Ability score to determine how many animals he can lead at one time (see ArM5, page 172). Note that while the animals must all have Combat Scores that each fall within a 5-point range, the character leading them does not need to match the Combat Scores of the animals in this way (this is an exception to the normal rules). However, if the character’s scores are outside the range, he''
''does not count as part of the group when determining their combat totals. Depending upon the temperament of the animals involved, fighting as a group may require Loyalty tests against an Ease Factor of 6.''

===Commanding a Creature===

''In general, when the character commands a tamed creature make a Presence + Animal Handling roll against an Ease Factor set from the following table. The Ride Ability may be substituted for Animal Handling when the character is using the animal as a mount, and for exotic creatures another Ability might be more appropriate; the Magic Lore Ability might be used for commanding tamed elementals, for example. A botch may cause the animal to flee, mistakenly perform some other command, or attack its master — depending on the nature of both the command and the beast. If several characters issue an animal with contradictory commands, it will preferentially obey commands issued by a character it is loyal to. Otherwise, it will obey the command of the character with the highest Presence + Animal Handling Total. For example, a magus tames a magical wolf (the wolf is now loyal to the magus) and he then commands the wolf to guard his sanctum door; the wolf will not normally obey contradictory commands to leave his post.''

===Command Beast: Presence + Animal Handling (Or Ride Or Magic Lore) + Stress Die Vs Ease Factor===

''Ease Factor: Automatic success The task uses an Ability that the creature has, and the creature has done this many times before.''
''Ease Factor: 6 The animal does not often do this task, and/or the situation is stressful for the animal.''
''Ease Factor: 9 The task is a complex series of sub-tasks, that requires the animal to concentrate for a long period of time — at least several rounds; or it is a new task that the creature has never performed before.''
''Ease Factor: 12 The creature fears some portion of the task. Note that it is the animal’s perception of fear that is important here. Most animals would fear a battle, or fire, for example. If the creature does not have a Confidence Score, a Loyalty test against an Ease Factor of 6 must also be made to follow through on this task.''

[|
''Animal Ken''
''A character with Animal Ken (ArM5, page 62) can speak to animals, including some magical beasts. Such a character can attempt to reason with any animal (regardless of whether it is tamed or not) using his Animal Handling Ability, and so convince it to perform a task. This does not result in a tamed animal, merely an animal that has decided to obey a particular instruction. Animal Ken offers no advantage during taming, but the character may issue more-complex commands to a tamed animal. The animal is no more likely to obey these commands, but it may allow the character to better utilize an animal as a scout or informant. Another important use of Animal Ken is to convince an animal that is balking at performing some dangerous task that the task is not dangerous after all.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
