
===Andrew, an Infernal Ghost===

''Order: Accusers Infernal Might: 10 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre –2,''
''Com 0, Str n/a, Sta n/a, Dex n/a, Qik n/a Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Ability Block (Social''
''Abilities) Personality Traits: Cruel +6, Hatred for''
''Women +4, Lustful +2 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 0 Abilities: Area Lore 4 (adulterers),''
''Awareness 3 (searching), Carouse 3 (ale), Profession: Carpenter 5 (coffins) Powers: Nails of the Cuckold’s Vengeance, 1 point, Init''
''+1, Corpus: Each use of this Power causes a stabbing pain in a part of the body, as if a nail had been driven into it. This disrupts concentration, and, if a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is failed, the loss of a Fatigue level. The puncture wounds caused by this attack are clearly visible. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Misogyny. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Betrayal of the Heart, 2 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Whispers Behind the Back, 2 points, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Weakness: Protected Group (children) Vis: None — Andrew has no ability to''
''form a body, and thus cannot leave behind a corpse. Appearance: Andrew can only be seen by''
''those with Second Sight (and those''
''whom he targets with his Envisioning Power). He appears as he did in life, a husky peasant with a misshapen nose, except that he has a pair of horns, and bat wings protrude from his shoulders. He carries a mallet and a handful of rusty nails, each eight inches long.''
''Andrew was hanged eight years ago for murdering his wife and her lover. This crime, while motivated by passion, was not a crime of the moment: Andrew carefully staged the situation which would cause the most torment to the adulterers, poisoning them with a slow-acting toxin and then driving nails into their writhing bodies as they died. Andrew now walks the earth uncovering the crimes of unfaithful lovers.''

===Aqrab the Conjurer===

''Order: Deluders Infernal Might: 10 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre +1,''
''Com +3, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Commanding, Diablerie, Incantation, Summoning; Puissant Guile, Puissant Teaching Personality Traits: Curious +4, Credible''
''+3, Charming +3, Sly +2 Reputations: Powerful Sorceress 3''
''(Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Short sword: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense''
''+8, Damage +6 Soak: +2''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5''
''(11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Charm 5 (seduction), Diablerie''
''8 (mazzikim), Faerie Lore 6 (djinni), Guile 6+2 (about magic), Incantation 5 (when invoking names), Infernal Lore 6 (mazzikim), Magic Lore 6 (spirits), Single Weapon 4 (short sword), Teaching 6+2 (Summoning) Powers: Duplicate the Magi’s Creation, variable points,''
''Init +1, variable Form: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Deluders. Aqrab can only duplicate Creo spells. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Thirst for Knowledge. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Delusion, 1 or 5 points, Init +3, Imaginem:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Deluders. Duplicate the Magi’s (Technique) Spell, variable''
''points, Init +1, variable Form. Goetic Arts: Summoning 10, Commanding''
''10 Weakness: Vulnerability (gold) Vis: 2 pawns of Imaginem, in eyes (all one''
''hundred of them!) Appearance: In her natural form, Aqrab is''
''a cloud of midnight-blue smoke filled with eyes and gaping maws. She usually cloaks herself in illusion so that she appears as an Arabic woman with blue skin and dark blue hair, wearing only a loincloth. She may also appear as the same woman, but without the blue coloring; in this form she dresses in blue.''

=Demons as Deceivers=


==The Infernal==

''Aqrab is a Deluder who is most active in Islamic lands. She masquerades as either a sorceress or a djinnja who is willing to teach others her magic, which, along with other Powers, includes knowledge of how to summon magical creatures. What she actually does is places them on the road towards becoming diabolists. She is capable of teaching the Infernal Abilities of Incantation and Diablerie (see Chapter 10: Maleficia), and the Goetic Arts of Summoning and Commanding (see Chapter 11: Ars Goetia) to Gifted students. Anyone learning from her subtracts her Might from the penalty applied to Study Totals when learning Supernatural Abilities (ArM5, page 166).''

===Ataf the Separator===

''Order: Spirits of Deceit Infernal Might: 15 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com''
''+3, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Hatred (True Lovers) Personality Traits: Deceitful +6, Vengeful''
''+4, Trustworthy –5 Reputations: Sower of Discord 1''
''(Infernal) Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +6,''
''Damage n/a Fist: Init +2, Attack +6, Defense +5,''
''Damage +2 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unc. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5''
''(11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 4 (sex''
''opposite to current form), Folk Ken 6 (married couples), Intrigue 5 (marital disharmony) Powers: Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Jealousy, Suspicion. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus''
''or Animal: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit.''
''Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init –1,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init''
''–1, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Weakness: Protected Group (True Lovers) Vis: 4 pawns of Mentem, in tongue Appearance: Ataf’s natural form is of a''
''human male with the head of a serpent. However, as a shapechanging demon he can adopt the form of any man or woman he meets. When he changes shape, he adopts the clothing of his new form.''
''Ataf’s special province is in separating a husband from his wife. He does not target those whose marriages are already on shaky ground; instead he victimizes those couples who have an apparently happy marriage. His usual modus operandi is to impersonate one half of the couple and be seen conspicuously by neighbors and friends acting in an inappropriate manner. Ataf prefers to allow suspicion, jealousy, and recrimination to drive husband and wife apart, feelings that he reinforces with his Obsessions. To his eternal frustration, his Powers do not work on those with True Love; they never mistake his shapechanged form for their beloved (but merely see someone who looks vaguely similar to them), and his other Powers are similarly affected. However, he is unable to recognize True Love until his Powers fail; more than one of his “projects” has been brought low by True Lovers, and when he encounters them, he often abandons his usual subtlety and lashes out against them with uncharacteristic violence.''

===Berith the Ennobler===

''Order: Spirits of Deceit Infernal Might: 25 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre 0,''
''Com 0, Str +5, Sta +5, Dex –3, Qik 0 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 2 (6 points)''
''Virtues and Flaws: Landed Noble*,''
''Long–Winded *Not a true title, but he is treated as''
''such. Personality Traits: Arrogant +6, Deceitful''
''+6, Trustworthy –5 Reputations: Ennobler of Riches 3''
''(Infernal), Teacher of Alchemists 1 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Great sword: Init +2, Attack +11*, Defense''
''+11*, Damage +14 Hooves: Init +2, Attack +5, Defense +8,''
''Damage +6 *Includes a +3 bonus for being mounted. Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0, –1/–1, –3/–3,''
''–5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5''
''(17–24), Incapacitated (25–32) Abilities: Athletics 6 (galloping), Brawl''
''6 (hooves), Folk Ken 6 (noble land claims), Great Weapon 6 (great sword), Guile 6 (ennobling things), Intrigue 8 (mortal nobles) Powers: Ennoble the Base, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem:''
''Makes any one target see a situation, argument, idea, or object as more noble than it is. Face of the Count, 5 points, Init 0, Corpus:''
''Transforms a volunteer into a facsimile of a particular nobleman. This transformation does not change the memories or personality of the target, and is dispelled by participation in any sacrament. Seven Leagues in One Night, 1 point, Init''
''–3, Animal: This Power allows Berith to travel at tremendous speed, three times faster than any normal horse. He can cross water as if it were dry land. He can carry anyone who voluntarily sits upon his back. Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Pretensions to Greatness. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus''
''or Animal: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit.''
''Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init –1,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init''
''–1, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Weakness: Protected Group (noblemen''
''who meet all of their obligations) Vis: 5 pawns of Imaginem, in tin crown. Appearance: Berith appears as a soldier,''
''dressed completely in red, and riding''
''a red horse. He always wears a crown. Berith may look like a mounted man, but his humanoid portion does not detach from his equine portion.''
''Berith can transform the way that things seem, so that they appear nobler than they are. Berith is a consummate liar because he can make ideas seem noble. He is popular with alchemists, because he can make base metals seem valuable, and offers valueless instruction that seems wise. Berith’s arrogance prevents him from transforming himself: his demonic nature''
''is always apparent, and he never chooses to manifest in any other shape.''
''Berith’s favorite ploy is the production of unworthy noblemen. Sometimes, he arranges for a landowner to be slain, and then substitutes a magically altered servant. Such imposters do not have the memories or personalities of the people they replace and must work diligently to forestall discovery. Berith’s illusion cannot survive the sacraments, so his servants usually pretend to take communion privately. Berith also often helps usurpers to claim honors. His greatest success, helping Abimelech to rule over Israel of three years as if he were its king, is recorded in the Book of Judges.''

===Bordelon, a Personal Tormentor===

''Order: Accusers Infernal Might: 15 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre 0,''
''Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +4 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Piercing Gaze, Puissant''
''Leadership Personality Traits: Cruel +6, Stern +5,''
''Implacable +3 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Switch: Init +6, Attack +11, Defense +10,''
''Damage +4 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5''
''(11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Leadership 6+2 (children),''
''Single Weapon 5 (switch) Powers: Crushing the Will, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem:''
''This Power saps the will and vitality of its target, leaving him listless, less energetic, and withdrawn. All Personality Trait rolls suffer a –3 modifier, and the target may not spend Confidence Points to increase other rolls. Each use of this Power lasts until the victim has slept for at least six hours.''

==The Infernal==

''Chastise the Disobedient, 0 points, Init +3,''
''Corpus: Every strike of Bordelon’s switch inflicts a fearsome sting. Double the Wound Penalties inflicted by the weapon, although these extra penalties vanish after an hour. Wound Penalties caused by any actual wounds she inflicts are healed as normal. Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Shame. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Betrayal of the Heart, 2 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Whispers Behind the Back, 2 points, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Weakness: Protected Group (red-haired''
''women) Vis: 3 pawns of Mentem, in hair Appearance: Bordelon appears as a stern''
''faced old woman, with hair tied back in such a tight bun that it distorts her face. Her small horns are hidden within this hair. Her skin is mottled with liver-spots, and she wears an austere gown which covers her cloven hooves and forked tail. She affects the demeanor of a stern governess. She carries a switch of willow bound with leather, which she wields with expert ability to inflict the most pain.''
''Bordelon believes that meekness is a virtue, and that those who strive to better themselves are victims of pride. Her goal is to crush all ambition and prevent those whom she watches from committing the very sin of Satan himself. Bordelon chooses a child early on in his life and becomes his personal tormentor (granting the Story Flaw Plagued by a Demon). The child soon learns that the demon’s periodic appearances are more frequent whenever he tries to distinguish himself from his peers, so her victims tend to become withdrawn, unambitious, and meek. Whenever her victim acts in a way that would grant a Confidence Point due to increased selfworth, he can expect a visit from Bordelon to punish the presumption.''

===Forcas===

''Order: Duke of the Deluders (Watchers) Infernal Might: 40 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +4, Per 0, Pre 0, Com''
''+2, Str +1, Sta +4, Dex +2, Qik +6 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 2 (6 points) Virtues and Flaws: Debauchery, Effusion,''
''Phantasm; Good Teacher, Puissant Artes Liberales, Puissant Guile; Noncombatant Personality Traits: Arrogant +4, Credible''
''+3, Sly +2, Wise Demeanor +2 Reputations: Duke of Rhetoric 7''
''(Infernal) Hierarchy: 7 Combat: Dodge: Init +6, Attack n/a, Defense +10,''
''Damage n/a Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5''
''(17–24), Incapacitated (25–32) Abilities: Artes Liberales 8+2 (mathemat''
''ics), Brawl 3 (dodge), Debauchery 10 (Phantasm), Effusion 12, Guile 7+2 (hedge wizards), Infernal Lore 6 (hierarchies), Intrigue 4 (academic),''
''Magic Lore 4 (herbalism), Phantasm 8 (changing appearance), Philosophiae 6 (natural sciences), Profession: Actor 4 (lip movements), Teaching 6 (Artes Liberales), Theology 4 (heresy disguised as doctrine) Powers: Hide from Mortal Sight, 4 points, Init +6,''
''Imaginem: Forcas can render anyone he can see invisible, although they are never hidden from his sight. This is true invisibility, as it cannot be revealed with Hermetic magic, due to its Infernal nature. The invisibility lasts until the next Sunday, or until Forcas decides to cancel it. Retrieve That Which is Lost, 4 points, Init''
''+6, Terram: Forcas can locate any object to which he has an Arcane Connection, or a sympathetic connection such as its true owner. Once located, he can cause the item to disappear from its current location and appear in close proximity to himself. This Power must penetrate the Magic Resistance of anyone holding or wearing the summoned object. The Wordless Conversation, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: See Watchers.''

[|
''Order: Deluders These demons lurk around magicians and make their magic appear to be stronger than it really is. They promote overconfidence. This surge of power is often used to negate the usual draining effect on magic-affiliated Powers in an Infernal aura, and sometimes to even mimic the effects of a Magical aura. Enervators appear as typical Deluders — slashes of darkness filled with eyes and teeth — but also have disembodied, clawed hands floating around in the darkness. Infernal Might: 20 (Vim) Weakness: Salt Powers: Deceiver’s Boost, 1 or more points, Init''
''+5, Vim: When a demon uses this Power, its target is a spell cast by a mortal. The demon must spend at least one Might Point on the effect,''
''but can choose to spend more. The demon must also penetrate the Magic Resistance of the spellcaster, if any. For every point of Might spent by the demon, the magus gets +2 to his Casting Total. However, spells enhanced by this Power may be manipulated in minor ways by the demon, such as changing the target of the spell, ending concentration at the whim of the demon, and the like. The spell must remain within the rules for Similar Spells (ArM5, page 101), and can’t be more powerful than the spell level + Might Points spent, but the demon is free to manipulate any one aspect of the spell otherwise. If a spellcaster’s player rolls a zero while being influenced by this Power, he must roll an extra botch die.''

==Enervators==


|]

==Realms of Power==

''Corrupted Knowledge, 2 points, Init –3,''
''Mentem: See Watchers. Coagulation, 4 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Arrogance. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers.''
''Delusion, 1 or 5 points, Init +3, Imaginem:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Deluders. Duplicate the Magi’s Perception, variable points,''
''Init +1, variable Form: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Deluders. Duplicate the Magi’s Transformation, vari''
''able points, Init +1, variable Form:''
''See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Deluders. Weakness: Ordering Vis: 7 pawns of Mentem Appearance: His natural form is that of''
''a Watcher, although by using his Unholy Power of Phantasm (see Chapter 10: The Maleficia: Phantasm) he usually takes the form of an aged man who leans on a gnarled staff carved with many watching eyes. Like all Watchers he is mute, but communicates directly with the minds of his targets while pretending to speak by moving his mouth in the appropriate manner.''
''Forcas is well known among natural magicians and other educated hedge wizards; he devotes his time to teaching them rhetoric, logic, and mathematics, as well as the Unholy Powers he knows. Like many Deluders, he claims to be an airy spirit (aligned to the Magic realm, rather than the Infernal realm), and seemingly teaches his lore out of goodwill. He usually acquires a famulus (see Chapter 5: Demons as Corrupters, Famuli) for any of his students who have magical abilities, so that the famulus can hide his Infernal nature. He can render people invisible, and can restore lost property. However, he claims to his students that he teaches them to become invisible, whereas in reality it is Forcas who enacts the illusion, hidden from sight in his discorporate form.''

===Miser’s Pot, Bane of the Hoarder===

''Order: Accusers Infernal Might: 5 (Terram) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre n/a,''
''Com 0, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: –2 Personality Traits: Loquacious +3 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +5,''
''Damage n/a Soak: +18 (made of solid brass, no vital''
''organs)''

[|
''Order: Masters of the Spirits of Deceit''
''These hideous demons can be found haunting isolated patches of wilderness, often mountains and swamps. They take the form of dragons of at least Size +5, with corroded scales of a disgusting green-black hue and immense, toothfilled maws. Infernal dragons rarely have wings. Each dragon has at least one human form that it regularly adopts, and may take an interest in the local human population, often exploiting them and causing misery. Many use their powers of deceit to provoke wars between neighboring lands, to slake their hunger for corpses. They may only be safely confronted by the pure of heart, whom they cannot harm; to claim this protection a character must have either True Faith or at least two noble Personality Traits at +3 or higher, and no sins on her conscience which have not been absolved. Infernal Might: 35 (Animal)''
''Weakness: Protected Group (the pure''
''of heart) Powers: Venom, 0 points, Init +3, Aquam: The''
''spittle of an Infernal Dragon is a hideous venom that rots flesh and other organic material. Anyone bitten by one of these creatures, even if the bite damage was fully Soaked, must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or suffer a Medium Wound. If the saliva comes into contact with wood or any softer organic material (such as leather armor, or the leather straps of metal armor), it dissolves it in one round. Poison the Air, 8 points, Init +0, Auram:''
''The demon can exhale a cloud of poisonous smoke which pollutes the air for up to a league (depending upon the prevailing wind). Plants coming into contact with this smoke wither and die, and creatures take +15 corrosion damage.''

==Infernal Dragons==

''Order: Spirits of Deceit Men of Good Intent are minor demons that encourage spiritual laxity, usually through excesses of virtue. They encourage the idea that the Church is too strict in its interpretation of the Bible, or too lax. They suggest that minor vices are harmless, and so are not really vices. Men of Good Intent usually appear otherwise upright in their views, peddling only a single vice.''
''In their natural material form, they are human-sized snakes with a man’s head. When using the Form of Man Power from their order, they can only''
''take a single form, that of a generic human being of a particular type (merchant, soldier, nobleman, priest, etc.) However, every viewer sees them differently, according to the viewer’s preconceptions of that group of individuals. If a victim describes a specific Man of Good Intent to a group, the rest of that group see the demon as they expect to, that is, suiting the description given.''
''An example Man (or rather, Woman) of Good Intent is Premnemosyne Infernal Might: 5 (Mentem) Weakness: Protected Group (those''
''already given to their vice)''

==Men of Good Intent==


|]

==The Infernal==

''Fatigue Levels: Tireless Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5''
''(7–9), Incapacitated (10–12) Abilities: Athletics 5 (when pursued),''
''Brawl 2 (dodge), Charm 4 (misers), Folk Ken 4 (rich people) Powers: Body of Brass, 0 points, Init +6, Terram:''
''The Pot does not have a living body, and thus it is immune to fatigue, disease, deprivation, and some spells. The Pot moves on jointless, boneless legs, and can sprint at the pace of a running horse. It usually does this just after a rich person places treasure inside it. Seize the Miser’s Hoard, 3 points, Init +5,''
''Terram: This Power allows the demon to reshape its inner surface, so that it flows around any object inside the lip of the cauldron, creating an unbreakable grip. This includes the hand of a rich person whom the pot wishes to drag away to Hell. Idea, 1 point, Init +3, Mentem: The Pot''
''can silently suggest, to its victim, that it would be a good place to store valuables. The victim can resist this suggestion with a Personality Trait roll against an Ease Factor of 9, modified by circumstances. For example, if the rich person already owns a strongbox, he is unlikely to want to store his valuables in a cauldron, and so might gain a 3-point bonus on the roll. If this Power fails, the Pot usually tries again, but with a different target commodity. For example, a rich person refusing to fill it with gold might be encouraged to fill it with coal, or flour, or cook a meal in it. This Power is often used in conjunction with the pot’s Obsession Power. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Hoarding. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Betrayal of the Heart, 2 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Whispers Behind the Back, 2 points, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers.''
''Weakness: Protected group (poor people) Vis: 1 pawn of Terram, in body Appearance: The Miser’s Pot looks like a''
''small, three–legged cooking cauldron made of brass. Its outer surface is usually shiny and smooth, but it is able to tarnish itself or scribe designs on its face at will. When it speaks, its voice is hollow and tinny.''
''The Miser’s Pot claims its mission is to punish the greedy rich. It does this by removing some of their wealth and then, if they do not demonstrate a suitable change of attitude, inflicts them with its Obsession Power to ensure that they arrive in Hell. The Pot is able to speak, and it tells both the rich person from whom it steals, and the poor person whom it patronizes, that its acts are a''
''punishment for greed and mistreatment of the poor.''

===Nithael, the Great Leveller===

''Order: Master of the Accusers Infernal Might: 25 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +1,''
''Com +1, Str +6, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Personality Traits: Cruel +6 Reputations: Captain of a Legion of''
''Corrupt Priests 3 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Punch: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +7,''
''Damage +6 Soak: +5''

[|
''Order: Deluders The mighty Wizard-king Solomon commanded many demons in the service of God. Among those whom he summoned were seven female spirits, who appeared together and spoke with one voice. They called themselves Deception, Strife, Battle, Envy, Power, Error, and Corruption. Each threatened King Solomon with her powers, but his holiness was too great and he put them to work in building his temple.''
''Although Solomon bound the demons to the power of his seal, they have since escaped his control and roam the earth once more. These demons never appear singly, and they may indeed be seven reflections of the same, more powerful demon.''
''The Seven Spirits of Solomon take the form of beautiful women with long, fair hair, clothed in fine silk apparel. However, their hands are bound with wire, behind their backs and to each other, and their eyes are blank holes. This appearance is actually the inside of their bodies; if they turn themselves inside out they reveal their true forms, which is seven columns of darkness filled with eyes and weapons.''
''Infernal Might: 20 (Corpus) Weakness: Abhorrent Material (gem''
''stone inscribed with the Seal of Solomon) Powers: The Worst You Can Be, 2 points, Init +0,''
''Mentem: The Spirits of Solomon can inflict upon a victim one of the seven curses for which they are named. The Curse of Deception prevents the victim from speaking the truth. The Curse of Strife makes the victim quarrelsome over the slightest issue. The Curse of Battle causes others to fight over the victim. The Curse of Envy causes others to envy the victim, and work evil against him. The Curse of Power causes the victim to be filled with an overwhelming ambition and obsession for raw power. The Curse of Error causes the victim to misinterpret anything he is told in earnest. The Curse of Corruption amplifies the worst trait of the victim to tragic proportions. Each curse should be treated as a Lesser Malediction, and is permanent unless the spirits are forced to retract it, or it is removed by some Divine agency.''

==Spirits of Solomon==


|]

==Realms of Power==

''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5''
''(11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Brawl 5 (punch), Charm 6''
''(pandering), Folk Ken 8 (worthlessness), Guile 6 (removing self-worth), Leadership 5 (weak willed), Profession: Actor 6 (petitioner) Powers: Form of Man, 2 points, Init 0, Corpus: The''
''demon can assume the shape of any human being. Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim:''
''Self-loathing. See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Betrayal of the Heart, 2 points, Init 0,''
''Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers.''
''Whispers Behind the Back, 2 points, Init''
''0, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Accusers. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (topaz) Vis: 5 pawns of Rego, in fingers Appearance: Nithael takes the appearance''
''of an emaciated man, with blue-green skin and a face that looks like it has been drawn outwards from the head with a pair of pliers. His legs end with the claws of a bird. He is hairless and eschews clothing.''
''Nithael’s interests are in those who abuse their positions of power. He takes great delight in visiting both secular and ecclesiastical princes who govern for the love of power, but he does not restrict himself to such luminaries. All who use the power of their offices — whether granted by birth, by man, or by God — are his prey.''
''He tests those whom he accuses, going to them with a legitimate complaint, and woe betide those to whom he takes a dislike. His main weapons are his obsessions: he spends weeks or months working on increasing the self-importance of his victim, inflating her own opinion of herself and causing her to abuse her power even more. He then switches to self-loathing, and crushes her ego. She is tormented in her sleep though the use of his Envisioning until she is a different woman altogether, stripped of confidence and weakly trembling. Once he is done with her, suicide seems the only way out.''

===Premnenosyne, False Prophetess===

''Order: Spirits of Deceit (Men of Good''
''Intent) Infernal Might: 5 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per –1, Pre +1,''
''Com +2, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3 points) Virtues and Flaws: Premonitions, Puissant''
''Guile, Social Contacts Personality Traits: Deceitful +6, Acedia''
''+1, Trustworthy –5 Reputations: Prophetess 1 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1,''
''Damage n/a Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5''
''(11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Charm 4 (the gullible), Europe''
''Lore 3 (superstitions), Folk Ken 6 (fortune-telling), Guile 5+2 (about future events), Premonitions 4 (non-urgent events), Survival 2 (on the road) Powers: The Abandoned Corpse, 1 point, Init +5,''
''Corpus: Premnemosyne can create a corpse as she converts to spiritual form, appearing to leave a body behind. This body rots quicker than a real human cadaver, disappearing entirely within a month.''

[|
''Order: Dukes of the Deluders The legend of the Watchers states that there were once angels (collectively called the Grigori) sent to earth by God to instruct mankind. However, some of these Grigori started to cohabit with the daughters of men. They became corrupted and fell from God’s grace, joining the ranks of the Deluders and teaching mankind the secrets of Supernatural Powers. The Watchers are among the most powerful members of the order, and are highly sought after by those who would practice magic. Because there are some holy Watchers (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 26), many do not realize that these creatures teach “magic” from an unholy source. Unlike the other Deluders, the unholy Grigori are humanshaped, although solid black and taller than giants; no details of their shape can be made out other than the hundreds of eyes which cover their featureless skin. They are eternally silent, communicating their teaching directly into the minds of their pupils. All of these high-status demons have the rank of Duke.''
''An example of a Watcher is Forcas.''
''Infernal Might: 40 (Corpus) Weakness: Ordering Powers: The Wordless Conversation, 0 points, Init''
''0, Mentem: Watchers may speak directly into the mind of any creature whom they can see (assuming Magic Resistance is penetrated), and may choose to hear any mental or verbal response that the target may make. Corrupted Knowledge, 2 points, Init –3,''
''Mentem: When a Watcher spends a season teaching an Ability (of any kind, including Supernatural), he uses this Power to corrupt the knowledge that he teaches, granting the Flaw Corrupted (Ability) (see Chapter 9: Infernal Characters, New Flaws). The Power only inflicts the Flaw if the character being schooled acquires an increase in the Ability score because of the teaching supplied by the demon. Those affected by this Power soon learn that they get greater rewards if they use their Ability for selfish or sinful purposes.''

==Watchers==


|]

==The Infernal==

''Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus: See''
''Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5,''
''Vim: Acedia (spiritual sloth). See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Demonic Powers. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0,''
''Corpus or Animal: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init''
''–1, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3''
''points, Init –1, Mentem: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init''
''–3, Vim: See Chapter 4: Infernal Legions, Spirits of Deceit. Weakness: Protected Group''
''(those who can actually see the future, for example, those with the Premonitions Virtue, or those trained in Astrological Mysteries) Vis: 1 pawns of Intellego, in''
''eyes Appearance: This demoness''
''always looks like a Wise''
''One, but as is common to her demon family, her actual appearance varies to suit the preconceptions of the viewer.''
''Premnemosyne is a demon of acedia, the spiritual version of the sin of sloth. She harms by spreading false prophe''
''cies. The events she predicts are always precipitous: they encourage characters to avoid involvement in situations that they might correct, since, she assures them, everything will turn out alright in the end. Premnemosyne encourages people to trust in Providence, beyond all limits of caution. She often serves other demons. Her skill at predicting the pattern of future events is highly developed, and she advises diabolists concerning the future. She is not a warrior and never fights, but she occasionally maneuvers people into appearing to kill her, so that she can have them charged with murder.''
''Premnemosyne is currently active in a small town in the Rhineland, ruled by a nobleman under diabolic influence. She spreads folktales about a hero who will come to cast him down, so that people are tempted to wait for a savior who will never come.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
