''the supernatural denizens of the Theban Tribunal have evolved from classical origins; nereides and drakoi bear some resemblance to the nymphs and giants of the ancient world, for example. Others, such as the stoicheia and vrykolakes, have their roots in local folklore and peasant superstitions. The mythology of ancient Greece is associated with all four of the supernatural Realms. From the Magic Realm are the primeval Titans who are reckoned to be personifications of forces of nature, as well as lesser natural gods and beings who pay scant regard to mortal worship, such as Helios, Asklepios, or the sibyls. Belonging to the Faerie Realm are the famed Olympian gods, as well as many members of the classical bestiary such as centaurs, fauns, and satyrs. Stories of these gods are often fables or morality plays, exploited for a rhetorical purpose or as a moral lesson. These beings then arise from the human stories. The tales of the Heroic Age, in contrast, are interpreted scripturally; that is, they are alternative versions of stories from the bible. Their heroes, such as Herakles or Theseus, are associated with the Divine Realm, as are sites associated with their virtue. Their adversaries often belong to the Infernal Realm, as do the sites associated with their struggles.''
''How to Use this Book''
''As always, nothing written here is “set in stone” as far as your saga is concerned. You should feel free to use as written those bits that you like, and adapt or discard other parts. It’s up to you to decide how closely you want to follow the real history of the region, or the Tribunal as it is depicted here. There are numerous covenants and magi described in these pages, but by no means enough to fill entirely a Tribunal consisting of about a hun''
''dred magi. Space is left for you to add covenants of your own devising, and to add to the membership of the described covenants. If you are a player in a Theban saga, it may be best to consult your storyguide before reading further. Most of Chapters 2 to 8 should be safe for you to read, consisting of information that characters could reasonably be expected to know about their home territory and Tribunal. Although in places there are some story seeds and game statistics that the storyguide may prefer you not to read. Heavier spoilers may be found in Chapters 9 to 12, each of which deals with creatures, schemes, factions, and story plots associated with one of the four supernatural Realms.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Medieval Perceptions of Antiquity''
''The perception of the ancient civilizations of Greece in the rest of medieval Europe varied substantially with time and place, and with social standing. The intelligentsia were aware of Homer, Herodotus, and Thucydides, while lords and peasants were regaled with epic romances of Aeneas, Hector, and Odysseus, which cast their heroes in roles more suited to Western feudalism than Ancient Greece. Certainly, the scholars of the Byzantine Empire had access to both the mythology and the histories of the classical period in superior number and quality to Western scholars, but even in the West, most educated people had heard of the Greek gods, of the Trojan War, and of the national characters of its most famous cities: Athens, Thebes, and Sparta. In later times, the disorderly democracy of Athens will be contrasted unfavorably with the good stern control exerted by Sparta over its subjects, but in the 13th century matters were somewhat different.''
''St. Augustine relates the myth of Athens’ founding in his City of God, casting the conflict between Athene and Poseidon as an allegory for the triumph of reason over passion. Athens was portrayed as a place where law and reason prevailed, largely due to the reputation of its most famous king, Theseus. In an allegorical sense, Theseus stood for the perfect man, divine and inherently good. These characteristics were transferred by association to the city he ruled, despite the fact that the days of the Athenian polity had little to do with the rule of King Theseus. In contrast, ancient Thebes was known for the nasty, animalistic intensity of its crimes. This is directly attributed to the origin of the people of Thebes, who were born from the dragon-teeth sown by Kadmus. Its history of incest, betrayal, patricide, and fratricide led to its branding as a den of iniquity and its name becoming poetic shorthand for moral corruption.''
''Sparta is little known in the 13th century except by those who have access to the histories. It is admired for its strict hierarchy, almost as a model of feudalism, and lauded for its military prowess. The Greek myths were not necessarily shunned because of their pagan origins. Writings of the Church Fathers, including St. Augustine’s On Church Doctrine, instructed Christians to read these myths in a number of ways: as moral allegory the mythic figures represent virtues, vices, desires, and inclinations; as exempla they demonstrate a virtue or failing; as physical allegory they can represent the forces and elements of the cosmos such as planets; and as typology they can stand for versions of Biblical characters — Deucalion was a type of Noah, Herakles a type of Samson, and both Orpheus and Theseus were types of Christ.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
