''This is a story of weakness and corruption, and of what can happen when that corruption feeds off man’s need to acquire land. It provides an opportunity for the players to interact with a little history, both in the form of working to reclaim marshland, a process called “inning”, and by coming into contact with William the Conqueror’s legacy. The nature of the story allows a broad mix of characters to take part. Magic may uncover the role of the Infernal, but diplomacy and intrigue may win the day.''

==Précis==

''The monastery at Battle, near the site where William seized the English Crown, has been draining marshland for generations in order to expand its estates. But the newly arrived Tobias Mahl, a respected engineer from Flanders, has changed the course of these drainage efforts and the work is now heading towards a vis source claimed and harvested by the covenant. Tobias’ secret reason for redirecting the work is is an ancient pagan site out beneath the marsh, heavy with votive offerings and murdered prisoners; victims who died without the beneficence of Christ. And their pain and anguish rages on, turned to Infernal malice by centuries of impotent hatred. Tobias Mahl is in league with demons who have promised him wealth, renown, and all other earthly rewards he can name in return for spreading their corrupting influence. Once the reclamation work reaches the Infernal burial ground, he will build his dark chapel. He will use it to spread disease from the marsh, and establish his chapel as the source of the cure. His own glory and wealth will grow as the fearful exchange faith for safety. But Tobias is not alone. It was Brother Daniel, slight and unnoticed, who poisoned Prior Michael, former master of the works, and suggested the abbey employ Tobias. Daniel suffers under his own corruption and has heard promises''
''from his own patron demon, which is content to let his corruption spread more slowly. The covenant becomes involved when word reaches it that a lucrative vis source out in the marsh is due to be destroyed by the abbey’s drainage efforts. Their aim is to find out why the work has suddenly changed course, discover the Infernal threats both out in the marsh and in the abbey, and carefully tread the line of the Hermetic Code when attempting to deal with it.''

==Introducing the Story==

''You have a number of options for making the story more immediate for your troupe, but the easiest is for the covenant to have a vis source in the marsh (see Nelda’s La''

[|

==Marsh Inning==

''The process of draining marsh land, reclaiming it for use as agricultural land, is called “inning.” Teams of men build dykes — great walls of earth and clay piled over a wooden core — connecting with other dykes to form enclosures. Water is then drained from this enclosed land by a network of channels or sewers, and sluices. The wetlands are inned a strip at a time. The reclaimed land is rich and fertile, vital for supporting a booming population. The fields in this reclaimed land are surrounded by ditches, known as “wet walls,” and these are spanned by small simple bridges. The common laws surrounding marsh inning were already well-defined by the thirteenth century, codified in the Lex Marisci (Laws of the Marsh). In southeast England, administration of these laws was given to the Jurats of the Level of Romney Marsh (described as “four and twenty lawful men of Romney Marsh”).''

|]
''ment, below). You could run a separate story to establish a source if the covenant doesn’t have one. Alternatively, the covenant could find its own populace pressed into service on the marsh under some obscure feudal obligation. The nature of this story also allows for events to be played out over time, perhaps picking up other stories between the events described here.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''The following characters are instrumental to the story.''

==Brother Daniel, Clerk of Battle Abbey==

''Brother Daniel is a quiet man with a nervous disposition. He is self-critical, brooding, and resentful of others. It was this resentment that the demon Gabrimael, Servant of the Weak, seized upon, offering Daniel the chance to be heard. And the demon seemed as good as his word, as Daniel has been given more responsibility and his station has risen. Daniel is wracked with regret about poisoning Michael, but believes it to have been necessary. His demonic patron reassures him that it was courage, not cowardice, that gave him the strength to kill.''
''Despite his years of servitude to the demon, Daniel does not see himself as truly sinful, but rather as taking what should rightfully have been his from the start. Even when Daniel poisoned Michael he sat with him while he died, taking his last confession so that his soul at least would be received by God. Daniel has taken to using a rosary, something novel in 1220. Some of the other monks may be suspicious of this device and Daniel’s overt piety.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre –1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 30 (30) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Educated, Clerk, Student of Infernal, Sense Holiness and Unholiness, Dark Secret (Infernally corrupted), Judged Unfairly, Monastic Vows, Weak Characteristics Personality Traits: Nervous +1, Resentful +2, Self-Critical +2, Curious about the Infernal +1 Reputations: Easily Corrupted (Infernal) 1 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +1, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense +1, Damage 0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Romney Marsh Lore 3 (geography), Artes Liberales 4 (arithmetic), Awareness 2 (noticing people talking about him), Brawl 1 (bludgeon), Church Lore 3 (abbeys), Civil and Canon Law 3 (Lex Marisci), Concentration 1 (rituals), English 5 (Sussex dialect), Etiquette 2 (the church), Folk Ken 3 (clergy), Guile 3 (elaborate lies), Infernal Lore 2+2 (demons), Latin 4 (church ceremonies), Medicine 2 (apothecary), Norman French 2 (expansive vocabulary), Philosophiae 2 (natural philosophy), Profession: Clerk 3 (finances), Profession: Scribe 3 (copying), Sense Holiness and Unholiness 2 (auras), Theology 4 (heresy) Equipment: Rosary beads and crucifix, and a black Benedictine habit. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Daniel is taller than his cowed posture suggests, with an apologetic face beneath his dark tonsure. He has recently taken to wearing a short beard, much to his abbot’s irritation, but Daniel feels secure behind it, believing that it hides his shame.''

[|

==Locating the Scenario==

''This story is set in the Stonehenge Tribunal and assumes the troupe’s covenant is located near to both Romney Marsh and Battle Abbey in the southeast. These add local color and historical flavor, but the names and locations can be changed to suit. The main events of this story are driven by the marsh inning, a complex project employing scores of men. Projects of similar scale, such as irrigation works or forest clearance, could be substituted where it better suits your saga. The threatened vis source (see Nelda’s Lament, below) is tied to the marsh, but Nelda’s story can be adapted in order to move the source somewhere more convenient for your saga. As for the overt threat, the Infernal spirits buried out beneath the marsh can originate from any historical conflict or may be entirely different if you choose.''

|]

==Tales of Mythic Europe Tobias Mahl, New Master of the Works==

''Born in Bruges, Tobias learned his letters and was ordained at the cathedral school at Noyon. But he was intent on the worldly life of money and soon returned to Bruges to work the marshes and learn his trade as an engineer. It was then that the demon Mammon sent one of his many minions to take human form and make himself a rival to Tobias. The rival belittled and humiliated Tobias at every turn. But soon, despairing at ever beating his mortal enemy, Tobias was happy to be ruled by his pride and he accepted Mammon’s dark guidance. Of course, with the pact made and his rival bested, Tobias’ name once more began to spread and his coffers swelled. Tobias has been in the grip of the Infernal for the last seven years. In that time, Tobias has studied the Goetic Arts, becoming a summoner of Infernal spirits. Tobias Mahl is calculatingly affable and confident, and makes for easy company. He is practical and pragmatic and exudes reliability. But he uses corrupt blessings (mixing urine with the communion wine or holy water) and his personal influence to slowly corrupt the laborers working in the marsh. Over time, they develop an Arrogant +1 personality trait.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 34 (34) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (15) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Summoner, Summoning, Commanding; Educated, Student of Infernal, Strong-Willed; Dark Secret (diabolist), Corrupted Abilities (Engineer), Avaricious, Vow (Celibacy) Personality Traits: Affable +2, Confident +1, Avaricious +2 Reputations: Fine Engineer +3 (Flanders), Fine Engineer +1 (Northern Europe), Avaricious +2 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +0, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense +0, Damage –1 Knife: Init +0, Attack +2, Defense +0, Damage +2 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Romney Marsh 1 (geography), Area Lore: Flanders 3 (Bruges), Artes Liberales 1 (arithmetic), Charm''
''2 (first impressions), Church Lore 2 (engineering works), Civil and Canon Law 1 (Lex Marisci), Concentration 3 (summoning), Engineer 4 (marsh inning), Etiquette 2 (the church), Flemish 5 (Bruges), Folk Ken 3 (clergy), French 3 (laborers), Infernal Lore 4 (demons), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Latin 4 (academic usage), Leadership 2 (inspiration), Penetration 2 (summoning), Philosophiae 1 (metaphysics), Teaching 2 (Summoning), Theology 3 (heresy) Goetic Arts: Commanding 9, Summoning 10 Equipment: Fine clothes and various note books on past engineering works. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A good-looking man who carries himself with confidence. He has fair hair that he does not tonsure. Since arriving at Battle, he has taken to wearing robes of black velvet; clearly expensive but respectfully close to the garb of his Benedictine hosts.''
''Tales of Mythic Europe The Corrupting Demons''
''The demonic patrons served by Daniel and Tobias do not appear in this story. They forsake their servants when Mammon’s plan seems doomed to failure. They may, however, reappear in later stories, seeking revenge or furthering some other plot. Should Tobias need information, he has the ability to summon one of Mammon’s servants and command it to tell him what he needs to know. Assume that, given time, the demons will be able to answer any question that could be known by a man with Intelligence +2 and the appropriate knowledge Ability at 5.''

==Willem, Foreman of the Works==

''Willem has been foreman of the the inning project in the marsh since his father died. As well as the job, he has inherited his father’s loud and direct manner, and sees nothing wrong with bolstering his instructions with language unsuitable for noble ears. He has an infamously short temper and doesn’t suffer shirkers lightly. He is loyal to the abbey and deferential to the monks to the exclusion of all else, except perhaps the well being of his men. Knowing no better, Willem believes Tobias’ unusual blessings to be some kind of continental fad, distasteful perhaps but no worse than any other medicine. All he knows is that the illness that afflicted his men has stopped, and that’s enough reason for him to carry on. Willem would make a good ally. If he can be persuaded that Tobias’ rituals are are harming his men, he will stand by his men over Tobias Mahl. Use Willem’s combat statistics for the other laborers if you need them.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 33 (33) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Laborer; Ways of the Marsh; Wrathful, Infamous, Arthritis Personality Traits: Blunt +2, Loyal to his men +2, Obedient to the Abbey +1 Reputations: Ill-tempered 4 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack N/A, Defense +3, Damage N/A Fist: Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +6, Damage +1''
''Hatchet: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +2, Damage +5 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Romney Marsh Lore 4 (geography), Awareness 4 (searching), Brawl 4 (Bludgeon), Carouse 3 (avoiding hangovers), Concentration 1 (keeping his mind on the job), English 5 (giving instructions), Folk Ken 4 (clergy), Hunt 3 (fishing), Laborer 4 (inning), Leadership 5 (laborers), Sailing 3 (on the marsh), Single Weapon (hatchet) 2, Survival 2 (on the marsh), Teaching 2 (Laborer) Equipment: Sheepskin jacket, heavy boots, strong gloves, shovel, leather cap. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Willem looks every inch the sour mood he carries around with him. He is burly and tanned and has the thick neck and shoulders of a man who spends all day every day moving things. Heavy things.''

==Richard, Abbot of Battle Abbey==

''By 1220, Richard has been abbot for five years, an experience that has brought with it a long-standing enmity with successive Bishops of Chichester (Richard Poore from 1215, Ranulf of Wareham from 1218, and Ralph Neville from 1222) over Battle’s independence from the Chichester diocese. He is a steely man in his mid-forties, even tempered and measured, open to arguments, but expecting his word to be followed. There are a few ways to reach Richard and bring him on the characters’ side. On a professional level, his concern is for the abbey, specifically its independence and its wealth. He also takes a direct interest in the progress of the new hall currently being built at the abbey. On a more personal level, he enjoys music and poetry, though he has not played for many years and his workload leaves little time for entertainment. Those who visit his office may notice a dusty flute of some age sitting on the mantle above the fireplace. Richard will not easily believe accusations against members of his abbey.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 45 (45) Decrepitude: 0''
''Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (10) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Clear Thinker, Temporal Influence; Monastic Vows; Higher Purpose (retaining Battle’s independence), Ability Block (Martial) Personality Traits: Industrious 1, Loyal to Battle Abbey 2, Measured 2 Reputations: Abbot of Battle Abbey (Sussex) 4, Troublesome (Ecclesiastic circles) 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense 0, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense 0, Damage –1 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Battle Estates 3 (politics), Artes Liberales 3 (rhetoric), Bargain 5 (hard sell), Battle Abbey Lore 3 (the dispute with Chichester), Church Lore 3 (holy orders), Civil and Canon Law 3 (Lex Marisci), Dutch 3 (written), English 5 (Sussex), Etiquette 2 (receiving visitors), Flemish 3 (written), Folk Ken 4 (supplicants), Intrigue 4 (alliances), Latin 4 (church ceremonies), Leadership 5 (impressing his authority), Music 1 (flute), Norman French 4 (poetry), Philosophiae 2 (moral philosophy), Theology 4 (biblical knowledge) Equipment: Benedictine robes, gold crucifix, ring of office. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Stern and unapologetic, Richard is a tall man with thinning gray hair long past any form of tonsure. Richard has deep searching eyes and a strong brow that gives him an intelligent aspect.''

==Marsh Crows, Spirits of Illness==

''These spirits of illness have a power, Diseased Possession (described in the nearby insert box), that inflicts an illness on their victim. They are able to suspend the symptoms of the disease if the host curses God or Christ for his bad luck. In this way, the host is taught to take the Lord’s name in vain, and the tiny demon achieves a small victory over God. Marsh Crows are cowardly, and obey if commanded by a more-powerful demon or its agent. They have an incredible knowledge of Medicine and are, if controlled, superb teachers of the subject. Becoming the student of a Marsh Crow, however, corrupts the student’s Medicine Ability (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 87).''
''Characteristics: Int –1, Per +1, Pre –3, Com 0, Str –3, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +3 Order: Tempters Infernal Might: 5 Size: –5 Virtues and Flaws: Lightning Reflexes (Initiative on Surprise Attack: +9), Puissant Teaching; Cruel, WeakWilled Personality Traits: Brave –2, Selfish +5, Spiteful +3 Reputations: Cowardly (Infernal) 1 Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Dodge: Init +3, Attack N/A, Defense +7, Damage N/A Bite: Init +3, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage –3 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: Dead (1+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (dodge), English 5, Guile 4 (elaborate lies), Latin 4 (medical terms), Medicine 5 (disease), Stealth 3 (hide), Teaching 5 +2 (Medicine) Powers: Diseased Possession, 4 points, Init +2, Mentem (–15 base penetration): See insert. Weakness: They cannot stand the taste of Sea Wormwood (a plant found on the marsh). Vis: The left claw of a Marsh Crow provides 1 pawn of Corpus vis.''

[|

==New Power: Diseased Possession==

''Diseased Possession, 4 points, Init +2, Mentem: If this power penetrates, the Might points spent from the demon’s Might Pool enter the possessed target. The victim receives a Disease Avoidance roll, which, if successful, immediately expels the demon. The symptoms of the demon’s disease manifest immediately, but otherwise it progresses and is treated like a natural disease. These demons of disease must use all of their Might when possessing a target, as the demon must retain at least 1 point of Might in reserve to maintain possession of the victim. The demon cannot refresh the Might points used to possess the victim from its usual Might pool. If the demon is exorcized or destroyed with magic, the symptoms of the disease cease immediately, although any damage caused by the disease remains. The demon is expelled if the victim is cured of the disease by medical or magical means. See Art & Academe, page 45 for more details.''

|]

==Tales of Mythic Europe==

''Appearance: Ragged crows with leering human eyes, they are never seen individually. They prefer to remain at a distance when in physical form, and are often seen as dark shapes flitting in the distance. Their presence on the marsh is unusual, as they usually remain close to Infernal auras. On an Intelligence + Area (Romney Marsh) Lore + Simple Die against an Ease Factor of 9, characters will find the presence of the crows strange as they are not natural marsh birds.''

==The Vengeful Dead==

''These spirits are not true demons, but are instead ghosts that have long since embraced the Infernal out of a desire for vengeance on the world that left them behind. They have been summoned and bound by Tobias, and have taken control of their own corpses.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +3 Infernal Might: 10 Size: 0 Age: N/A Decrepitude: N/A Warping Score: N/A Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Tough, Puissant Single Weapon, Piercing Gaze Personality Traits: Feral +1, Violent +2, Bitter +3 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Dodge: Init +3, Attack N/A, Defense +6, Damage N/A Claws: Init +3, Attack +6, Defense +7, Damage +1 Spear, Short: Init +5, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +6 Sword, Long: Init +5, Attack +14, Defense +12, Damage +7 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics (running) 3, Brawl (claws) 3, Romney Marsh Lore (geography) 2, Single Weapon (long sword) 5 Powers: The Forgiving Earth, 2 points, Init +0, Terram: This power allows the body hosting the vengeful dead to move beneath the ground unhindered by the earth. The power ends when the host body surfaces. A Watery Grave, 1 point, Init +3, Terram: This power rapidly moves the earth aside from under the feet of a target.''
''The space fills with water and the target drops into the marsh. The vengeful dead use this power when they are under their target, after traveling beneath the surface. When the target falls into the marsh, the vengeful dead grapples him, attempting to drown him. Vis: 2 pawn of Corpus, in its eyes. Appearance: These cadaverous foes have bright white eyes that shine out from their stretched skin, naturally tanned by centuries submerged in the marsh. They wield their broken and bent swords with proficiency that belies their condition. Their movements are both fluid and ragged, as though some invisible controlling spirit controls their limbs, leaving their bodies to follow.''

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''There is no definitive course through this story. Instead, there are three main “acts:” Introductions, Investigations, and Confrontations. Each of the sections below suggest a number of potential “scenes” representing actions the players may want to pursue. For atmosphere, aim to run the marsh-related scenes in the autumn or winter seasons. This will allow you to play upon the short, dark days, the cold, and the near-constant rain and drizzle. The marsh should be a cold and miserable place, all the better to hide the effects of the Infernal.''
''The aim of this section is to draw the covenant into Tobias’ plans for the marsh.''

===The Marsh Crows Gather===

''As members of the covenant approach Nelda’s Lament to collect vis, they disturb a number of birds — marsh crows — which fly off and rapidly disappear into the marsh. They then find the body of Oswold, a local drunkard killed by the crows and their infernal powers. Oswold’s spirit (Brave –, Drunk +2) can still be reached, but he only remembers being called to from the marsh and then feeling ill. He does not know how long he wandered. The marsh crows report this incident to Tobias.''

===a Letter From the Abbey===

''Shortly after Oswold’s body is found, the covenant receives a letter from the abbey, signed by Tobias Mahl, explaining that “the scholars” will no longer be permitted to collect their “herbs and other such roots” from land “held by this abbey under the Lex Marisci.” The letter is direct and leaves little room for negotiation; the abbey is exercising its rights effective immediately.''

==Investigations==

''This part of the story aims to reveal the Infernal leanings of both Tobias Mahl and Brother Daniel, and uncover the threat out in the marsh. Discovering the burial ground and its Infernal nature comes down to detective work: asking why Tobias changed the inning’s direction, accessing the new plans, and then searching the right areas. Finding the burial ground should then lead to suspicions that Tobias is in league with dark forces. Discovering Daniel’s corruption is much harder, and the covenant may not find it out even after this story is done. In that case, treat it as a hook into further stories.''

===Rumors===

''Before they commit to any action, the covenant members may first want to unearth any rumors about the abbey, the new arrival, the marsh work, and the death of Prior Michael. Depending on where the rumors are sought, Communication + Carouse or Intrigue are appropriate.''
''Result Information 6+ The inning work had to be suspended for a week last month through illness. 6+ Prior Michael died a season ago. 9+ The new master of the works is from Flanders and he speaks no English. 12+ The new master of the works is called Tobias Mahl and he’s a priest. 15+ The foreman of the works isn’t happy that they’ve changed the plans. 15+ Prior Michael died within two nights of being taken ill. 18+ Brother Daniel took Prior Michael’s last confession before he died.''

[|

==Story Event Timing==

''If the covenant chooses to do nothing about the inning, the vis source eventually succumbs to the abbey as the marsh is reclaimed, and Tobias moves relentlessly on to the burial ground. The list below shows when the events leading up to the story took place, and suggests timing for when future events will take place.''
''Time Event Three months ago Daniel poisoned Prior Michael, former master of the work. One month ago Tobias Mahl arrived in Battle to become the new master of the inning works. Now The story begins. Next season The inning reaches the vis source in the marsh. In three seasons The inning reaches the burial site in the marsh. In five seasons Tobias breaks ground on his Infernal chapel. In eight seasons Tobias completes his chapel. In nine seasons Illness spreads throughout the marsh and beyond.''

==Nelda’s Lament==

''Magic: Level 3 The story goes that Nelda was the daughter of a powerful and rich chieftain. She fled his house and his riches in order to marry a lowly shepherd. They were happy until the chieftain’s men found them and chased the shepherd out into the marsh. Nelda followed swiftly but lost, alone, and despairing she slipped into a stream and was drowned, never knowing if her beloved husband had lived or died. Now, when autumn turns to winter, the place where she died seems to remember her. It starts with echoes of her voice, calling out again and again for Eadgar, her husband. The echoes can be followed to the place where Nelda drowned, and there she appears, bent double on her knees, grasping at the earth, wailing and crying with a despair like no other. Those without Magic Resistance or supernatural abilities experience a temporary +1 Despair Personality Trait. Those affected by the trait who break down and cry with Nelda’s spirit find that their tears contain Mentem vis. Six pawns of Mentem vis can be collected on the night that Nelda returns.''

|]
''It is assumed that any character who has some basic knowledge of the area will know about the abbey and its connection with the marsh. Those with a little Civil and Canon Lore may also know of the Lex Marisci (on a result of 6 or more) and may know (on a result of 9 or more) that the abbey has a strong property claim to much of the marsh.''

===Searching the Marsh===

''On searching the marsh, the covenant’s agents will find the burial ground if they have access to Tobias’ paperwork, or if they use Intellego Vim magic (to detect the Infernal aura) and make a successful Intelligence + Romney Marsh Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 12. The covenant’s group can attempt a roll every two weeks of searching.''

==The Marsh==

''The Romney Marsh is a large open expanse of waterlogged flatlands, run through with waterways and boggy reed beds. Play upon the cold and the wet and the way the wind carries people’s voices away. The marsh should be an uncomfortable place, and should be as palpable a character as Brother Daniel or Tobias Mahl. Any characters with Ways of the Marsh (ArM5, page 50) gain the usual +3 bonus on many rolls throughout this story.''

===Traveling and Working in the Wetlands===

''Each day, those traveling the marsh by foot automatically lose a long-term Fatigue level and must also make a Stamina + Athletics + simple die against an Ease Factor of 9 or lose a second. Beasts of burden used in the marsh also suffer the fatigue. The few roads that cross the marsh run along the tops of natural ridges. Most travel in the marsh itself is by waterway in small flat-bottomed boats, and many local peasants scratch a meagre living as ferrymen, taking what few passengers there are up and down the waterways. As it is so difficult to get carts, wagons, or even draft animals onto the marsh, hand carts are used in their place where goods need to be moved overland. Combatants fighting in the marsh suffer two extra botch dice and a –3 penalty to attack and defense rolls. This is in addition to any penalties due to Infernal auras or effects. Botches likely involve stumbling or slipping on the wet and uneven ground. Those working in the marsh for season or more receive a –2 living conditions penalty for that year.''

===Visiting the Abbey===

''The monks are cordial, if a little unprepared for unannounced visitors. For notes on how those with The Gift are received, refer to ArM5, page 76. If the nature of the covenant is known to the abbey, assume that Daniel and Tobias are also aware of it. Visitors concerned with the marsh are led to the common room and asked to wait. After a while Daniel will bustle in, dropping wax tablets in his wake. The other monks look on with derision as Daniel stoops to clear up after himself. Daniel will appear shocked by any talk of dangers (though a successful Communication + Folk Ken + simple roll against an Ease Factor of 12 suggests he’s not being truthful). He comes across as ineffectual, but promises to''

[|

==Marsh Sickness==

''Serious Sanguine Disease, Severity 11 Stable: 9, Improve: 12, Interval: Month Marsh Sickness (malaria) is caused by the body reacting to the unhealthy waters of the marsh. Symptoms: Bouts of high fever, chills, and sweating accompanied by nausea, abdominal cramps, fatigue, and muscle pain. Marsh sickness has been described above in accordance with the disease rules in Art & Academe. If you do not have those on hand, use the disease rules in the core rulebook (ArM5, page 180) and treat this disease as a Medium Wound. To avoid contracting the disease, the character must make a Disease Avoidance roll.''

===Disease Avoidance: Stamina + Living Conditions Modifier + (Corpus/5) + Wound Penalty + Stress Die===


===Ease Factor: Stable Ease Factor of the Disease===

''If the character fails the roll, he starts to suffer the effects. If the Disease Avoidance roll botches, then the disease is contracted at one step (for each 0 on the botch dice) more serious than usual.''

|]
''record the covenant’s concerns and to pass them on. And he does; to Tobias Mahl. Talk of Prior Michael will elicit a nervous accident from Daniel — perhaps a spilled drink, or a dropped tablet. He will try to use this to change the subject. A successful Peception + Folk Ken roll against an Ease Factor of 9 suggests he’s hiding something. If pushed, he simply apologizes and claims that he is needed elsewhere. The covenant members will find it hard to gain access to the abbot. If they visit again on the same business, they are met by Tobias, who takes them to his office. He bluffs that he is currently drawing up alternate plans (he has prepared drawings to prove it) and regrets that things have taken so long. Requesting an audience in connection with the building work will be successful, as the abbot is taking a personal interest in its progress.''

==The Abbey of St. Martin at the Place of Battle==

''Dominion (Just): Level 5 (6 on Martinmas, November 11) Battle Abbey was founded on the spot where Harold Godwinson died in battle against William. There has been a population of around 50 brothers ever since the original Benedictine monks arrived from Marmoutier in Normandy. The abbey is now a wealthy power in the region as it owns great swathes of the land all about, much of it, like Romney Marsh, many miles distant from the abbey itself. In 1220, the current abbot is Richard. He will hold the position until his death in 1235 (when Ralph de Covintre is elected). The abbey is currently building a new hall, and so the air is thick with ropes and pulleys and the sound, smell, and dust of stone being worked. Work will not be complete for some years, so the sights and sounds of building will dominate most visits to the abbey. Brother Daniel serves as clerk to this building project, as well as to the work in the marsh.''

===The Common Room===

''Visitors to the abbey are invited to wait in the common room, a long chamber with cloisters at either side and two rows of pillars running its length supporting a vaulted ceiling. Many of the monks will be found here reading, talking, or simply contemplating.''

===The Dormitory===

''Most of the brothers at the abbey, including Daniel, sleep in the dormitory. Beds line the walls, all the same except one. Beneath Daniel’s bed there is a loose board concealing two infernal texts — the De Operatione Daemonum and Liber Apologeticus — and a bottle of poison. It takes a Perception + Awareness Simple Roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to find the board.''

[|

==Infernal Texts==

''The following infernal texts are hidden beneath Daniel’s bed.''

===de Operatione Daemonum===

''Tractatus on Infernal Lore with a Source Quality of 7. This tractatus by the Byzantine Michael Psellus purports to be a classification of demons, but Psellus’ hand was guided by the very demons he writes of, so few of the details may be relied upon with any certainty. This copy is a somewhat small book, clearly very old, and apparently written by many different hands (a strange affliction that affects any copy made of this book).''

===Liber Apologeticus===

''Tractatus on Infernal Lore with a Source Quality of 8. On casual inspection, this tractatus by the Manichaean preacher Priscillian of Ávila appears to be a book on Christian Theology. The orthodox content has been corrupted, however, and the many allusions to magic and misleading theological ideas it actually contains may be studied towards understanding of the Infernal. Some pages appear to have been cut from the book. None of the Infernal content is missing, so this does not impair study, but it does plant the seed of curiosity in the mind of the reader. Treat a season studying the Apologeticus as a season of personal influence (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 23) with a total of 8 + the characters worst “negative” personality trait. For Daniel, this is his “Resentful +2” for a total of 10. This provides a further “Curious about the Infernal” personality trait.''

|]

===Problems for the Abbey===

''The abbey is famous not only for its great wealth, but also for its long-running dispute with the Bishop of Chichester. When William ordered the founding of the abbey, he decreed that it would be exempt from ecclesiastic control. It has remained so ever since, despite the efforts of the diocese of Chichester to bring it under its authority. Successive Bishops have tried to overturn William’s ruling, and have proven dedicated enemies. Recently (1211), the abbey (under John de Dubra) was able to buy privilege from King John for the sum of 1500 marks, confirming the monks’ right to appoint their own abbots, a move that further angered the then Bishop of Chichester, Simon Fitz Robert. In 1222, Ralph Neville is appointed Bishop of Chich''
''ester, and the next year he appeals to Rome for help in bringing the abbey into line. It is not until 1235 that Rome grants certain rights to the Bishop of Chichester, but rights that may only be exercised with the agreement of the abbot; an apparent victory for the abbey. This story is assumed to take place between Ralph Neville’s political play to Rome and the death of Abbot Richard. During that time, the abbey, and Richard in particular, is sensitive to anything that might affect its case with Rome. Tobias Mahl knows this, and if he senses that Richard is being swayed by the covenant, he will set his intrigue to work and attempt to persuade Richard that the abbey cannot be seen to be commanded from without (especially if the true nature of the covenant is known).''

===Visiting the Inning Work===

''Willem is in charge when the player characters arrive at the marsh, and Tobias is not present, though he will arrive with unnatural haste. There are plans and rough maps here that show both the old course of the inning and the new. The new course involves more work (though Willem will not admit it for fear of being thought a shirker). If the covenant puts any of its men into the workforce, they are worked hard by Willem but, if Tobias believes them to be working for the covenant, they may quickly succumb to illness. Tobias instructs the spirits of illness to lay them low (see Diseased Possession, earlier) while Daniel lays Maledictions upon them to make their condition worse.''

==The Burial Ground==

''Infernal: Level 3 Waterways and wetlands had special significance for the ancient pagan tribes of Britain, as places that connected the world of the living to the worlds beyond; powerful spirits accepted their votive offerings of ritually broken goods in return for blessings. But there were also times when humans were killed and left in the marsh. In some cases they were special people destined for such a fate, but in others they were criminals or prisoners captured in battle. With the coming of the word of Christ, the pagan ways disappeared and with their passing, many of the spirits of the waterways left the mundane world, and the Infernal was quick to fill the resulting vacuum.''
''As this place will eventually hold his chapel, Tobias has made sure that the site is protected. In his earliest visits he summoned the ghosts he found there into their own preserved bodies. He commanded them to watch and wait and kill those who took steps to harm the place.''

===Before the Inning Starts===

''From the surface, by mundane means, there is nothing to see, but magic can detect the centuries of power distilled in the roots of the reeds and sedges as ten pawns of Corpus vis. The preserved bodies of the dead can also be found all around, apparently following the line of an old, now-submerged stream. Characters succeeding in a Perception + Awareness + simple die against an Ease Factor of 9 discover traces of Tobias’ summoning circles in the ground, some marked with salt and dotted with candle wax. A single group of five vengeful dead have been left here to protect the site.''

===While the Inning Is in Progress===

''There is a constant workforce of around twenty men at the inning works. They spend their days digging ditches, fetching planks for the retaining walls, piling sodden earth to form the dykes, and laying down simple wooden walkways. It’s a dangerous place as walls can collapse, axes and saws may slip, and the marsh claims the unwary. By this time the ground has been drained and work is going on apace to build up the land into a mound that will support the chapel. If needed, the workmen (split them into untrained groups, one with Willem acting as vanguard) attempt to see off any who come to disrupt their work. But they are not suicidal, and Willem ultimately gives way rather than see his men killed. In this case, they defend valiantly and then try to disengage and flee. Tobias’ bodily ghosts will only rise in the night to defend the burial ground. There should be enough groups to give your troupe a contest; one group for any grogs present and another group for every two magi.''

===Building Work===

''Unless stopped early, the building of his chapel occupies Tobias’ time over the next two years. In this time, the marsh inning progresses as before.''
''A gang of twenty laborers from nearby Winchelsea will be on site on any given day, and there is a steady stream of materials and men going to the chapel site. The abbot knows of the chapel, and has agreed to its building, though its true nature is, of course, unknown to him.''

==Confrontations==

''The covenant members may simply decide to come to some arrangement with the abbey about specific areas of the marsh, and protect both their vis source and the burial ground; they may decide to reveal Tobias Mahl as a corrupting influence; they could attempt to win back Brother Daniel’s forfeit soul; or they might decide on more-direct measures. How the confrontation plays out depends on how long the covenant decides to leave matters.''

===Confronting Tobias===

''Tobias’ pride and confidence are fuelled by the Infernal, and he employs them in any direct confrontation. If the nature of the covenant is known, then Tobias has discovered that their oath prohibits the magi from interfering with mundane affairs. He will gladly point out that the inning work is being done by the abbey, and is firmly outside the influence of the Order. He does, however, offer an accommodation. If he is made aware of the vis source that the marsh work threatens, he agrees to preserve it and ensure it is kept free of any “unwanted influence.” He will also ensure that the covenant enjoys the “beneficence of his chapel,” without any obligation being owed in either direction. If the covenant stands firm, Tobias will lie, saying he needs to “reconsider his position” with the abbey in light of threats to his safety. This is untrue and is simply a ploy in order to buy him time. If he survives this confrontation, he starts working against the covenant from within the abbey, commanding the Marsh Crows to bring sickness to those who come and go from the covenant.''

===Negotiations With the Abbot===

''Money may be the simplest way in which the covenant can not only safeguard their vis source in the marsh, but also prevent the Infernal area falling into evil hands. The abbey may be willing to negotiate a price for the land, essentially leasing the land to the covenant.''
''Richard is a shrewd negotiator and ensures that the land is leased, with all right and titles, for a period of 70 years and no more. Richard is looking to the long game, ensuring that the land returns to the abbey in a few generations. Richard will start the negotiations on 20 pounds of silver each year for the land (half a Lesser Income Source if using the rules in Covenants, page 56). He will accept no less than 10 pounds, but expects to settle somewhere in between. Richard also views the accommodation as a favor to the covenant and will make it clear that they owe him more than just silver. If the covenant manages to lease the land from the abbey, Tobias remains at Battle, working against the covenant, intent on finding some way to make it forfeit the land.''

===Disrupting the Work By Force===

''If the covenant decides to disrupt the inning, let the players use their ingenuity but remember that there are dark spirits at work. These spirits will probably be impotent against the Parma Magica, so they target any grogs, servants, or hired men instead of magi. The covenant may soon find its population succumbing to disease faster than the magi can cope with it. Those taking direct action against the inning work are set upon by Marsh Crows who attempt to lay them low with their disease. The vengeful dead rise to protect their land, as well. This options is the one that most contravenes the Code of Hermes, and experienced magi know enough to skirt the code or to avoid being caught. Despite its current Infernal taint, the inning work is part of the mundane world, and to disrupt it by force would be a direct challenge to the abbey’s authority that could have ramifications beyond the marsh.''

===Exposing the Infernal===

''It is one thing to accuse a cleric of diabolism, but another to prove it. Any forced confessions with magi behind them will seem, in themselves, unnatural. The problem here for the covenant is to find the evidence that will convict Tobias, Daniel, or both. Willem is a credible witness to Tobias’ “blessings,” if he can be persuaded of their true intent. Tobias will deny all accusations and will make a show of being affronted. He threatens the abbot with his departure, hoping to force Richard to side with him. While Tobias’ own corruption leaves few physical clues, Daniel will confess and throw himself on Richard’s mercy if he is presented with the Infernal texts and the poison. It is worth noting that Gabrimael has been coerced into helping his fellow demon Mammon, and would enjoy nothing better than seeing Mammon humiliated by failure. Daniel does not know this at the start, but if Gabrimael senses that the covenant is closing in on Tobias, he plants new seeds of resentment towards Tobias.''

===The Consecration of the Church===

''If the covenant leaves the inning work to continue, after two years Tobias will be able to build his small chapel on the burial ground, which he then uses to conduct his dark rites and bring malice to the region. Illness spreads from the marsh to the nearby towns of Rye and Winchelsea. At this point, Tobias’ congregation start spreading the word that they have a cure for the illness, if only the afflicted do as they say.''

[|

==The Infernal Chapel==

''Infernal (Perfidious aura tainted with Hypocrisy): Level 4 When complete, the chapel is a small two-story stone building, with a bell tower three stories high. The second level of the chapel, which is kept locked to visitors, is where Tobias practices his Infernal rituals in seclusion. Once the disease starts spreading to nearby villages, a stream of supplicants comes to the chapel seeking respite from the illness. Tobias, aided by Daniel, is only too happy to give them his blessing. Those attacking the chapel now find two groups of the vengeful dead to face any grogs, and one additional''
''group per magus. The odds should feel overwhelming, but also provide opportunities for heroic play.''

===The Chapel Bell===

''Tobias commissioned the chapel bell from the bellfounder Hugh of Gloucester, one of the demon Mammon’s other devotees. Hugh’s craft aligned the bell to the Infernal, with the result that infernal spirits hear the voice of Hell in its chimes and may be drawn to the sound. Characters with Sense Holiness and Unholiness (ArM5, page 67) may hear the ringing of the bell as an Unholy sound, discordant and unGodly.''

|]

==Tales of Mythic Europe Rewards and Consequences==

''Apart from suitable Confidence and experience points for each character taking part (5 to 10 experience points should be available depending on how many sessions the story took), the covenant itself may pick up various rewards. If handled well, the abbey itself may become a Local''
''Ally (Covenants, page 21). If the covenant chooses to use Chichester as leverage against the abbey, they will find the Bishop of Chichester eager to use his new friends again, and will have gained the antipathy of Battle Abbey. If the chapel is built, it will become a lodestone for the Infernal, and the nearby covenant will have to deal with its evil influence for years to come. But the worst of this will be the great illness that falls on the surrounding countryside, cured only by Tobias’ unholy blessing.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
