
=Eustace the Monk=

''Eustace the Monk is a pirate and diabolist who controls a small island in the English Channel. His fleet is so powerful that the kings of England and France bid for his services during their wars. The characters need to disperse Eustace’s forces. They may do this with a naval battle, followed by a siege of his harbor, or by raiding his island base. A surprise invasion of Sark circumvents a battle with Eustace’s fleet, but makes the fight for the island more ferocious.''

==Changing the Story==

''Eustace’s role as a pirate prince controlling the waters between two kingdoms can be easily moved to many other parts of Mythic Europe. His name needs to be altered to suit regional cultures. The story comes down to one or two set piece battles. Characters lacking direct skill in combat can use their magic to reduce the difficulty faced by mundane forces fighting these battles. The historical Eustace died in 1215, and some troupes who prefer strongly historical games may need a reasonable explanation to return Eustace to the saga. The options given below alter the primary antagonist, and may suit some player character groups better than the version of Eustace given later in the text.''
''• Eustace’s brothers attempt to keep his pirate empire together after his death, and the lead character''
''is simply one of them. This allows the storyguide to run the scenario given here with minimal change. • Eustace’s nephew, William le Moine (or Guillaume in Frenchspeaking areas) takes control of the remnants of his uncle’s fleet. William is not a diabolist, so his fleet lacks many of the supernatural surprises discussed later in the chapter. Eustace’s successors take le Moine (“the Monk”) as their title, to mark their inheritance of his power, even if the name is not literally correct, in that none of them have been monks. • Eustace’s daughter, described later, was not successfully executed by King John, and she takes control of the remnants of her father’s fleet. Eustace’s daughter survived incineration, so she has magical abilities, but they may not match his. • An impostor may take Eustace’s name, since it strikes dread into nearby noblemen, and uses it to add cachet to his own operation. This impostor may be a simple pirate, another diabolist of Eustace’s type, or a faerie. • After his defeat, Eustace’s head was struck from his body and taken to Canterbury. His body was cut into tiny pieces, and these flung from his ship as it was sailed to England. This sort of ritual is identical to that used to defeat certain types of vampire. Eustace may have the Infernal ability to regenerate his body from fragments''
''of his corpse. One of his followers may have stolen his head from Canterbury, or retained one of the pieces of his flesh. • Eustace may have died, but has been returned to the world by his Infernal masters as the lord of a fleet of undead pirates.''

==Dramatis Personae: The Forces of Evil==

''Eustace, his associates, and his servants are the most significant characters in this story.''

==Eustace le Moine==

''Eustace’s history is given here in detail because it contains elements that indicate weaknesses players may exploit. His history is divided into strata, each corresponding to what a character knows Storyguides using a revived Eustace should include the information marked with an asterisk (*) and present all information in the past tense. All of the results below assume that the information learned on lower rolls is also known. If a player rolls sufficiently high, they will learn most of Eustace’s history with the possible exception of that linked to specific Abilities.''
''Eustace’s History Intelligence + (appropriate Lore) + stress die''
''Roll: 3+ Result: Eustace the Monk is the lord of a band of pirates who control the English Channel. They are based on a tiny island called Sark. Eustace has taken the French side against the English, and the English side against the French, as bribery and whim direct him. He is rumored to have magical powers, granted by the Devil.''
''Roll: 6+ Result: Eustace the Monk was born in 1170, in Course, Normandy. He was the son of a baron of Boulonnais. Eustace was raised as a knight, but was promised to the Church. His father died in an ambush set by Hainfrois de Heresinghen, a powerful nobleman of the Count’s court. Judicial combat of champions was permitted, but Eustace’s man lost. Eustace worked for the Count for a time, as one of his treasurers, and then fell out with him. He took to the forests of Boulonnais, using disguises, robbery, magic and arson to harass the court. Eventually he was driven off and fled to England.''
''Roll: 9+ Result: King John welcomed Eustace to his court and gifted him 30 galleys, taking Eustace’s daughter as hostage to the brigand’s good behavior. Eustace used this fleet to ravage the coasts of Normandy from 1204 to 1211, seizing Sark as an advanced base for resupply. John rewarded Eustace with substantial lands near Whichelsea, and with a great palace in London, costing just less than 500 pounds. Eustace thought the palace in London insufficiently grand, so he pulled it down and built a more ostentatious one, to John’s annoyance. The two later fell out, and Eustace now works for the French king instead.''

==A Note on The Powers of Demons==

''Many demons have powers which are variants of those gathered in this insert.''
''Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus: Allows demons to manufacture a solid body from the ambient, unformed matter of the universe. They may only take the form described in their Appearance. Manifesting takes (Might) rounds, but dissolving again requires only one round of concentration. A demon in spiritual form may not use its physical Characteristics. Demons are forced to abandon this form on Holy Saturday. Contagious Obsession: 1 point per victim, Init 0, Mentem: If a person succumbs to the Obsession power, described later, then that person becomes a carrier. If they frighten another person, that person must make the same Personality roll given in the Obsession power or become afraid and also become a carrier. Each new victim costs the demon a Might point, and the contagiousness ceases when the demon runs out of Might, or when a day passes in which no new victim is infected.''
''Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem: The demon uses this power to appear in, and distort, the dreams of mortals. Form of Wickedness, 2 points, Init –1, Mentem: This power allows the demon to manufacture a form of pure sin. The demon can only hold this form for a single round, and then must either fade into its spiritual form, or take a host body. This shadowy body is indescribable and terrible, and forces the ten closest people, if they lack sufficient Magic Resistance, to succumb to the sin that the demon represents. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: When a person is committing a sinful thought or dead, the demon may impose its Obsession Trait if this Power defeats Magic Resistance. This gives the person a temporary Personality trait of equal to the number of points spent, and at the next opportunity they must make a roll, opposed by any suitable Personality trait, to prevent them doing something self-degrading. If the Obsession fails, the temporary trait is lost. If it succeeds, the trait is acquired permanently.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Note on the Weaknesses of Demons==

''Each demon in this chapter has a Weakness listed. Characters know this weakness if they are aware the demon exists, consult a relevant source, and make an Intelligence + Infernal Lore roll against an Ease factor of 9 + (Might / 5). If the weakness is a material, then in the presence of their weakness these demons must flee. They cannot regain Might while their weakness is present. If the weakness is a protected group, the demon cannot harm members of that group.''

|}

==A Note on Tainted Vis==

''Detailed information on tainted vis can be found in Realms of Power: The Infernal, on pages 18 and 19. Those troupes not using that set of rules might instead assume that all tainted vis:''
''• Adds 5 instead of 2 to casting totals. • Adds three botch dice per pawn, for non-Infernally aligned users. • Causes a temporary Personality trait of 1, in a sin appropriate to the original demon, in any person who carries the tainted vis for a year. This trait becomes permanent if the carrier successfully acts on the Trait.''

==Eustace the Monk==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 50 (50) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 5 (0) Confidence Score: 3 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Knight, Amorphous*, False Powers**, Wealthy, Aptitude for Piracy***, 2 x Mentored by Demons****, Second Sight, Student of the Infernal, Temporal Influence, Proud, Tainted Life, Corrupted Abilities, False Power, No Tradition, Overconfident, Tainted With Evil, Witch Marks. *	  Character can change shape to any single human form at midnight, so long as the form does not belong to a specified individual. ** 	See Powers, below ***	 +3 on all Profession: Pirate rolls, so long as they are used for sinful ends. –3 if used for neutral or good reasons. **** Character has 100 additional XP. He knows he was taught by demons. Personality Traits: Proud +5, Ruthless +3, Derogatory +1 Reputations: Pirate lord 6 (everyone who uses the English Channel), Infernal wizard 2 (just about everybody), Hero of the peasantry 3 (Brittany). Combat: Short sword: Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +5 Soak: +5, lightly armored. Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5. Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–50), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Breton Forest 5* (guerilla warfare), Athletics 1 (in forests), Awareness 2 (am''
''bushes), Brawl 4 (with drunkards), Civil and Canon Law 3 (as relating to Bretons), Etiquette 3 (Breton court), French 5 (nobles), Hunt 1 (forest), Infernal Lore 4+2 (servile demons)*, Intrigue 4 (Breton court), Leadership 6* (pirates), Music 1 (monastic singing), Organization Lore: Fleet 4 (governance), Profession: Piracy 7+3*** (planning raids), Ride 3 (in battle), Single Weapon 8 (short sword)*, Survival 4 (forest)*, Carouse 5 (pirates), Charm 3 (people he hates), (False) Second Sight 3 (demons)**, Swim 3 (sea), Theology (monastic duties) 2 *	  Corrupted: –3 if used for neutral or virtuous causes. ** Infernally tainted Second Sight. No mechanical effect, but changes what he sees so that he is more likely to sin. *** Provided use is sinful, –3 if neutral or virtuous. Powers: Death prophecy, 0 points, Init 0, Vim:  Eustace must die at sea. He’s simply unable to die on land. Regardless of how much he suffers on land, his servants can eventually put him back together. Honest liar, 0 points, Init –4, Mentem  Eustace can tell the truth in ways which cause his victims to misunderstand him, and suffer for it. For example he was once stopped by his enemy, who stopped him on the road and asked “Have you seen Eustace the Monk today?” and Eustace answered “I saw him on this highway, my lord, but you’ll never catch him.” The deluded nobleman then spurred away at speed, mistakenly believing the reply to mean the Eustace was far away. Mechanically, this power grants a Personality Trait, Gullible +3, for the rest of the day, but this cloud''
''ed thinking only affects what Eustace has said.  (Base 15 (Debauchery/Psychomachia, Realms of Power: The Infernal page 112) +2 Voice, +2 Sun) Invisible Raiders, 0 points*, Init –4, Imaginem.  Eustace can make his ship undetectable. It is invisible, the sounds of his crew do not carry, and it leaves no displacement on the waves to mark its passage. Eustace can also use this power to make any group being carried in something invisible, so a wagon load of pirates, or the wearer of a shoe, are equally plausible targets. He can, however, only make himself invisible while at sea. This limit has been placed on him as a form of torture by his mistress, since it has been prophesied that he will die at sea.  (Base 5 (Debauchery/Phantasm, Realms of Power: The Infernal page 110) +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +3 Structure)  Eustace has no Might so spends a Fatigue level to activate this power. Equipment: Lightly armored if expecting battle. Uses a short sword, as it is more useful in the confined spaces aboard ship than a long sword. Appearance: An elderly pirate, once charming but now debauched and menacing.''
''Eustace is a skilled warrior, and has some magical talents granted by his Infernal masters, but is less mystically formidable than his reputation might lead characters to believe. Storyguides wishing to make him more formidable could, for example, give him Magic Resistance and increase his combat scores.''
''Roll: 12+ Result: Before joining the Church, Eustace spent some time in Italy, then in Toledo, where he developed skills useful to his current career of sin. In Northern Italy he learned the ways of Mediterranean piracy. These techniques were novel in the English Channel. He studied the black arts in Toledo.''
''Roll: 15+ Result: Returning from his studies, he took vows as a monk at the monastery of Samer, eight miles south east of the city of Boulogne. He cast spells in the kitchen of the monastery. His initial curses were experiments, which forced the monks to curse when they should pray, fast when they should eat, and go barefoot in snow. Later he took complete control of the monks, stole all of their valuables, and then gambled them away against an innkeeper. The monastery was abandoned, and is in ruins.''
''Roll: 18+ Result: Eustace was approached by representatives of the French, who bought his allegiance. King John''
''responded by torturing Eustace’s daughter, then burning her alive. Eustace fled England with his wife, and five galleys of loyal or desper''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Human Pirates==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 25 (25) Confidence Score: 2 (2) Virtues and Flaws: Outlaw Personality Traits: Pirate (Cruel) +2, Debauched +1 Combat: Axe: Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +7, Damage +8 or Axe: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +5, Damage +8 Bow: Init 0, Attack +8*, Defense +3*, Damage +8 * 	 +1 shipboard Soak: +2 (heavy clothing) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–50), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Sark 2 (places of vice), Athletics 2 (while pillaging), Awareness 2 (ships), Brawl 4 (other pirates), Carouse 2 (drunken sin), Craft or Profession 4 (varies), French 5 (pirate slang), Single Weapon 5 (axe) or Single Weapon 3 (axe) and Bow 3 (shipboard)., Swim 2 (sea) Equipment: Worn clothes, weapons, alcohol Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Eustace’s pirates are illgroomed, badly dressed, and often drunk. They live in fear of their lord and his demons, and take that out on the Sarcees.''

|}
''ate men. The vast invasion fleet, led by Eustace, failed to defeat the English defenders. It was scattered by a miraculous hurricane, produced by Saint Bartholomew. Eustace retreated to his base in Sark.''

===Infernal Lore Only:===

''Roll: 12+ Result: For a year Eustace studied in Toledo, in a great cave beneath the Earth He communed daily with Satan, learning necromancy. A subsidiary Intelligence + Infernal Lore roll of 6 or more indicates that this is a very brief period to learn the Infernal arts, but that direct tuition form a powerful demon may have granted unusual powers.''
''Roll: 15+ Result: Eustace’s future was foretold by the demon he communed with. He is blessed and cursed: he will terrify and battle kings, and can only truly die at sea.''

===If Using a Reanimated Eustace, Or a Substitute Pirate King, Only:===

''Roll: 9+* Result: When King John died, and his barons invited the Prince of France to be their king, William the Marshall took charge of John’s infant son, and guided the loyalists to a surprising series of victories. Prince Louis kept losing ground and followers. His wife, who has more spine than he does, arranged a fleet of mercenaries and siege weapons, giving them to Eustace the Monk to deliver. William the Marshall prepared to lead an inferior fleet against him, but he was persuaded to allow a younger and less essential man to take his place.''
''Roll: 12+* Result: Phillip d’Aubingy, the new English admiral, was able to defeat Eu''
''stace for a mixture of reasons. He was able to get the advantage of the wind over Eustace, and defeat him in many small engagements. He was aided by Stephen Crabbe, a diabolic rival of Eustace’s, who could see through Eustace’s illusions. Phillip used pots of ground lime to blind Eustace’s men. When he captured Eustace, Phillip was offered a ransom of 10 000 marks (3 333 pounds) but instead struck off Eustace’s head, and cut him into small pieces, dropping them every so often while he sailing to port. He sent Eustace’s pike-skewered head on a tour of the country, ending in Canterbury.''

==Human Pirates==

''Mortal criminals are one option for the basic follower in Eustace’s fleet. For a more challenging scenario, replace these pirates with the Briny Dead, described later, or resurrect them as Briny Dead if the player characters kill them. Some of the pirates who use the statistics below have made deals with demons to receive Minor Virtues. These add either +3 on one Ability provided it is used for sin, +2 Soak, or the ability to do a single minor, Infernal working. This is usually a spell-like effect of level 15 or less, and costs a level of Fatigue to activate. These workings cannot be used for virtuous purposes.''

==Stephen Crabbe==

''Crabbe is an associate, some say apprentice, of Eustace. He has turned against the Monk, and uses his powers to aid Eustace’s enemies. He has many of Eustace’s abilities, and can neutralize several of the others. In one historical version of this story, Crabbe leaps aboard Eustace’s invisible flagship, appearing to float in midair. He stabs the Monk, but is torn to pieces by Eustace’s crew. Stephen is not designed as an adversary to the player characters: he is a re''
''source, if a corrupt one. To flesh him out further, or use him as a later antagonist, assume Stephen is sponsored by a powerful demon that seeks to spread greed through the wealth that trade brings. If he is attacked and needs demonic aides, use the statistics for the mockery demons, given below, but describe them as nimble, toadlike demons dressed in rich fabrics, and don’t use the layered combat trick of resurrecting the bodies, then coalescing new forms.''

==Demons==

''The demons that appear over the next few pages can be found in many of the sites which the characters visit during the story, and so are described here. Other demons, specific to sites, are detailed in the descriptions of those locations.''

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''This scenario is, structurally, an excuse for a set-piece naval battle followed by a siege. These provide combat-orientated characters with environments filled with morally-uncomplicated targets on which to use their most devastating spells. Once the necessity of battle is clear to the player characters, the story revolves around the strategies they use to reduce Eustace’s capacity to resist destruction at their hands. The suggested course of events, after the hook, is that the player characters visit sites important in Eustace’s life to gain more information and Arcane Connections. Each investigation includes the possibility of combat, but the foes are weaker than in the two large battles. This allows characters strongest in spells that gather information to contribute by facing these obstacles on behalf of the covenant.''

==Tales of Power Possible Hooks==

''The characters need a reason to meet Eustace in battle, and this should vary to suit each saga. Some suggestions follow.''
''Aiding a Slighted King''
''The Order doesn’t take sides in the mundane wars, but Eustace does. He is known to be a magician, and auctions his services in the most public way. He terrifies rulers, extorts noblemen, and''
''pillages commoners. Eustace is such a villain that even other Satanists hate him. It’s clearly to the Order’s benefit for him to be removed. Eustace again auctions his services. The losing side (as suits your saga) instead sends messages to the covenant, pointing out that they know that magi exist, that Eustace is clearly their problem, and that the Code doesn’t protect him. An element of threat is added: if Eustace is not bought under control, then clearly the Crown needs to take some action to prevent''
''similar problems. The characters have a choice: accept an exorbitant fee and strike Eustace down, or face a kingdom-wide census of magi, to determine their powers and capacity to pay tax. This hook allows a diplomatic scene, to include player characters not skilled in combat in the story. An excellent diplomat can frame the entire event by setting the stakes. Rewards and possible consequences for failure are negotiated by this character in advance.''

==Briny Dead: Pirate Corpses Reanimated by Reveners==

''Order: Vessel of Iniquity Infernal Might: 20 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +3, Com 0, Str +2, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (3) Personality Traits: Hateful +6, Depraved +6 Reputations: Hunters of the Living 3 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Combat:  The attacks of reveners are considered supernatural, and are opposed by Magic Resistance. Axe: Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +7, Damage +8 or Axe: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +5, Damage +8 Bow: Init 0, Attack +8*, Defense +3*, Damage +8 * +1 shipboard Soak: +5: Leathery skin and thick clothes Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–50), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Depend on reanimated person. If they reanimate the pirates, Single Weapon 5 (axe) or Single Weapon 3 (axe) and Bow 3 (shipboard) Powers: Contagious Obsession: 1 point per victim, Init 0, Mentem: Reveners have this power, but prefer not to use it, using their horrible host bodies instead. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem:''
''Form of Wickedness, 2 points, Init –1, Mentem: Reveners rarely use this power, but might trigger it if all of their physical forms are destroyed, to provide confusion in which to escape powerful adversaries. This form radiates the sin the demon represents, which in this case is fear (which is sinful, because it denies the protective role of God). The characters flee in terror until they faint from exhaustion. Every hour the character may make a Stamina roll of 6+ to break the hold of the power, but unconsciousness also breaks it, and characters fleeing at speed are likely to collapse before the first hour is up. A botch on this roll causes temporary insanity, a Minor Personality Flaw suited to the situation in which the demon was encountered. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Fearful The Dead That Walk Again, 3 points, Init –4, Corpus: Allows the revener to posses many corpses simultaneously, at the cost of 3 Might per body. The bodies cannot have had a proper burial. The attacks of animated bodies are supernatural and are opposed by Magic Resistance.  All of the bodies controlled by a single revener work in perfect concert in combat. If using the group combat rules the Attack and Defense bonus provided by additional mem''
''bers of the group is not limited by the revener’s Leadership score. This means that a revener controlling 6 corpses has the following group combat statistics  Axe specialists: Init +2, Attack +72, Defense +42, Damage +8  Axe and bow armed  Axe: Init +2, Attack +60, Defense +30, Damage +8  Bow : Init 0, Attack +48*, Defense +18*, Damage +8 * +6 shipboard  Powerful demons can command reveners in group combat, but since they lack the revener ability to perfectly co-ordinate many bodies, there’s usually no benefit to this. Weakness: Abhorrent material (garlic): These demons must flee the presence of garlic, or spend a Confidence point every two minutes. They cannot regenerate spent Might while garlic is present. Vis: None Appearance: Pirate corpses pickled in brine, dressed in rags and carrying corroded weapons.''
''Reveners are demons that reanimate the dead, for example the pirates described earlier. They usually work in groups of three or more. Reveners lack the power to take physical shape, instead spreading horror by making the dead rise and attack the living.''
''In Response To A Raid''
''Eustace needs supplies to keep his fleet seaworthy and he gains these, in part, by raiding shipping and port facilities. Many covenants have excellent port facilities or links to merchant houses. Eustace is proud, and chronically underestimates his opponents, so the excellent timber, spars, cordage, and provisions stored in the covenant’s warehouses are not safe from him. This hook begins the story with a raid, in which lesser characters, like grogs and companions, defend against a ship of Eustace’s men, perhaps aided by a demon. The hook works best if Eustace’s forces do serious damage or, when driven off, promise to return with greater force.''
''In Response To Piracy''
''In this hook, Eustace’s forces capture a ship allied with the player characters. This is similar to the previous hook, but involves a different mix of characters. One interesting framing device is for the storyguide to inform the players that word has reached the characters of the loss of this ship. The storyguide then gives the players pregenerated characters, telling them they shouldn’t get too attached to them. The battle is played as a flashback, narrated by a witness who is not initially identified. The better the temporary characters do, the more information they can pass to the usual player characters. This is a survival story. These disposable player characters almost certainly won’t defeat Eustace, and only one of them needs to survive. The first scene’s function is to pre-warn the characters''
''about Eustace’s powers and resources, and provide a horrific warning of what happens to their regular characters if they fail to prepare. If the characters have strong divinatory magic, that can read the history of objects or speak with ghosts, then none of the temporary characters need to survive to keep this framing element complete. If the temporary characters do kill Eustace, say that the battle occurred two years ago, and then segue into a version of the story with an alternate but similar pirate lord. Options for alternatives are given in the Changing the Story section, earlier.''
''Revenge For a Slain Redcap''
''This is a much-used hook, but an easy one to fit into most sagas. Eustace captured, tortured, and killed a Redcap.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Shantymen==

''Order: Tempters Infernal Might: 20 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +3, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5 Combat: Birch rod (club): Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +19, Damage +6 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious* *Never suffers fatigue while chanting Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (muscular labor), Awareness 3 (shirkers), Craft (shipboard work) 5 (new fashions), French 5 (pirates), Folk Ken 5 (pirates), Guile 5 (shirkers), Infernal Lore 2 (piracy), Music 7 (song), Single weapons 6 (birch rod).''
''Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Laziness. Endless Droning, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: So long as the demon is singing, it cannot lose Fatigue. Black Shanties: 6 points, Init –11, Corpus: The demon’s song grants a minor False Blessing to anyone who joins the song. Each demon knows several songs, but can only use one, and offer one Blessing, at time. Using Infernal blessings, even for good purposes, is still a sin, so characters joining the song while fighting pirates, or to attack the shantyman itself, are still morally culpable. Simple blessings include a +2 bonus on Soak, the Longwinded Virtue, +3 on a particular Ability, or the ability to create a single minor spell. A popular spell causes a gust of wind that knocks an enemy down, and, with luck, overboard.''
''The shantyman can always continue leading his songs while engaged in combat, but other characters must make Intelligence + Concentration rolls against an Ease Factor of 6 to sing in a round in which they are fighting. Equipment: Weathered clothes, birch rod. Weakness: Protected group (those singing his song) Vis: 4 pawn Imaginem vis sordia in loathsome, huge tongue Appearance: A tall, gaunt man, flecked in salt and bird dung, dressed in ragged sailor’s clothes, with a lower jaw that gapes open in a long oval, to his solar plexus. He carries a birch rod which he uses as a whip.''
''Shantymen are demons whose songs provide nearby humans with False Powers. Each shantyman knows several songs, but can sing only one at a time. Eustace has one of these creatures on each of his ships.''

|}
''This obliges all Hermetic magi to plot revenge against him. Other covenants, worried that Eustace has deliberately sought information about their placement and power, offer resources to the player characters when they strike at him.''
''Striking Back at Eustace’s Sponsor''
''Eustace is supported by a powerful demon. If the characters have previously feuded with this creature, then destroy''
''ing one of his most powerful minions is a great victory. The characters may become aware of the connection between their foe and Eustace as a reward for completing a previous story, through the intercession of Saint Bartholomew,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sheeteaters==

''Order: Evil spirits Infernal Might: 5 (Animal) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +3, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: –2 Confidence Score: 1 (1) Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Qualities: Accomplished Flyer, Aquatic (can breathe water), Slippery (+6 against Grapple attacks) Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Contemptuous of humans +4. Combat: Bite: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +2, Damage +2 Soak: +4, bony plates under scales Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –3, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Inc (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Area Lore: Sark 3 (ocean), Athletics 5 (flying), Awareness 2 (food), Brawl 6 (dodging), Infernal Lore 2 (undersea secrets), Survival 3 (ocean), Swim 5 (home terrain) Powers:''
''Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Eat sheets: 0 points, Init +0: Any rope that the sheeteater touches with its teeth snaps. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Flight: 0 points, Init +1, Animal: This demonic fish can fly freely. It flaps its wings, but this is not required for it to fly. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Contempt. Sheeteater’s Smile: 1 point, Init +0, Mentem: If a human sees a sheeteater perform an act of vandalism, the sheeteater may use its highly expressive features to mock him with a contemptuous grin. When this occurs the human is flooded with rage, and must make an appropriate Personality trait roll of 9 or more, or be compelled to attack the sheeteater. The sheeteater flees, but not so far nor so fast that the human has no chance to catch it. While chasing the sheeteater, the human cannot mend or mitigate the damage that the sheeteater''
''caused. The power fails when the sheeteater clearly cannot be caught, when someone else mitigates the damage it has caused, when it uses this power on someone else, or after an hour. Weakness: Cannot leave the sea, or the sky directly above the sea. The sheeteater can attack boats, but it can’t go inland. Sheeteaters forced inland suffer a Light Wound every round. Vis: 1 pawn Perdo vis sordia in body. Appearance: Smug-looking black fish, with elegant wings and highly expressive faces.''
''Sheeteaters are demonic flying fish. Their name comes from their habit of sabotaging vessels by biting through “sheets” or ropes. The destruction of sheets can cause sails to fly lose, so that speed is lost. In ships moving at speed, biting through the stays can cause masts to topple over. Eustace can use his sheeteaters in naval battles, but they are unable to venture inland.''

|}

==Mockery Demons==

''Order: Evil spirits Infernal Might: 25 (Animal) Characteristics:  Ape form:  Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2  Undead ape form:  Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +1  Mockery form:  Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +3 Size:  Ape forms +1  Mockery form –2. Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Personality Traits: Debauchery +3 Reputations: Useful servants 1 (Infernal) Combat: Ape Form  Brawl: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +13, Damage +3  Axe: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +9  Thrown: Init +2, Attack +10*, Defense +5, Damage +5* Dead Ape Form  Brawl: Init +1, Attack +9, Defense +10, Damage +2  Axe: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +8  Thrown: Init +1, Attack +13*, Defense +6, Damage +4* Mockery Form  Claws: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +13, Damage +2  Axe: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +10, Damage +6  Thrown: Init +3, Attack +10*, Defense +6, Damage +2* *	  Assumes that the thrown item is a rock. If it’s a knife, the Damage is +3 higher. If it’s a degrading thing, the Attack is +1 higher, but the damage is likely +0. Soak: Ape forms +3 Mockery form +6 Fatigue Levels:  Ape form and Mockery form: OK, 0, –1,''
''–3, –5, Unconscious  Dead ape form: Tireless.''
''Wound Penalties: Ape form: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13– 19), Incapacitated (20–26), Dead (27+) Mockery form: –1 (1–3), –2 (4–6), –3 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12), Dead (13+) Abilities: Ape Form: Area Lore: Sark 2 (La Moinerie), Athletics 4 (climbing), Animal Handling 3 (apes), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 7 (fists), Hunt 2 (things apes eat), Infernal Lore 4 (demon worshippers), Single Weapon 3 (axe), Survival 5 (ape), Thrown Weapon 7 (degrading things). Mockery Form: Area Lore: Sark 2 (La Moinerie), Athletics 4 (climbing), Animal Handling 3 (apes), Awareness 3 (predators), Brawl 3 (claws), Hunt 2 (things apes eat), Infernal Lore 4 (demon worshippers), Single Weapon 3 (axe), Survival 5 (ape), Thrown Weapon 2 (degrading things).''
''Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: Debauched Possession; variable points, Init –2, Mentem: Allows the demon to take control of human, and in this case, animal hosts. The rules for this are complex and can be found on pages 32 and 33 of Realms of Power: The Infernal, but for the purposes of this scenario, the demons each entirely possess a single ape, and control that ape absolutely, having worn down their Personality traits with the Obsession power. A demon that gives an ape a command which the ape feels is likely to cause it to die must spend Might to force its host''
''to follow the instruction. This is an opposed roll of stress die + Might spent against its Personality trait roll of stress + 3. If characters use magic to give the Ape other powerful traits, these may also be used to oppose the demon’s control. Walking Dead, 3 points, Init –4, Corpus or Animal. The mockery may animate any corpse not given proper burial. It can animate ape corpses since they are so perfect for mocking humans, provided they have not been dismembered. The physical attacks of the animated body reflect those of the body in life. They are blocked by Magic Resistance. Equipment: Filthy clothes, rusty weapons, alcohol. Weakness: Things representing cleanliness, like pure running water, soap, and powdered lime. Sea water is not considered pure for this weakness. While they are in possessed bodies, the mockery demons are resistant to gentle cleaners like water and soap. They are still affected by lime, lye, or other caustic substances. Vis: 5 pawns Corpus in lips, vis sordida. Appearance: Large, ill African apes, clad in soiled clothing. The mockeries, if in their demonic shape, are twisted little humans that look like caricatures of whomever they are combating.''
''Eustace keeps seven great African apes which have been possessed by demons. The spirits do this in mockery of the pirates. In their bestial forms they drink, brawl and otherwise act like pirates, in an exaggerated, comedic and belittling way. If their ape hosts are killed, these demons have the ability to animate the corpses, or to create new forms. This natural form looks like a twisted little human, vaguely similar to whomever they are fighting.''
''or because the agents of Hell have fallen out with each other. Stephen Crabbe, Eustace’s rival in the service of Hell, is described earlier, and he may advertise the connection between the demon and the pirate, for his own purposes.''
''The Winchelsea House, London Palace, or Monastery of Samer.''
''Characters may stumble into this story by visiting one of these sites first. Once they have cleansed that site and gained resources that make Eustace vulnerable, they may begin plotting his destruction.''
''When You Have a Hammer, Everything Looks Like A Nail''
''Some violent magi like smashing things, and Eustace is outside Hermetic, mundane, and Divine law. That might be enough.''

==Preparations For Confronting Eustace the Monk==

''Two strategies the players may consider are naval battle and raiding Eustace’s base. Storyguides can easily engineer Eustace’s escape from the naval''
''battle if they wish to ensure he leads his defenders in the final battle. As an alternative, the player characters may kill Eustace in the naval battle. If they do not then flush the pirates from Sark, a new leader eventually takes his place, and the problems which led to their initial involvement resume. If the characters slay Eustace and then sail directly for Sark, either an apprentice of Eustace’s survived, and co-ordinates the defenders, or Argenta, a demon described later, takes personal control of the pirates Characters planning to attack Eustace have the advantage that they can choose the time of their assault, and so can make preparations which reduce the Monk’s capacity to resist.''

==Succubae and Incubi==

''These relatively weak demons, and the sheeteaters described earlier, are the only flying demons that Eustace commands. Wise player characters may exploit this vulnerability. Order: Tempter Infernal Might: 5 (Corpus). Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +3, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Enduring Constitution, Offensive to Animals*, Weak-willed * or some other Minor Flaw. Personality Traits: Selfish +6, Lustful +5, Deceitful +4 Combat: Axe: Init +1, Attack +11, Defense +6, Damage +9 or Knife: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +3 Soak: +1 Clothes Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–50), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 5 (knife), Charm 3 (sexual partners), Folk Ken 3 (pirates), Intrigue 3 (pirates), Profession: varies, but in this case pirate and sex worker''
''are common 3, Single Weapon 5 (axe) Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus,:This form may be male or female, and of any race or age, but these forms bear a familial similarity. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Harness the Wind, 1 point, Init 0, Corpus: This power allows the demon to fly swiftly from one place to another, and lasts until the journey ends or dawn. Most demons do not fly this way, instead dematerializing and creating a fresh body at their destination. Succubae and incubi travel using this Power instead if they have semen they do not wish to lose, but may dematerialize and coagulate if they prefer. Hag Ride: 1 point, Init 0, Corpus: The demon may “ride” a victim for an evening. This power causes the victim to lie, conscious but paralyzed, while the demon rapes them. Being ridden costs a long term Fatigue level and prevents the recovery of any Fatigue during the night. A victim ridden on consecutive evenings loses another level each night. The victim regains the power to move at dawn.''
''Mutable gender; 0 point, Init +0, Corpus: The demon can switch gender at will. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Lustful or Rapacious, varying by demon. Weakness: Abhorrent material (daylight). Storyguides wanting these demons to provide Eustace with some weak air cover during the final battle may prefer to swap this for something else, for example Protected Group (chaste people). Vis: 1 pawn Corpus vis sordida in the private organs. Appearance: Beautiful women in skirts and bodices, or men with rippling muscles, long hair, and shirts open to the waist''
''These are sexual demons; wherever you have pirates, you’ll have a few of these around also. Succubae and Incubi are the same type of demon. Each is able to switch genders to harvest the semen of wicked men, and then plant it in the bodies of evil women. And example is given here, but the Characteristics, Virtues, Flaws and Abilities of these creatures are variable.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Helen Le Moine: Infernal Ghost==

''Order: Master of Tempters Infernal Might: 25 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +2, Str +1*, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik 0 * 	 Can’t take physical form, and cannot manipulate objects Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5 Reputations: Mistress of Winchelsea Pirates 3 (Infernal) Combat: Cannot take physical form Soak: +1 Abilities: Area Lore: London 5 (Infernal sites), Awareness 3 (threats), Bargains 3 (merchants), Charm 5 (infernalists), Folk Ken 3 (pirates), French 5 (pirates), In''
''fernal Lore 4 (pirates), Intrigue 6 (infernalists), Leadership 4 (pirates), Organization Lore: Pirate Fleet 6 (logistics). Powers: Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Elemental Control of Flame, variable points, Init +1, Ignem: May create any Creo, Muto or Rego Ignem effect at the cost of one Might point per magnitude of effect. Helen cannot create effects greater than level 25, and cannot create ritual effects. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Selfish. Weakness: Protected group: just lawgivers Appearance: A young woman constructed of luminous lines in orange and amber.''

|}
''Accounts of Earlier Use of Powers''
''Eustace has been famously active in several places. Characters may travel to these seeking Arcane Connections or further information about Eustace’s powers. The key places they can reconnoiter are his house in Winchelsea, his palace in London, and the ruined monastery at Samer in France. Each of these sites has a demonic guardian. The options here are tied to the places where Eustace has been active, but a storyguide who feels one of these scenarios suits his troupe better than the others can switch the defenders and rewards.''
''Winchelsea''
''Eustace’s palace in Winchelsea is the least disturbed of his lairs, excepting Sark. He was driven from it by King John’s men, but his servants and allies survived his expulsion, and flourish. The noble family gifted his property by the king were pruned down by assassination until a diabolist was the rightful heir. Eustace’s allies continue to worship the Infernal powers in the house’s cellars. Player characters dispersing these diabolists might confront one with powers similar to Eustace. They might fight Briny Dead, encounter mockery demons, or find a hymnal to Argenta, Eustace’s sponsor. This allows the characters to research the weaknesses of Eustace’s demonic pirates before the larger battles. The diabolists who aid Eustace are led by his daughter, Helen. She died under the hand of King John and was returned to the world as an infernal ghost, with fire-related powers. Her knowledge of the logistical side of her father’s operation is unparalleled, and her Magic Resistance is relatively poor. The skills required to trap and interrogate her are unusual, but Stephen Crabbe can do it, if her defenders are defeated. Crabbe is active among the Infernalists of Winchelsea, and may contact the characters if an''
''alliance seems profitable. Rego Mentem or Rego Vim spells can also compel her to give information.''
''London Palace''
''The London palace was built before Eustace became a pirate. Its foundations were dedicated to Fruitio, The Whisperer of Names, an earlier demonic patron whom Eustace forsook for Argenta. This creature still manifests at the palace, but has no love for the Monk, and might steer characters toward his weaknesses in exchange for a favors.''
''Player characters active in London need to be careful. Magic is weaker in large cities because of the Dominion. Battles with demons in the streets of London draw the attention of the Quaesitores. Conflict, if any, needs to be contained within the palace, or witnesses need to be dealt with in some way. The demons similarly prefer to limit any conflict to the palace: the Dominion of London restricts their powers, but does not limit them within the palace’s Infernal aura. The nobleman to whom this palace was given is a servant of Fruitio. He has a great deal of mundane influence, and attacking him directly without''
''breaching the Code is difficult. The two have a binding agreement that Fruitio will not approach the rest of the nobleman’s family, but the demon has found a way around this. It has called up a demonic ally named Ossa, a spirit of vanity, and that demon has used its powers to make most of the family, and their servants, perfectly biddable if not yet truly corrupt. Characters who uncover the secrets of the London palace might gain the assistance of the demons here, since they are opposed to Eustace’s sponsor. The demons can predict the future, in a limited way, and so they know the characters are coming. They send''

==Fruitio: The Whisperer of Names==

''Order: A Master of the Spirits of Deceit Infernal Might: 25 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +4, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +4 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 5 (5) Personality Traits: Deceitful +6, Smug +3, Trustworthy –5 Hierarchy: 6 Reputations: Awarder of mortal offices 2 (Infernal) Combat: Longsword: Init +6, Attack +14, Defense +13, Damage +8 Soak: +7, raiment of golden plates Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–50), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Many Abilities, with Lores supplemented by its Serpent’s Oracle power. Its Single Weapon skill is 7 (longsword). Powers: Bearer of Bad News, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem: If the demon tells a person a true, but negative, fact, he can use this power to make the mortal feel that a decision has been made to victimize him. This causes the victim to loathe the person responsible for the''
''decision. The victim takes a petty revenge on the authority figure at the first opportunity. This loathing can be overcome with any Personality Trait roll of 9 or more, or by waiting for Sunday, which dispels the power. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus or Animal. This demon can take any natural form. Its human forms cannot replicate particular individuals. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Unrewarded. Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init +1, Mentem: The victim loses all judgment and believes a specific lie so long as proof to its contrary is not presented. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is allowed to resist. This roll is adjusted by up to 3 points if the demon has set up circumstances to make its lie appear plausible. This creature often uses this power to suggest its protégés be granted offices, or that its victims will not be caught in their treasons. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem. The target believes a single lie told to him by the demon until he repeats it to someone else. At that point he realizes that the lie''
''is false. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 also reveals the lie, with the first roll made an hour after the lie is told, then subsequent rolls every hour. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim: The demon can duplicate any Intellego spell for the cost of 2 Might points. Using this power, and the ability to extrapolate the effects of current actions, it can seem to predict the future. Equipment: Longsword that transforms into scepter. Clothes that transform into robes with golden plates sewn into them. Weakness: Protected group (humble people) Vis: 5 pawns of Rego vis sordida in scepter Appearance: A handsome demon, dressed as a courtier. In his natural form he has colorful feathers instead of hair and a parrot’s beak instead of his mouth and nose.''
''This demon takes a favored mortal and raises him to power. It aids others in treason then deserts them, so that their offices lie vacant for its protégé. It then suggests its worshipper for the vacant office, using its Trust of the Innocent power.''

==Ossa The Adulatrix==

''Order: Spirit of Deceit (Woman of Good Intent) Infernal Might: 5 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +3, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Fashionable +4, Contemptuous of humans +3 Combat: Avoids combat, playing the victim and getting others slaughtered in her defense. Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –2 (6–10), –3 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: London 3 (stores), Artes Liberales 2 (oversimplifications), Athletics 3 (with children), Awareness 3 (clothes), Bargain 5 (shoes), Charm 5 (children), Craft (seamstress) 7 (new fashions), English 5 (peasants), Etiquette 3 (nobles), French 5 (nobles), Folk Ken 5 (London), Guile 7 (nobles), Intrigue 6 (servants), Infernal Lore 2 (vanities), Music 3 (harp), Teaching 5 (children), Theology 2 (heresies).''
''Powers: Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus or Animal. This demon can take the form of a fly, to follow its charges. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Vain. Trust of the Innocent, 1 point, Init +1, Mentem: The victim loses all judgment and believes a specific lie so long as proof to its contrary is not presented. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is allowed to resist. This roll is adjusted by up to 3 points if the demon has set up circumstances to make its lie appear plausible. This creature uses this power to create spiteful feuds, or just to tell people how wonderful they are. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem. The target believes a single lie told to him by the demon until he repeats it to someone else. At that point he realizes that the lie is false. An Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 also reveals the lie, with the first roll made an hour after the lie is told, then subsequent rolls every hour. This creature seldom uses''
''this power, as it stays permanently with its victim family. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim: The demon can duplicate any Intellego spell for the cost of 2 Might points. Using this power, and the ability to extrapolate the effects of current actions, it can seem to predict the future. Its knowledge of court fashion is impeccable. Equipment: A lovely dress, long hatpins, elegant shoes. Weakness: Protected group (vain people) Vis: 1 pawn Imaginem vis sordia in shoes. Appearance: Ossa is an elegant governess and companion who accompanies the family, and indeed is believed to be a poor cousin of the mother. She is morally upright, and perfectly dedicated, with the exception of her extravagant taste for fashion.''
''This demon is a professional sycophant. She has been recruited to corrupt this family by Fruitio, mostly because the nobleman, who heads the family, was so careful to protect them in his agreement with the senior demon.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Abandoned By Its Saint==

''Saint Magloire was granted the right to proselytize these islands in 565 after healing a nobleman with a claim to the island. Stories vary: he either brought disciples with him and founded a monastery, or came as a hermit but was rapidly surrounded by followers seeking healing and spiritual guidance. He founded a monastery and his followers cultivated the surrounding land. In 850, a Breton nobleman offered land to a group of monks on the condition that they brought the relics of a worthy saint to his domain. These''
''monks decided to retrieve the relics of Saint Magloire. The people of Sark attempted to prevent their removal, but the saint aided the Breton monks with various miracles, thereby demonstrating his strong desire to leave Sark. Saint Magloire is still venerated on Sark, and considered its special protector. But even before Eustace arrived, the island was considered a haven for pirates, robbers, murderers and cannibals, so there are few who pray to him. Particularly pious characters may find this saint willing to answer their prayers for the liberation of Sark.''

==Corrupted Vermin==

''The Corrupted Vermin of Samer are small animals that have been polluted by the aura of the place. Corrupted animals have:''
''• Infernal Might of 5 • Presence of –6 • A single sinful Personality Trait of +6 • The Tainted with Evil Flaw. • They gain any one Major Virtue.''
''The monks call the vermin to aid them when they expect battle. The vermin usually attack in swarms.''

==The Demonic Monks of Samer==

''Order: Tempters, Masters of Corrupted Vermin Infernal Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +2, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Weak-willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5 Combat: Bite: Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +5* 2 huge claws: Init +1, Attack +14, Defense +14, Damage +6*  These creatures release a venomous filth into wounds that necrotizes flesh. Any injury from one of these claws requires a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6, or death results in (1+simple die) rounds. This filth may be drawn out and destroyed with incense, in which case it causes no damage, but costs a Fatigue level. The venom of the demons is not re''
''sisted by Parma Magica. Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –2 (6–10), –3 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Many, including Brawl 7 (claws) Powers: Chant of the False Monks: 2 points, Init –2, Mentem. The chant of the false monks creates a powerful dread in a character, forcing him to make a Personality trait roll of 6 or higher before he can enter a church. If the roll succeeds, the curse is broken. If it fails, the character will not attempt to enter a church again for at least a week, and must again make the roll to enter the church. The chant affects everyone who can hear the chant if it is used by a group of monks simultaneously, but individual monks can only affect a single victim per use of the power. The group variant of the''
''song can cause Warping, and is used to make new Corrupted Vermin. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Disparaging Equipment: Monastic cowl Weakness: Abhorrent material (incense) Vis: 1 pawn each of Rego and Animal vis sordida in cowl Appearance: Superficially like blackrobed monks, these demons are skeletal, and have the skulls of dogs for heads. Their hands are great scythelike claws, usually hidden up the sleeves of their robes.''
''These demons take their shape to mock the piety of the original inhabitants of the monastery. They dwell in the parts of the building which have Infernal auras, and commit atrocities to spread the taint. The shadowy cowls the demons wear allows them to pass, in limited circumstances, for true monks.''

==Elemental Spirit of the Channel==

''Magic Might: 35 (Aquam) Season: Summer Characteristics: Cun +2, Per +2, Pre –7, Com –9, Str +9, Sta +7, Dex +1, Qik 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Thing; Ways of the Waters; Poor Memory, Short Attention Span, Simple Minded; and many others. Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power (Crafter of Aquam), Greater Power (Drown), Split Attacks**, 14 x Improved Attack, 14 x Improved Damage, No Fatigue; Temporary Magical Might*; and many others. * Wounds decrease the Might pool of the elemental by separating part of its material form. Each wound reduces the Might pool by the Wound penalty. If the creature manages to reconnect its parts, it regains that Might. Sections chipped off like this contain vis, in proportion, which''
''may be used before the creature is defeated. **	 See note after Combat Combat: Bludgeon*: Init+5, Attack +32, Defense +5, Damage +52** * Includes Ways of the Waters (+3)  Each round the elemental can split this attack into as many attacks as it chooses, retaining the same Init and Defense for each smaller psedupod, but dividing the Attack and Damage pools as it wishes. Decide the division before the Attack roll is made. **	 Water elementals can only cause Scuffle damage (see ArM5, page 175) Soak: +12 Wound Penalties: –1 & 1 Might point (1–5), –3 and 3 Might points (6–10), –5 and 5 Might points (11–15), Incapacitated & 5 Might points (16–20), Dead & all Might points (21+)''
''Immune to blades and piercing weapons; sources of fire that do less than +35 damage are harmlessly extinguished. Abilities: Awareness 5 (surface), Brawl 7 (pseudopods), Swim 7 (ocean) Powers: Crafter of Water, 1–3 points, Init 4 – Might cost, Aquam. Duplicates any Creo Aquam or Rego Aquam spell of level 35 or below at the cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of the spell. Drown, 0 points, Init –2, Aquam. After a successful melee attack the elemental can engulf a target smaller than Size 12, necessitating a deprivation roll (ArM5, pages 180-181). Each victim may attempt to escape each round by Grappling (ArM5, page 171). Vis: 7 pawns Aquam, body Appearance: A stormy stretch of belligerent sea.''

|}

==The Red Maid of Sark==

''Faerie Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0*, Sta 0*, Dex 0*, Qik 0*. * These statistics are provided by the Red Maid’s host. Size: (as host) Virtues and Flaws: Final Girl, Focus Faerie Powers (Possession, see later); 2 x Increased Might, Loosely Material*; Incognizant. * Modified to a Minor Virtue: may only take forms using possession power. Personality Traits: Sadistic +3, Steadfast +3. Combat: Domestic implement (as knife): Init +0, Attack +9*, Defense +7, Damage +3*  These scores do not include the physical Characteristics of the host. * Once stained with someone else’s blood, the Red Maid’s Attack and Damage increase. See the Final Girl Virtue. Soak: 0* * Once bloodstained, this increases. See Final Girl Virtue. Wound Penalties: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Pretenses: Brawl 5 (prey), but may use the Pretenses or abilities of the host. Powers: Possession, 1 or more points, Init +2, Mentem: If this power Penetrates, the victim is possessed by the Red Maid and is under her direct control. Any attempt to force the victim to act contrary to her nature, or to use any of the host’s own magical powers requires that the Red Maid spends Might. A supernatural power (including spell-casting) requires 1 Might point per magnitude to produce. A questionable action that is contrary to the nature of the host requires the Red Maid to exceed the possessed being’s Personality Trait roll on a stress die + Might points spent. The storyguide may give a modifier to the Personality Trait roll based on the nature of the command (see the Entrancement power,''
''ArM5, page 65, for suggestions). Both Might costs must be met if the use of a supernatural power is also contrary to the victim’s nature. If the Red Maid is in direct control of her host’s actions, the host acquires her Magic Resistance, but is also affected by wards that would normally exclude her. If the host is acting under her own free will, then she does not benefit from the Red Maid’s Magic Resistance, but may also walk through wards with impunity.  This power’s costs are not based on the Hermetic system of magic: it is based on material in Realms of Power: Magic. Equipment: Someone else’s body, all of their material goods. Vis: 3 Mentem, in the blood of the possessed victim. Appearance: The Red Maid does not have a material body, but if seen with Faerie Sight, or Second Sight outside a body, she seems to have a catching claws and soulful eyes.''
''The most powerful faerie on the island is the Red Maid. The Red Maid is a possessing spirit. She enters a young woman’s body after she has been abused by a pirate, and lends the girl Faerie powers. These allow the girl to murder the pirate and dispose of his body without getting caught. Argenta, the most powerful demon on the island, knows that something occasionally kills one of her men, because their souls arrive in Hell. She cares so little for her pirates that admitting to her pawns that she does not know what is causing the deaths is worse than letting some die, so she does not investigate the Maid’s murders. Magi skilled in finding faeries may recruit the maid as an ally. The Red Maid’s knowledge of Eustace’s forces and local terrain are valuable while planning their raid. Her ability to sabotage a key defensive site (selected by the player characters) as the magi attack increases the raid’s likelihood of success. The Maid is a revenge faerie, so she''
''needs to seek out conflict to feed. Once the story on Sark concludes, she may hitch a ride in the body of one of the grogs or companions so that she can be near the magi, whom she senses are beacons for trouble. A girl who has acted as the host for the Red Maid, and survived, often retains a sliver of he Maid’s glamour after the story concludes. This allows the maid to continue feeding from the vitality of her host’s life, should it become dramatic. This sliver of glamour provides often provides a Virtue. Characters who survive as the host of the Red Maid provide grogs or companions with an unusual background.''
''Note: The Red Maid is not suited for use as a player character. The Final Girl Virtue is not intended for use by player characters.''
''Final Girl Virtue''
''The Final Girl Virtue allows the Maid to select up to six people, to whom her host has an emotional connection, and mark them with her glamour. These people are termed “victims.” When a victim dies or suffers terribly at the hands of the Maid’s target group (her “prey”), this provides a store of energy which the Maid may use until the current story ends. For every victim who has been harmed by her prey, the Maid gains +1 to her Attack, Damage and Soak if her host is smeared with fresh blood from one of her prey. Some magi who have encountered the Maid claim she becomes better at combat only slowly (+1 for the blood of each of her prey injured), while others say that a single drop of blood transforms her into a terrible foe. This may indicate that several Red Maids exist. This Virtue allows multiple combat bonuses, but only if the character with the Virtue does not prevent the abuse or death of her dependants. As such, it does not suit player characters.''
''a servant to attempt to parley, and to offer assistance like the location of Stephen Crabbe, the whereabouts of the sect in Winchelsea, and the state of Eustace’s preparation. The demons are, however, corrupt beings, and expect assistance to further taint the family they are corrupting in exchange for their aid. The London demons may, if the player characters seem willing to sin, pass them to a more powerful demon. If the player characters perform a terrible sin for Rahab, the Prince of the Primordial Sea, he promises to reveal the True Name of Eustace’s sponsor. The sin can be anything that’s personal for the player characters. If the storyguide cannot think of something better, then Rahab requests that the characters smash down a section of the defending cliffs of Sark, so that the demon can flood the island and kill all of the people there. Cunning characters might trick the demon out of its information, but if they do so, it becomes a recur''
''ring enemy. Rahab is not intended as a combatant in this scenario, so his statistics are not given here. They are found on pages 74 and 75 of Realms of Power: The Infernal. If the characters confront the demons, Fruitio and Ossa do not allow themselves to be destroyed. The demons frame the battle so that the characters accidentally kill many of the members of the family the demons are corrupting, and their servants. Fruitio then takes pains to appear to be vanquished, even calling in other spirits to provide illusions. Fruitio and Ossa simply take spiritual form and hide in cavities about the palace. These boltholes are inaccessible without magic or crews of demolitionists. While waiting for the player characters to go away, the demons recover their Might swiftly, due to the palace’s Infernal aura. Victorious characters find a forged set of Eustace’s diaries in the library''
''of the house. These give a method of contacting Stephen Crabbe, the location of the Infernal aura in Winchelsea on which Eustace’s house there was built, and information about the desecration of Samer. The library also contains an excellent work on Infernal Lore, which allows the characters to research the weaknesses of Eustace’s allies. At the storyguide’s discretion it may also contain the True Name of Eustace’s sponsor. A True Name acts as an Arcane Connection, granting a +5 bonus on the caster’s Penetration multiplier when attempting to bypass the specified creature’s Magic Resistance.''
''Samer''
''Despite the misbehavior of the monks, this ruined monastery has — in parts — retained its Divine aura. Actions forced on people with magic are not voluntary and so are not sins. In other areas it is crumbling away, in part because the creatures that dwell here sharpen their claws on its walls and carve great scratches in the stones. Eustace placed guardians here to kill enemies who began investigating his past, but he assumed that these would be noblemen from the court of the Count of Boulogne, and so the creatures are not formidable to experienced Hermetic magi. Characters who defeat the demons of Samer attract the thanks and attention of the local priesthood. Some senior churchmen know where the mortal monks of Samer now reside. These early victims of Eustace can describe his methods and powers, allowing the player characters to develop counter-measures. If the characters negotiate skillfully with the churchmen, they may be given assistance to determine the weaknesses of Eustace’s demons, be provided blessings which aid in their eventual battle, or even be granted the use of a relic.''
''Sark: Lay of the Land''
''In preparation for the raid on Sark, the characters may send spies to the is''
''land. This can either be roleplayed or settled with dice rolls. Sark is a small island in the English Channel, approximately 3 miles long,''
''and one and a half miles broad at its widest point. It is ringed by cliffs, between 100 and 320 feet in height. The island is divided into two uneven parts,''

==Story Seeds for Starving Sark==

''There are several different ways in which the player characters may interfere with Eustace’s operations on Sark.''
''Raiding Granary Ships''
''Sark’s swollen population is too large for local agriculture to support over the cycle of a year, so trade ships are sent to purchase supplies in Normandy and England. These ships pretend to be merchant vessels, and require maximum cargo space, so they only have light crews. Small ships may have as few as three men aboard, and larger vessels have at most eighteen. This makes them weak, militarily, and Eustace compensates for this by hiding one of his demonic servants, described earlier, on board each vessel. These demons are only supposed to become active if the ship is attacked, but Eustace’s control over his demons is far weaker than he believes, so when one of his trade ships is in port, its demon is often ashore, making mischief. If characters destroy a vessel or kill its crew, these are removed from the pool of resources from which Eustace draws for later battles.''
''Destroying Warehouses''
''Eustace’s fleet doesn’t usually buy the grain, cordage, and similar supplies it requires in the open market: it is aided by a local merchant in each port, acting as its agent. This merchant buys supplies, particularly after harvest when prices are best, and then stores them for collection by Eustace’s fleet. These stores become increasingly expensive and time-consuming to replace as winter draws near. Player characters''
''can seriously damage Eustace’s fleet by simultaneously raiding or destroying warehouses in Winchelsea (in Britain) and Saint Malo (in Brittany) just before the final shipment preceding winter.''
''Shipping Corrupted''
''or Poisoned Food''
''Eustace’s ships don’t have Magic Resistance, and so a magus with sufficient preparation can damage their cargoes after they have been inspected, but before the leave for Sark. This allows player characters to damage Eustace’s supplies without direct confrontation. This, in turn, makes it harder for Eustace and his demons to determine who was responsible, and prepare against future attacks. More daring characters might poison the food shipped to Sark. This carries some risk of killing innocent Sarcees, who also eat the food that the pirates purchase or capture. Characters can avoid this by only poisoning choice items which the leading pirates reserve for themselves, such as fine wine and exotic spices. Eustace’s forces usually have three months of provisions on the island, although this amount increases as winter draws in, since it is possible for the island to be cut off for additional time by storms. To keep the stores at this level, one small ship needs to bring in supplies every two weeks. If supplies reach the point where they can only sustain the crew for a month, a quarter of Eustace’s people desert. If his forces are living shipment to shipment, half of them desert. In either of these cases Eustace is tempted to make large raids to restock his warehouses.''
''Ambushing Raiders''
''Raiding vessels seize what Eustace’s fleet requires by force. To do this they need many armed men, and so the ships sacrifice some of their cargo space to stow extra pirates. The ships are not, however, completely filled with pirates, as they would be when raiding shipping, because the fleet needs some space to carry the fruits of its coastal pillaging. Small ships on a raid carry 12 men, and large ships 72. In the largest raiding fleets, most large ships carry up to 100 men, with one ship left with just a sailing crew of 12, to carry the loot. It’s possible for subtle characters to draw a raid. They need to manufacture a target for Eustace to dispatch men to capture. This can be as subtle as booking passage on a convoy of trade ships, to provide unexpected and perhaps inconspicuous aid, or as overt as seeding a cliff with magically-created gold, waiting for some lucky peasant to find it, and then watching for pirate raiders. Storyguides or player characters who prefer to avoid naval battle can winnow Eustace’s forces by convincing him to heavily commit to raids, then ambushing his pirates. This tactic is most effective if their ambush sites are spread widely around the English Channel and North Sea, so that Eustace’s overconfidence blinds him, initially at least, to the pattern of failure, and the possibility that the attacks are coordinated. Raiders defeated by the player characters are subtracted from the pool of resources available to Eustace in later battles.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Keeping Fleet Battles Simple==

''Fleet battles in 1220, in the Channel, are not like the battles of later centuries, where ships use their weapons to breach the hulls of their adversaries. In the historical Battle of Sandwich, the English ships were bearded (reinforced with iron sheets on their prows) so that they could ram more effectively, but there’s no other mention of weapons that targeted the hulls of the enemy ships. The English crews threw lances, stones, pots of powdered lime, and grappling hooks, and once aboard fought much as if they were on land, although there is mention of them destroying the rigging of the ships they boarded. Historically, Eustace was defeated because he was at the head of his fleet, and his ship and the English flagship sought each other out and boarded each other. This pinned him, and he was swarmed''
''by a wave of English ships, boarding him from all sides, the other French vessels choosing not to commit to battle. The tactics used for shipboard combat in 1220 are so undeveloped that people who control armies are considered suitable as admirals. If using the group combat system in ArM5 then:''
''• The briny dead animated by a single Revener act as a trained group, regardless of how many there are. This makes them dangerous in melee combat. • The Attack and Defense bonus provided by additional members of the group is not limited by the Revener’s Leadership score, since all of the limbs are controlled by a single mind.''
''If using the system given in Lords of Men, starting on page 104, then:''
''• In the Deployment Total use the pilot’s Ability in place of Area Lore, unless there is some geographical feature the players wish to use in their plans. • For Weight of Numbers, initially include all ships on both sides, but as the battle progresses, only include those ships which are actively engaged. The goal of many medieval admirals is to defeat part of the enemy fleet in isolation. • Battlefield Events happen as normal, but are described in a nautical way. Again, one of the main goals of the battlefield events the player characters push for is the separation of elements of the enemy fleet so they can be defeated in detail.''

==Leraje==

''Order: Master of Evil Sprit Infernal Might: 15 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +4, Pre +1, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +4 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Weak-Willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5 Combat: Bow: Init +2, Attack +15, Defense +14, Damage +10* * 	 Arrows cause leprosy, as per Powers. Leraje can also fire conventional arrows, to save Might. These cannot cause leprosy, but have the same combat characteristics listed earlier. Soak: +6 (leather armor) Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Various, including Bow 9 (long)''
''Powers: Cause Leprosy: 0 point, Init 0, Corpus: If one of his arrows draws blood, Leraje can use this power to possess a victim, by placing a fragment of his spiritual form into the host. This causes the host to suffer leprosy. The host must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 each week or suffer a Minor wound, and may only use their Stamina score on recovery rolls. Exorcism may cure the character, as does sufficient alms giving to grant the character the Personality trait Charitable, as this places the victim within the demons protected group.  While tormenting a victim in this way, Leraje has one fewer Might points than usual. He cannot regenerate the point which is embedded in his victim without dispelling the effect of this''
''power. This allows the human to recover normally: the wounds caused by the sickness do not vanish. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: Cruel to Animals. Weakness: Protected group (charitable people) Vis: 3 pawns Perdo vis sordida in bow Appearance: A leprous archer.''
''This is one of the earliest demonic servants that Eustace received, back during his time as a Robin Hood figure in the forests of Brittany. Leraje is a disease spirit who takes the form of a leprous archer in green, with a black feather in his cap and arrows that drip urine. He refuses to engage in hand to hand combat, preferring to discorporate and coagulate in a new sniper’s nest.''

|}
''connected by an isthmus only a few feet wide, but around 100 feet high. This isthmus, called Le Coupee, is haunted by a demonic or faerie Black Dog. The island’s edges are riddled with sea caves, some of which are large and dry enough to allow supplies, or even small groups of soldiers, to be cached. A second island, Brecqhou, is separated from Sark by a very narrow strait. The pirates do not live on this second island, although they periodically “tax” its people. This is because a powerful water spirit lives in the strait, and attacks any vessel that attempts to cross between the two when the tide is high. Sark has only 300 inhabitants, excluding Eustace’s pirates. The largest settlement is by the tiny beach of Creux. The channel to this beach is poor; it is strewn with submerged boulders. The landing is only usable at high''
''tide, save by flat-bottomed trade boats which can sit on the sands above the low tide mark. At Creux, the cliffs are over a hundred feet high, and treasure or provisions must be carried up rough steps, lifted by rope, or flown by demons to and from the beach and warehouses. Eustace’s pirate fleet harbors here, when its elements are not raiding or trading. From the top of the cliff the entirety of the small beach is visible, and passage from the beach to the interior is easily prevented. Magi who can hold this point can divide Eustace’s forces while retaining an excellent vantage for Sight ranged spells. Eustace’s headquarters is in La Moinerie, the monastery of Saint Magloire, which he has desecrated. It has an Infernal aura of 3 with a taint of debauchery. (See Realms of Power: The''
''Infernal for rules regarding taints.) In a surprise raid, a strike on La Moinerie could make Eustace’s pirates leaderless. It is also the place he is most likely to retreat to, if his fleet is destroyed.''
''Starving Sark''
''Sark provides food and water for Eustace’s men, but has too small an economy to provide the skilled artisans and products needed to maintain his pirate fleet. Characters planning to engage Eustace in naval battle can weaken his fleet by patiently sabotaging his logistic chains. The fleet is maintained in three ways. Some required equipment is simply purchased, by merchants who act as Eustace’s allies in Winchelsea. Eustace’s forces occasionally raid small harbors, taking supplies and craftsmen by force. Some of the ships are scuttled or stripped for parts, and new ones are seized from merchants. Characters wanting to weaken Eustace’s fleet can interfere with any of these methods of acquiring supplies. This is most effective if Eustace does not realize that a concerted effort is being made to weaken his fleet. Characters who do not care if Eustace becomes alarmed may tip him off, weakening his navy gravely, by striking several of his granary ships or raiding vessels simultaneously.''

==Fleet Battle==

''If Eustace knows that he faces powerful magical enemies, he attempts to draw them to Sark, to face all of his forces simultaneously on ground he knows well. He is, however, Proud and Overconfident. He can be provoked to divide his forces and send his war fleet against a seemingly weak foe. Player characters aware that Eustace can only truly die at sea may be eager for him to lead his fleet into battle.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A More Direct Approach==

''Later folklore from Sark provides an alternate plan for defeating Eustace. Magi might play on his Pride and Over-confidence. In the legend, a merchant vessel, richly laden with cargo, sends a boat ashore on Sark. Its crew ask to speak to the lord of the island, and send a rich gift. The chief pirate comes and claims to be lord of the island. The sailors say that their ship is on a voyage to Iberia, carrying expensive cargo, but their captain has died. They promised the captain that he would not be buried at sea, but in a consecrated place. They offer rich gifts to the lord if he allows them to all disembark, save a skeleton crew, and bury their leader.. The pirate king allows this. He plans to send boats to take the vessel while it is lightly crewed, during the funeral. His men then ambush the mourners as they return to their ship. The sailors lift the coffin up the cliffs of Creux, and carry it to''
''a church. Once they are inside, the lid is lifted off and the weapons concealed within are distributed. The sailors massacre the pirates still ashore. The pirates boarding the merchant vessel find that it has no cargo: it is packed with armed men. The ship belongs to a prominent merchant, and the crew are a mixture of mercenaries, hired by the residents of nearby ports, and volunteers with scores to settle. In this style of raid, the characters flatter Eustace enough that he comes to them. This means they don’t need to fight through his minions. Once he is in sight, they destroy him with powerful spells, or give him magical gifts which kill him when triggered. Splitting the combat between the magi ashore and their companions on the boat allows two combats, with different levels of intensity, as suits the level of power of the characters involved.''

|}

==Argenta, the Mistress of Pirates==

''Order: Lady of the Furies Infernal Might: 30 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +2, Str +7, Sta +2, Dex +3, Qik +2 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 5 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Berserk Personality Traits: Wrathful +4, Selfcontrolled –6. Reputations: Goddess of the Wolves of the Sea 5 (Infernal) Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +16, Defense +13, Damage +13 Soak: +12 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, 0, –1, –1, –3, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33+) Abilities: Various, including Brawl 8 (bite) Powers: Berserk Rage, 1 point, Init 0, Mentem: Can grant anyone the Berserk virtu, which persists until the target calms. Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Endurance of the Enraged: 0 points, Init. 0, Corpus: Argenta suffers no penalties''
''from wounds, excepting Defense penalties. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: Avaricious. Summon Demons, Points equal Might, Init +1, Vim. This power summons lesser demons, and is the source of Eustace’s daughter and minions. This power’s cost is vast, and so it is used only rarely, and when Argenta can rest in powerful Infernal auras, to regain her strength quickly. Tools of The Ravagers, 3 points, Init 0, varies by thing produced: This power allows Argenta to summon valuable items, which are then used by her followers in their piracy. It costs her roughly 1 Might point per pound of mortal cost to create these items. Items must be props suitable for use by her pirates. Argenta summons the apes possessed by Eustace’s Mockeries using this power.  These items are summoned by her power, not created, and so are not resisted by Parma Magica. A barrel of burning pitch that suddenly appears may be mistaken for a resistible attack, and may fool player''
''characters into believing Argenta is unafraid of fire. Waxing Tide of Humors, 3 points, Init +2, Mentem: Causes passion to overcome sense. The victim must make a stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9, modified by appropriate Personality Traits to keep the emotion in check. This power is often used immediately after a use of the Obsession power. Weakness: Vulnerable to fire (the touch of any flame causes a Light Wound.) Vis: 6 pawns Herbam vis sordida in teeth. Appearance: Argenta looks like a great carved figurehead, of a woman with wind-blown hair and an exposed bosom. Her eyes shine with infernal flame, and her mouth is a vast, sharklike cavity, edged with teeth like broken planks.''
''This demoness patronizes mortals who engage in banditry by sea. She is a Fury, a demon of discord and battle, but she is similar to, and has many of the powers of, a False Goddess. She is the provider of the mockery demons provided to Eustace, and described later.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Lubbers==

''Order: Mazzikim Infernal Might: 10 (Aquam) Characteristics: Int –1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –5, Str +15, Sta +5, Dex –1, Qik –9 Size: +3 Virtues and Flaws: Huge, Weak-Willed, Clumsy Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Lazy +4. Combat: Fist: Init –9, Attack +3*, Defense -2, Damage +15 * 	 Includes -3 penalty for Clumsy Flaw Soak: +7, Leathery skin Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32),''
''Dead (33+) Abilities: Various, including Brawl 6 (fist) and Leadership 6 (demons) Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: Inattentive. Fear of the Wilderness, 2 points, Init +1, Mentem: A single victim who hears the footsteps of the lubber must make a Brave roll against an Ease Factor of 7, or flee. If the character cannot flee, he is catatonically terrified until the sun rises or the lubber leaves. If the characters can see the lubber up to 10 victims are affected,''
''otherwise it is whomever is closest to the lubber. Weakness: Abhorent object (whips). Vis: 2 pawns Perdo vis sordida in hands. Appearance: Lubbers are human in form, but lack heads. They are huge, slow, and clumsy. Their hands each have four thumbs and no fingers. The flesh of the lubbers is pale blue, and greasy, and they have no body hair.''
''Argenta’s personal guards are three lubbers. At the storyguide’s discretion they can as an untrained group, as a single trained group, or lead three trained groups of reveners.''

|}
''Tempting Eustace to Battle''
''Eustace has a fear-inspiring pirate fleet, and so, on some level, he is always thinking of ways to use it. He can be tempted to naval battle in a variety of ways. He does not, however, engage in land based battles larger than raids, or personally lead raiding parties ashore. This seems strange, since he knows he is destined to die at sea, but his invisibility power only works while he is aboard ship. He counts on it to preserve him in most conflicts, should circumstances turn bad. Treasure ships: Eustace concentrates his forces and strikes if a large and valuable convoy is assembled. Several Venetian merchants have discussed the idea of sending a fleet to England, although they have never been able to pass the Muslims blocking the mouth of the Mediterranean. On a smaller level, the wool clip of England is exported to the Continent, and a sufficiently large convoy of wool ships could attract Eustace. If being aided by a king, this can be inconspicuously forced: in Scotland, for example, all wool is exported from a single town, all about the same time. A similar monopoly can be created to encourage the formation of a convoy of sufficient value and size to''
''tempt Eustace to commit all of his forces. English raid: The kings of England have wished to take Sark for some time, and they, or their nobles, are likely willing to raid the island, if the player characters can present a plan which makes victory seem likely. Given the option of confronting the English fleet at sea or waiting until the men on board land, Eustace would prefer a naval battle. This is because troop transports may have orders to drop their men and retreat, awaiting a signal to come and evacuate their marines after the island has been subdued. If Eustace instead bests the fleet before it disgorges its men, he can claim the ships for his pirate armada. Direct challenge: The simplest way to force Eustace to battle is to anchor a small fleet near Sark and deliver messages indicating that his presence is required. Eustace maintains his control over his followers through a mixture of reward and intimidation. He cannot retain his place if he acts like a coward, or fails to confront a fleet which is sapping his income by picking off his vessels, or protecting merchants. He really has no choice but to accept battle, if the challenges sent to him are worded in a way that makes Eustace appear weak if he fails to answer them.''
''Extent of Eustace’s Forces''
''Eustace’s entire fleet is comprised of 16 large and 20 small vessels. Each large vessel can carry between 12 and 90 pirates, and each small vessel between 3 and 15. If Eustace draws all of his forces together he has:''
''• Just under 500 men or briny demons • 36 sheeteaters • 12 incubi, (who fly away if the battle seems to be in the balance) • Seven mockery demons • One shantyman per ship he actually crews • Two leakspringers, described in the Siege of Sark section, which Eustace prefers to keep there. • One or more copies of Leraje, described in the Siege of Sark section, which Eustace prefers not to use shipboard.''
''Naval battles in this part of the world have no artillery component, so Eustace gains no advantage from spreading his pirates through as many bottoms as possible. He instead concentrates his men into fewer vessels.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Leakspringers==

''Order: Mazzikim Infernal Might: 10 (Terram) Characteristics: Int –2, Per 1, Pre –1, Com 0, Str +5, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Weak-Willed Personality Traits: Selfish +5, Wrathful +4. Combat: Awl: Init 0, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage +7 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Various, including Brawl 6 (awl) and Swim 5 (ocean).''
''Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. Envisioning; 1 point, Init +0, Mentem. Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: Saboteur. Fear of the Wilderness, 2 points, Init +1, Mentem: A single victim who hears the leakspringer tapping on the planks of the boat must make a Brave roll against an Ease Factor of 7, or flee. If the character cannot flee, for example because it is too far to swim to shore, then they become a quivering pile of terrified sailor until the sun rises or the ship anchors. If the characters can see the leakspringer up to 10 victims are affected, otherwise it is whomever is closest to the point where the awl hits the hull.''
''Weakness: Protected group (the clergy). Note that this means that leakspringers cannot sink a boat carrying a cleric. Vis: 2 pawns Perdo vis sordida in awl. Appearance: Human forms made of slop and bilge, with a long spike where the left hand should be.''
''Leakspringers are misshapen humanoids made from the filth in the bilges of pirate ships. They cause shipwrecks by coagulating in the hulls of vessels, then striking their fists through hull planking. Eustace has only two leakspringers, and deploys them as his enemies are preparing to land. This buys him time to prepare for an assault.''

|}
''His large ships are slow, but they have higher sides than most small ships, and their larger crews can swarm over smaller vessels. Eustace also packs some small, swift ships with men. These intercept the enemy, forcing them to stop and fight, which allows his large ships to pull alongside the entangled foe. If the characters have successfully attacked Eustace’s forces before this battle, the number of hulls and pirates he commands are reduced. If his patroness is worried by the actions of the player characters, she provides Eustace with naptha bombs for his demonic apes to throw. These clay pots are filled with a substance like Greek fire, which can effectively only be extinguished by magic. If Eustace has naptha bombs, he uses all of his light ships, with minimal crews, since his goal is to sink, rather than board, the enemy vessels. A naptha bomb does +5 damage, ignites the ship, and cannot be extinguished with water. Sand, in large quantities, extinguishes the flame.''
''Ploys For Fleet Battles''
''Eustace can make his flagship invisible, but if the battle turns against him, he must dispel the effect. He controls his fleet using signals flown from his mainmast, and his captains need to be able to see his ship to co-ordinate. Player characters can force Eustace to make his ship visible by making an unexpected manoeuvre, outside the commands and contingencies given in advance to Eustace’s captains, so that he must give them new instructions. Defectors from Eustace’s fleet, and Stephen Crabbe, know this. Signalling flags are Eustace’s only means of giving orders to his captains while in battle. One way to shatter the coherence of Eustace’s fleet is to incinerate or splinter his mainmast, so''
''it cannot be used to fly signals. Eustace’s signals can be transferred to another mast, but it takes him several minutes to run a new line for the flags. Eustace’s ships are pirate vessels, which mean they need to be swift. The characters can gain some advantage by “bearding” their vessels, a technique unavailable to Eustace. Bearded vessels have metal plates nailed to their bows to provide armor and extra reinforcement if ships collide. Bearding a ship slows it appreciably, but makes it more resistant to damage.''

==The Siege of Sark==

''Characters besieging Sark face many obstacles, which can be overcome with appropriate magic.''
''Landing Points''
''There are no good harbors in Sark, and none of the handful of poor ones are sufficiently large to allow a force to swiftly land and muster. This can be resolved in several ways. Magic which removes the boulders from the channels approaching the beaches makes navigation safer, and allows invading ships to moor in formation. A sea wall that provides a breakwater makes landing easier. Spells that extend the beaches of Sark, either by adding material or carving into the mountainous shell of the island, might be helpful. Creating jetties makes it unnecessary to use lighters, small landing boats, speeding disembarkation considerably. There is a beach of sorts on the island of Brecqhou. The pirates have only a weak presence on that island. It could serve as an unobserved landing, if the straight between this island and Sark can be crossed with without disturbing the elemental. When enemies attempt to land on Sark, Eustace dispatches his leakspringers.''
''Creux Cliffs''
''The cliffs at the most likely landing site on the island, Creux, provide the defenders with many advantages, particularly if they have time to install ballistae, cauldrons of boiling water, pyramids of heavy stones, or other siege equipment. The cliffs are, however, only a few hundred feet thick. A magus could make the defensive advantages of the Creux Cliffs irrelevant simply by forcing a tunnel through them, and into the heart of the island. Characters can also reduce the advantages of the defenders by creating stairs or ramps up the cliffs, by reducing visibility, and by providing protection against the boiling water, stones and shafts that the defenders employ. To stiffen the defence at this point, Eustace might order the demon Leraje to resist the invaders. Particularly formidable player characters might face several copies of this demon, sniping from protected points on the cliff face.''
''La Moinerie''
''This small monastery is the center of Eustace’s little empire. He lives here with his trusted lieutenants and some of his demons. The monastery has a low wall with a sheltered walkway and two lookout towers surrounding it. This allows Eustace’s men to fire on approaching invaders. The aura of the monastery’s grounds is tainted, making magic more dangerous. If the battle is obviously going badly, Eustace attempts to stretch it out so that midnight comes. This allows him to use his Amorphous Virtue to shift shape, and attempt to blend into the mass of pirates and Sarcees. The rooms within the monastery provide opportunities for skirmish battles against pirates, undead, corrupted beasts, and mockery demons. In a cave beneath the monastery, artificially en''
''larged, is a shrine to the demoness that patronizes Eustace. Argenta manifests for the battle if her prize pawn seems likely to be taken from her. She also offers Eustace resources he has not previously controlled: her personal servants, the Lubbers.''
''Warehouses''
''Just past the cliffs are eight warehouses in which supplies for the fleet are kept. A few pirates sleep here as watchmen. The warehouses are made of stone, but are not built as fortifications. Destroying these warehouses compromises Eustace’s ability to maintain''
''his fleet at its current size. Characters who are, for some reason, unable to defeat Eustace can console themselves by wrecking his stores. This gives them time to recoup their forces, while making it difficult for Eustace to do the same. Half of his men desert if the warehouses are destroyed and Eustace cannot recruit replacements for them until he has resupplied.''

==Rewards==

''Eustace’s pirate fleet lacks trustworthy crews, but if it was repurposed it''
''could be the germ of a powerful trading empire. Sark is not really suitable as a trade base, because its ports are too poor, and it lacks many of the resources that shipyards require. Winchelsea is a major port, and the facilities owned by the diabolic merchants, once purified and repurposed, could provide logistical support to the fleet. Sark is an excellent site for a secluded covenant. The island has few resources, although small amounts of silver and lead lie undiscovered on Little Sark. It is, however, on an almost direct line between Winchelsea and Coutances, two of the busiest ports in the Channel, so the purchase of needed supplies should not prove difficult.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
