''Welcome to Tales of Power, a collection of five stories for Ars Magica Fifth Edition. Similar to its predecessor, Tales of Mythic Europe, this book contains stories for your troupe. Designed for powerful magi and their associates (advanced companion and grog characters), each story can be played as a stand-alone adventure. The stories can also be incorporated into your saga with little effort, providing a string of spectacular exploits worthy of your characters. Magi should be approximately 50 to 60 years out of apprenticeship, and while most of the stories are designed for one or two magi and their companions, they could easily include every magus in the covenant. The following introductions offer a brief summary of each adventure, enough to indicate its rough outline without giving away any secrets. Every''
''member of your group can read the introductions. Groups with multiple storyguides can allocate the stories as desired, with each storyguide picking the story that she would most like to run. Groups with a single storyguide can indicate which adventure they would like to play first.''

==A Cardinal Decision==

''The pope and the Holy Roman Emperor are at odds, and the emperor has besieged Rome, surrounding the city with his army. As the city prepares for the siege, the pope dies. The College of Cardinals convene to pick a new pope. The secular authority''
''of Rome sequesters the cardinals and won’t allow them to leave until they choose a new pope. To most magi, this is a distant problem that doesn’t affect them one way or another. But fate intervenes. Supernatural forces move to influence the papal election, and Infernal, Faerie, and Magic intruders manipulate the cardinals so that they will pick a pope sympathetic to the manipulator’s selfish goals. The cardinals’ selection will change the Church and its influence on the mundane world, changes that will ultimately effect everyone in Mythic Europe. The magi must travel to Rome and untangle a twisted web of supernatural manipulations, cunning lies, secret machinations, and shocking surprises. Can the magi save the College of Cardinals and Mythic Europe?''

==Tales of Power The City of Brass==

''The tale of the City of Brass is well known in Arabic folklore. Hidden within the Egyptian desert, explorers found the fabled lost city and recovered some of the legendary Brass Bottles of Suleiman. Word of this legend draws the characters (whether by curiosity or necessity) to retrace the steps of this famous adventure and locate the city for themselves. The journey will be arduous, but the real challenge is in escaping from the City of Brass with their lives.''

==Encroaching Dominion==

''A new settlement is established discreetly near the covenant, and very quickly grows at an alarming rate — and with it, the influence of the Dominion. The expansion seems almost too good to be true; one might even guess at supernatural help. While the settlement does not threaten the covenant itself, a significant resource is under pressure''
''and, in time, more might be on the line. Investigations of the settlement reveal facts which make an easy resolution of this impossible, including the provisions of the Code among the chief problems. The magi of the covenant need to make some hard decisions and take a stand, one way or the other. They might not even form a united front, forcing them to deal with their internal differences as well as the external threat. Their choices affect the future of their covenant and the policies of the Tribunal.''

==Eustace the Monk==

''The pirate lord Eustace has seized the Isle of Sark, in the English Channel. His fleet is so powerful that the kings of England and France vie for his services; mariners along the coasts of his watery domain fear his name. Rumors swirl about the port cities of the Channel, saying that, as a boy, Eustace gave his soul to the devil in exchange for magical powers and Infernal servants. Eustace’s fleet is unchallenged, and the island of Sark is a natural fortress. Can the player characters discover the truth of Eustace’s power? Can they''
''destroy his fleet and stronghold without a direct confrontation? Can they avoid a pitched battle and win without flinging their mightiest spells against a villainous sorcerer and his minions? Do they want to?''

==A Gathering Storm==

''The Hermetic Oath, sworn by the members of the Order of Hermes, has protected generations of magi. It is the basis for the Peripheral Code, to which all magi of all covenants across all Tribunals adhere. It has ensured that the Order has remained at peace for over two centuries. And it has allowed its members to study and build upon the achievements of their forebears without fear. But when that Oath is foresworn, when the Peripheral Code is ignored, then the peace that binds the Order is in jeopardy and its magi are brought into conflict. This scenario visits the repercussions of broken oaths upon the troupe’s covenant when the interference of magi stirs powerful mundane forces into action. The covenant finds itself a target, and must defend against enemies from both inside and outside the Order.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
