''The pope is dead, and Rome is besieged by the Holy Roman Emperor. Threatened by the invading army, the College of Cardinals convenes to select a new pope. The cardinals are far from making a choice. Half of the cardinals want to select a pope who will continue the war against the emperor, and half want to select a pope who will bow to the emperor’s desires and end the war. Sequestered until they reach a decision, deliberations have dragged on for days with no clear end in sight. Rome and Mythic Europe wait for their decision. Why is it taking so long? Supernatural forces hinder the cardinals’ decision. Creatures from the different supernatural realms of Mythic Europe have targeted certain cardinals, in the hope of promoting them above the others. They''
''use their supernatural influence to force the other cardinals to vote for their representative. Is the Order of Hermes involved as well? Is a magus meddling in one of the most important decisions the mundane world makes? As the church elders deliberate, caught in a tide of supernatural influence, the papal throne remains unoccupied, and the sede vacante (the empty papal seat) has other effects on Mythic Europe. Supernatural auras fluctuate, tempers and temperaments change unexpectedly, and significant annoyances everywhere suggest that something is wrong. Can the magi set things right by protecting the cardinals from a variety of supernatural threats until the College elects a new pope? Can they do so without breaking their own Oaths of non-interference?''

==Précis==

''The pope and the Holy Roman Emperor have been enemies for years. Regardless of who the actual pope or emperor is, the political positions are inevitably at odds as both parties wrestle for control of the northern Italian cities, collectively assembled in the Lombard League. Disputes are usually waged with papal bulls and imperial edicts, but recent incidents have escalated to bloodshed. The emperor, once nearly unbeatable on the grassy field of battle, has done poorly in recent years, and more and more Italian communes shake their spears in revolt. Focusing on one of the League’s most important leaders, the emperor surrounded Rome and prepared his siege. As the pope and his general, Matteo Rossi Orsini, readied their defenses, tragedy struck: the pope died from natural causes. The emperor stopped the siege, claiming that his battle is against the current pope and not the papacy, and withdrew most of his army to Apulia. The College of Cardinals was summoned to elect a new pope. Hoping to control the election, the emperor has captured three cardinals who were trying to enter Rome. The captured cardinals have Guelph sympathies, and the emperor has refused to release them. A new pope must be selected from the eleven cardinals already living in Rome. Orsini, eager for a pope who will continue the struggle against the emperor, ordered his men to herd the cardinals into the Septizodium and keep them there until''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Time Sensitivity==

''The cardinals have been sequestered for almost two weeks. While most Romans would like a timely decision, none expect that they will hurry their deliberations, and the cardinals could argue for several more weeks before reaching an agreement. Magi may think they have time to return to their labs and invent a spell to address a specific case that comes up in play. But there is no guarantee that the cardinals will remain undecided. In most cases, the story does not allow for player characters to leave and return later.''
''However, this shouldn’t be a problem for truly powerful magi. Spontaneous spells and copious amounts of vis should allow any magus to participate in this adventure, ensuring that a magus does not need to be a Mentem specialist or have expert knowledge in the political workings of the Church or the city of Rome. Liberally using vis should also overcome the Divine aura penalty imposed on spell casting. Remember, however, that using vis when casting spells adds to the number of botch dice, should a player botch a spellcasting roll.''

|}
''they choose the new Holy Father. The war depends on the choice of the next pope. A staunch opponent to the emperor means a continuation of hostilities, which could mean the sack of Rome. A moderate pope would end the war and concede to the emperor’s wishes. Rome holds its breath as it waits for the cardinals to decide. Regardless of the outcome, the city wants a decision. However, the war is merely the immediate issue; the next pope needs to guide the Church through many challenges. Cathar heretics hide in the hills of southern France like fleas on a dog’s back, and are equally difficult to remove. The king of Hungary is demanding papal support for his crusade into Bosnia to rid the Bosnian Church of its heretical Patarians. The nobles of France cry for another crusade into the Levant, while the damage of the last crusade against the Byzantine Empire still scars the hills of Anatolia. And within the papal curia, certain members are discussing the Order of Hermes and how that organization should fit into the greater scheme of things.''
''As Rome waits, the cardinals cannot reach a majority verdict. Supernatural entities and two wizards are interfering with the cardinals’ deliberations. One''
''of the cardinals, Riccardo Annibaldi, is a diabolist, and using his demonic master’s aid, he stands at the threshold of assuming the highest religious posi''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Guelphs and Ghibellines==

''This adventure involves two important medieval Italian and German political factions. Their history is long and complicated and not essential to this adventure, other than to demarcate one against the other. The Guelphs are supporters of the pope and the Papal States, and the Ghibellines are supporters of the emperor and the Holy Roman Empire. While most men do not wear their political insignia on their sleeve, the principals in the current struggle have made their political sympathies known and come from families who declared their political affiliation long ago. Everyone knows who is for the pope and who is for the emperor.''

==Changing the Adventure==

''“The Cardinals’ Decision” is drawn from the historical record of the papal conclave of 1241. Pope Gregory IX died on 22 August 1241, while Rome was surrounded by the army of the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II. If your saga has progressed this far, it is entirely suitable to use these men as the pope and the emperor. If your saga is set at a different date, you can change the specific pope and emperor effortlessly. As mentioned in the adventure, several popes and emperors have wrestled for political control over northern Italy. In 1220, the pope is Honorius III. Storyguides who do not wish to set this adventure in Rome have more work on their hands, but the storyguide''
''characters don’t need to change. Many medieval papal elections happened outside the city of Rome, but only one outside the Italian peninsula (1119, in the Abbey of Cluny). The essentials of the story stay the same as long as the College of Cardinals is sequestered in a building with an aura that Alyates won’t enter. Making this an Infernal rather than Faerie aura could be interesting, turning the Planetary Divinities into Infernal False Gods (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 37) instead of potent faerie beings. Other buildings would need to change, and you might have to forgo Frederick’s encircling army, but the backbone of the adventure remains.''

|}
''tion in the Roman Church. Tommaso da Capua, another of the cardinals, has been selected by the Planetary Divinities, powerful faerie creatures who were once worshiped in the Septizodium and continue to linger within its dilapidated marble walls. The faeries want their chosen man elected leader. Two wizards also watch the cardinals. Alyates of House Jerbiton had clandestinely controlled the pope for several years, using a fixed Arcane Connection and an enchanted device to accomplish the task. Through subtle magic, Alyates kept the pope warring with the emperor, hoping that eventually the emperor would actually attack the pope. The plan worked, but unfortunately for Aly''
''ates, the pope died. He has an Arcane Connection to one of the cardinals, the most prominent Guelph candidate, Romano Bonaventura. If he can get Arcane Connections to the other cardinals, he can magically make them vote for Bonaventura. As yet, he has not achieved this goal. The second wizard, Buonacorsus, is not a Hermetic magus. He belongs to a group of rival wizards called the Augustan Brotherhood, many of whom serve the emperor. He hopes to magically persuade the cardinals to pick Goffredo da Castiglione, a septuagenarian Ghibelline who is sympathetic to the emperor. This four-way supernatural influence has created a tangled web of indecision,''
''with cardinals changing their minds and their votes, never forming a majority for a single candidate. While it is not difficult to ascertain that other powers are controlling the cardinals, it may be difficult to deal with the various puppet masters. Moreover, if one is weakened, three grow stronger. News of the protracted conclave reaches the player character magi, who are asked by another agent to intervene. The magi must go to Rome and sneak inside the Septizodium. They are limited by their Oaths of Hermes, particularly the provision not to interfere to the extent that it might harm their sodales. Player characters must defuse the various threats of manipulation and let the cardinals reach their own decision. Can the magi resist temptation and not select the man who would best benefit the Order of Hermes?''

==Dramatis Personæ==

''This adventure has four primary antagonists: Oriens the demon, Alyates, Buonacorsus, and the faerie Planetary Divinities. All four supernaturally manipulate people’s emotions, memories, and decisions toward their own ends. The targets of these antagonists are the College of Cardinals, and each of the antagonists has selected a specific cardinal to control. The other cardinals, those whose votes are necessary to win the election, are only briefly described.''

==Oriens==

''The demon Oriens is a lord of the Order of Spirits of Deceit (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38). As Prince of the East, he is the most powerful of the four demons of the cardinal directions, and ruler of hundreds of lesser demons.''

==Oriens==

''Order: Spirit of Deceit Infernal Might: 40 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +3, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex +4, Qik +4 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 3 (13) Virtues and Flaws: Entrancement; Tough Personality Traits: Haughty +5, Deceitful +6, Trustworthy –5 Reputations: Prince of the East 9 (demons) Hierarchy: 9 Combat: Claws: Init +4, Attack +17, Defense +15, Damage +8 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Athletics 5 (climbing), Brawl 7 (claws), Entrancement 5 (minor clergy), Folk Ken 6 (clerics), Guile 7 (tempting rulers), Intrigue 6 (clerical benefices) Powers: A Sight Too Beautiful to Behold, 3 points, Init +1, Corpus: With this power, Oriens can cause the eyeballs of the''
''targeted individual to melt, permanently blinding and disfiguring the target. The power is usable at Voice Range. Change Form, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38. Coagulation, 4 points, Init –1, Corpus: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31. Forked Tongue of the Serpent, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38. Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Abuse of Political Power. See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 31-2. The Serpent’s Oracle, 2 points, Init –3, Vim: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38. Trust of the Innocent,, 1 point, Init –1, Mentem: See Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 38. Weakness: Protected Group (Christian peasants) Vis: 8 pawns of Infernally tainted Mentem Vis, 2 pawns in each of the 4 eyes. Appearance: Oriens’ true form is horrific; a snarling, four-eyed, cat head attached to the neck and body of a powerful, bipedal serpent whose reptilian legs end in clawed paws.''
''Oriens hopes to place his diabolist servant on the papal throne, which would wreak untold havoc with mankind by leading thousands of Christian worshipers into falsehood. Oriens has many servants, but the diabolist cardinal has advanced the furthest and is closest to the pinnacle of Infernal deceit. Because of a complicated hierarchical contract with more powerful demons, Oriens cannot directly interact with the sequestered cardinals unless specially summoned by his vassal Annibaldi. Thus blocked from direct interference, he must rely on his underling to achieve the papal tiara. But the demon has invested too much in this man to sit idly by, and therefore lingers in spiritual form outside the Septizodium. Because he can assume any form at will, he sometimes turns into a crow and perches on the roof, while other times he masquerades as a soldier or passerby, all in an attempt to discover what is happening. Oriens will not be happy if his servant is exposed and defeated. Oriens has the Entrancement Virtue and can supernaturally control targets. Magically manipulating a man to sin isn’t the same thing as tempting him into error, which means that Oriens will use this power on enemies and lackeys, but not on the cardinals. Finally, Oriens can control a large group of subservient demons. Use the statistical information for Fimus, Warrior Demon (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 68). While his army is huge, you should limit the number of demons he has at his disposal for this story, depending on how dangerous you want to make it.''

==Alyates of House Jerbiton==

''Alyates is a Greek magus born in the Tribunal of Thebes. He was apprenticed in Constantinople and, upon completing his Gauntlet, remained within the City of Cities. Throughout his career, Alyates''
''had been interested in theology, especially the Credo (Latin, “I believe”), the fundamental beliefs of a Christian and how those beliefs differ between the Roman Church of the west and the Greek Church of the east. He has long thought that magic might be able to permanently affect a man’s mental faculties and change his beliefs. As a result, he has focused on Mentem magic and the medical and philosophical properties of the human mind. Alyates’ first explorations into man’s beliefs were benign. He hoped to bind the Christian cleavage between east and west. Arrogant but passive, Alyates had great hopes for his future. The Latin conquest of Constantinople in 1204 dashed those hopes to the ground and covered them in blood. His covenant, Thermakopolis, was destroyed defending the city. Most of the covenant members were slain, and Alyates was severely wounded. He disappeared into Anatolia to recover from his wounds, but he never announced that he had survived. Alyates blamed the crusaders’ crimes on the Roman Church and its head, Pope Innocent III. To bring about the Church’s end, the magus decided to force the pope into a war with the Holy Roman Emperor, a long-term enemy of the bishop of Rome. He clandestinely searched the remains of his old covenant and retrieved the Cup of Carbonius. This enchanted item creates a mystical link to a target, with a high Penetration bonus, through which Alyates could cast spells. He then went west to Rome to bring about the pope’s downfall. Alyates knows that spells leave telltale sigils, making him hesitant to overtly destroy his targets with magic. He has found that subtle manipulation worked better, and that precise control of a target can be managed with a less powerful spell whose sigil fades faster. Alyates is a master of planting suggestions and creating decisions in a target’s cognition, the part of the mind that determines what choices a person makes. Small suggestions are also easily''
''destroyed with Perdo Mentem magic, removing the evidence of an implanted suggestion. By manipulating the pope’s decisions, Alyates has exacerbated the animosity between the pope and the emperor. Never casting spells whose consequences would be too obvious, Alyates managed to keep the two men enemies for years. He hoped to strain the relationship to the breaking point and create war between the most powerful western prince and the Roman Church. He nearly succeeded, but his efforts unraveled when the pope died. Undaunted, Alyates wants to continue his plan using a new target. Through prior efforts, he has an Arcane Connection to Romano Bonaventura, the leading Guelph candidate sequestered in the Septizodium. He watches the daily proceedings through Bonaventura’s eyes, but without Arcane Connections to the other cardinals, he cannot make them vote for Bonaventura. He cannot obtain them himself because of the Septizodium’s Faerie aura and the faeries living inside, against whom his magic is especially weak. Alyates cannot even enter a Faerie aura without become disoriented and physically ill. He must have Bonaventura acquire and somehow deliver the necessary Arcane Connections. As the player characters enter Rome, Alyates has decided to force Bonaventura to grab Arcane Connections from the other cardinals and throw them from the Septizodium’s balcony. Disguised as a fishwife selling lunch to the soldiers outside the building, Alyates hopes to snatch up the falling Arcane Connections. Besides his skills with Mentem spells, Alyates can also create flawless magical disguises called personae (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 90). He has created detailed histories for these personae, each of which has a Reputation of 3. “Malgarita Ramberti” is a fishwife, a local Roman merchant. Alyates’ second persona has been intentionally left undefined, so a storyguide can create a specific persona that works well for his group.''
''Alyates knows that another wizard, a member of the Augustan Brotherhood named Buonacorsus, lives in Rome. After a few casual inquiries, Alyates assumes this wizard is more charlatan than magician, and is unconcerned by his presence. Alyates will use this knowledge if it serves him (see “Catching Alyates” later).''
''Meet Me at Midnight''
''CrMe 15 R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind This spell implants a thought in the target’s mind to meet the caster at a time and location specified when the spell is cast. The thought lasts until the spell expires. (Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''Forcing the Undecided’s Decision''
''ReMe 35 R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind This spell allows the caster to implant a complex suggestion into the target’s mind, which the target then completes to the best of his ability. (Base 20, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''Borrow the Eyes of Another''
''InMe 30 R: Arc; D: Conc; T: Ind The caster can see through the eyes of anyone to whom he has an Arcane Connection (Art & Academe, page 33).''
''Similarly, the spell Borrow the Ears of Another lets the caster hear through the ears of anyone to whom he has an Arcane Connection. (Base 5, +4 Arc, +1 Conc)''
''Loss of a Lasting Day’s Memory''
''PeMe 20 R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind This spell removes a specific event from a target’s memory. The event can be up to a day in length and may involve multiple elements. (Base 15, +1 Eye)''

==Alyates of House Jerbiton Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +3, Str –2 (1), Sta –1, Dex –1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 90 (47) Decrepitude: 0 (1) Warping Score: 7 (1) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Affinity with Mentem, Educated, Improved Characteristics, Persona*, Premonitions, Puissant Mentem; Driven (to destroy the pope), Dark Secret (not actually dead, and an Oath breaker); Susceptibility to Faerie Power, Visions Personality Traits: Cynical +3, Egotistical +2, Rigid +2 Reputations: As Malgarita: Successful Manager 3 (merchants of Rome) Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Area Lore: Constantinople 3 (city covenants), Area Lore: Rome 3==

''(abandoned temples), Artes Liberales 3 (grammar), Awareness 2 (determining magical effect), Bargain 2 (books), Code of Hermes 3 (mundane interactions), Concentration 5 (spell concentration), Etiquette 2 (court), Finesse 5 (Mentem), Folk Ken 2 (priests), Greek 5 (witticisms), Guile 2 (elaborate lies), Italian 4 (merchant slang), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Magic Theory 8 (Mentem), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (politics), Parma Magica 6 (Corpus), Penetration 5 (Mentem), Personae 2 (Malgarita and one other), Philosophiae 2 (ceremonial magic), Premonitions 3 (personal danger), Scribe 2 (copying lab texts) Arts: Cr 18, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 15, Re 16; An 5, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 18, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 27+3, Te 5, Vi 7 Twilight Scars: Elongated forehead Equipment: Clothing typical of his current persona Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: Curse of the Unruly Tongue ReCo 5/+33 Meet Me at Midnight CrMe 15/+47 Rising Ire CrMe 15/+47 Convince a Man He Has an Enemy CrMe20/+47''
''Memory of the Distant Dream CrMe 20/+47 Weight of a Thousand Hells CrMe 25/+47 Perception of the Conflicting Motives InMe 15/+34 Posing the Silent Question InMe 20/+34 Borrow the Ears of Another InMe 30/+34 Borrow the Eyes of Another InMe 30/+34 Peering into the Mortal Mind InMe 30/+34 Loss of but a Moment’s Memory PeMe 15/+44 Loss of a Lasting Day’s Memory PeMe 20/+44 Blessing of Childlike Bliss PeMe 25/+44 Passion’s Lost Feeling PeMe 25/+44 Black Whisper PeMe 40/+48 The Call to Slumber ReMe 20/+45 Trust Me ReMe 20/+45 (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) Aura of Inconsequence ReMe25/+49 (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 73) Forcing the Undecided’s Decision ReMe 35/+45 Enslave the Mortal Mind ReMe 40/+45 Shroud Magic MuVi 20/ +11 Appearance: Alyates is an average-sized man with dark hair and a full beard, dressed in ostentatious robes of blue and gold. Malgarita is a stocky woman with large hips and shoulders, a crooked nose, and graying hair, dressed in the traditional clothes of a fishmonger.''
''Convince a Man he has an Enemy''
''CrMe 20 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind This spell convinces the target that he has an enemy, selected at the time of the casting. The target does not remember why the selected person is his enemy and naturally assumes that the origin of the dispute happened long ago. This spell does not dictate a target’s response to his enemy, but merely installs the notion of enmity in the target’s mind. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''The Cup of Carbonius''
''ReVi 83 Pen +52, 3/day R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind The Cup of Carbonius is a gold chalice that creates a mystical link from the activator to the target, using the Hermetic spell Opening the Intangible Tunnel. The owner places an Arcane Connection inside the cup and triggers it with a command word, at which point the cup activates the spell. The created link stays open as long as the owner desires, with the cup itself maintaining the concentration needed to keep the link active. The owner, or anyone else who can peer into the cup and see the Arcane Connection, can cast spells through the link. Only spells of level 30 or lower can be cast through the cup at the target. The cup’s power must Penetrate the target’s Magic Resistance to establish the link, and every successive spell must also Penetrate. The cup’s Penetration was determined in its creation; any spell cast through the cup’s mystical link must determine its Penetration in the usual way. Remember that the Arcane Connection used also adds a modifier to a spell’s Penetration multiplier (ArM5, page 84). Only Hermetic spells can be cast through the mystical link, and just as with the spell Opening the Intangible''
''Tunnel, spells can be cast back through the cup, from the target to the bearer. This is a powerful effect and causes Warping to the target. Because this effect is so strong, of much greater magnitude than any spell that can be cast through it, Carbonius’ sigil is the strongest lingering identifier. (Effect: Base 25, +4 Arc, +1 Conc; +2 frequency, +5 maintain concentration, +26 Penetration)''
''The Homeward Bound Bracelet''
''ReCo 42 Pen 0, 3/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind This magical silver bracelet instantly transports the wearer to a location to which he has an Arcane Connection. The wearer must touch the Arcane Connection to the bracelet and speak the command word at the same time for the item to function. (Effect: Base 35, +1 Touch; +2 frequency)''

==Buonacorsus of the Augustan Brotherhood==

''Buonacorsus is a senior member of the Augustan Brotherhood, a group of non-Hermetic wizards who want to increase the emperor’s political importance (see Rival Magic, Chapter 3). After years of thought, Buonacorsus devised a plan to make the Church subservient to the emperor. Knowing that the Italian popolo (the common people) would never accept a world without a religious leader, Buonacorsus planned to replace the current pope with a man loyal to the emperor. Because Virgilian magic, the magic of the Augustan Brotherhood, targets areas and not people, devising a method to magically kill the pope was difficult. After studying the pope’s personal habits and spending''
''many years in Rome to invent city-specific rites, Buonacorsus finally devised a plan. He enchanted a stone statue to make a building unbearably hot, hoping that long-term heat exposure would kill those inside. While not every pope likes to stay in Rome, especially during the humid summer, the current pope did. Buonacorsus hoped that the man’s reluctance to leave the city would be his downfall. He paid workmen to move the statue inside the pope’s residence. Days later, the pope died. Buonacorsus wants Goffredo da Castiglione, a Ghibelline, elected pope. Buonacorsus knew that the traditional location for papal elections in Rome was the Septizodium, and he ordered his team of workers to move his awakened statue to the building. He also cast A Murder is Planned and Suffer the Judgment of Jericho rites on the Septizodium. The first rite indicates that things are going as planned, that his rites are still in effect as long as the crows use the roof as their roost. The second brings the building down if the wrong cardinal is selected. He then cast the rite A Murderous Assault Will Befall You. Though the rite will have a poor Penetration total and may fail, Buonacorsus still hopes it succeeds, and that the ensuing racket of cawing crows will alert him if Hermetic wizards have entered Rome. Thus prepared, Buonacorsus sits in his secret hiding place in the Colosseum, using his powers of divination to follow the events in the Septizodium. He can accurately divine the daily happenings of any character with a Reputation of 4 or higher. Either Castiglione will be selected pope, or the cardinals will all die.''
''A Murder is Planned''
''School of the Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 21 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Structure Cast upon a building, this Rite attracts 500 crows that make the building''
''their home over the course of Moon duration. The birds are free to come and go, but they always return to the building as they would any other natural roost. The suggestion lasts for Duration: Moon and affects all birds equally. Once the Duration expires, most of the crows are likely to leave for less crowded roosts. The rite is triggered upon casting, and then starts to draw crows to the warded building. (Base 3, +9 Moon, +6 Structure, +3 for a group of crows)''
''A Murderous Assault Will Befall You''
''School of the Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 33 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: City''
''This rite causes 500 of Rome’s crows to flock and attack a group of people entering Rome through any of the city’s gates. The trigger is a person who considers himself a member of the Order of Hermes. When such a person enters through a city gate, he and everyone at the gate are assaulted by 500 murderous crows. The crows do not discriminate, and will attack anyone in the immediate area. While the crows are roused to action by magic, they are not themselves magical and are not resisted by Magic Resistance. The assault lasts no less than a Diameter, or two minutes, enough time for twenty standard combat rounds, during which time any and all targets in the area are subject to attack. Like other Virgilian rites, the magic must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of both the trigger’s initiator and the af''
''fected target. The initiator is the person who thinks of themselves as “a member of the Order of Hermes,” and the affected target is the nearby crows. (Base 15, +3 Diameter, + 9 City, +3 for a group of crows. Ease Factor raised by 1 magnitude (+3) to reflect the intricacies of using Virgilian divination in the trigger.)''
''Escaping the Gloomy Places''
''School of Prometheus, Ease Factor 15 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Structure Similar to He enters among them, veiled in shadows (see Rival Magic, page 60), this rite dims all light within a room and adds +3 to Stealth rolls. The triggering action is when anyone in the warded area yells “Omnis sonus excitat!”''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Buonacorsus of the Augustan Brotherhood==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +3, Pre 0, Com +4, Str 0, Sta –3, Dex +1, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 104 (39) Decrepitude: 3 (15) Warping Score: 7 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (7) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Court Wizard; Affinity with Virgilian Theory, Educated, Generous Master, Great Communication, Unaging; Enemies (the Guelphs); Clumsy, Susceptibility to Infernal Power Personality Traits: Persistent +3, Cowardly +2, Patient +2 Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Fist: Init –2, Attack +4, Defense +1, Damage 0 Soak: –3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animo 9 (stone statues), Artes Liberales 4 (rhetoric), Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 2 (royal superiors),''
''Civil and Canon Law 2 (papal conclaves), Etiquette 1 (court dinners), Finesse 4 (controlling rites), Folk Ken 2 (imperial retainers), Guile 1 (lying to women), Italian 5 (enunciation), Intrigue 2 (Neapolitan nobility), Latin 5 (Virgilian nuances), Organization Lore: Augustan Brotherhood 3 (personalities), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (current practices), Penetration 6 (School of the Stones rites), Philosophiae 2 (ethics), Profession: Scribe 3 (preparing materials), Sortes Virgilianae 6 (questions about Rome), Stealth 5 (fleeing), Virgilian Theory 7 (School of Stones) Schools: School of Boreas 0, School of the Naiads 1, School of Prometheus 9, School of the Stones 14, School of the Sylvan Dryads 0, School of Vigilant Bees 10 Equipment: Scholarly robes, a copy of Virgil’s Aeneid Encumbrance: 0 (0) Rites Known: A Murder Is Planned 15 (School of the Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 21) Casting Score +29''
''A Murderous Assault Will Befall You 15 (School of the Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 33) Casting Score +29 Escape the Gloomy Places 6 (School of Prometheus, Ease Factor 18) Casting Score +19 Stony Protection of the Hearth 12 (School of the Stones, Ease Factor 18) Casting Score +30 Suffer the Judgment of Jericho 20 (School of the Stones, Ease Factor 21) Casting Score +38 Summer’s Sweltering Heat 17 (School of Prometheus, Ease Factor 30) Casting Score +30 The Hounds’ Bay of Recognition 8 (School of Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 15) Casting Score +22 The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush 14 (School of the Stones, Ease Factor 21) Casting Score +32 Appearance: Hirsute and swarthy, Buonacorsus looks at first glance like a seedy Mediterranean farmer, slightly overweight with a dishonest gleam in his eye. He wears a simple white linen tunic and straw hat.''

|}
''(“Every sound alarms!”) (Base 6, +3 Diameter, +6 Structure)''
''Stony Protection of the Hearth''
''School of the Stones, Ease Factor 18 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Room This rite launches a stone boulder at anyone who enters the room without first saying the opening line of Virgil’s Aeneid. Buonacorsus uses this to protect the entrance to his home. (Base 15, +3 Room)''
''Suffer the Judgment of Jericho''
''School of the Stones, Ease Factor 21 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Structure Cast upon a building and triggered if a Guelph pope leaves that building, this rite weakens the building’s stone walls to the point that they collapse under their own weight. Those trapped inside the building, as well as those in close proximity, take +21 damage. Penetration is a concern. Once elected, the pope will have a Divine Resistance of 25. The rite must have a higher Penetration, or it will not recog''
''nize the triggering pope as he leaves the building. (Base 9, +6 Structure, +3 Stone. Ease Factor raised by one magnitude to reflect the intricacies of using Virgilian divination in the trigger.)''
''Summer’s Sweltering Heat''
''School of Prometheus, Ease Factor 27 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Structure This Rite makes the warded area hot, humid, and uncomfortable. Anyone trapped inside the area for a day must''

==Virgilian Magic==

''While most of Buonacorsus’ rites happen off-stage, as storyguide you need to know how they work. Virgilian Magic is fully explained in Rival Magic, pages 52–64, but this small insert should suffice if you do not have access to that supplement. Before beginning play, make sure you have rolled all of Buonacorsus’ casting totals for his active rites and have recorded the Penetration of each rite. Virgilian magic is a magic power, affiliated with the Magic Realm just like Hermetic magic. It is divided into three practices: Sortes Virgilianae (divination), Vigilo, (casting rites), and Animo (constructing magical animations). The first and the third practices have an associated Supernatural Ability. The second practice is subdivided into six Schools, called the Schools of Boreas, Naiads, Prometheus, Stones, Sylvan Dryads, and Vigilant Bees. A School is similar to a Hermetic Form. A rite is very specific and must be individually invented and studied, and has an accompanying score. To cast a rite using Vigilo magic, an Augustan magus uses the following formulas:''
''Casting Score: Communication + School + Rite + Aura Modifier vs. Ease Factor of rite''
''Casting Total: Casting Score + stress die''
''If the casting total is higher than the Ease Factor of the rite, the rite works. To determine the rite’s Penetration, add the wizard’s Penetration Ability score and subtract the Ease Factor from the casting total. The uniquely Virgilian Target: Pentagram receives a Penetration Multiplier Bonus of +5.''
''Penetration Total: Casting Total + Penetration Ability – Ease Factor''
''For example, Buonacorsus casts the rite The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush in his hiding place. His Communication is +4, his School of Stones is 14, and his rite score is 14, giving him a casting score of +32. His hiding place has a Magic aura of 3, granting an additional +3 to the roll. The storyguide rolls a 9 on a stress die, for a casting total of 44, which is higher than the rite’s Ease Factor of 21. The rite’s Penetration is casting total (44) plus Buonacorsus’ Penetration Ability (5 with his specialty), minus the Ease Factor (21) or 28. Each rite has three components: a warded area, a trigger, and an effect. A warded area is a physical location. A trigger is an event or person that passes''
''through or affects the warded area, and the effect is the magical result of a triggered rite. If the effect is triggered by a person, that person is called the “initiator.” Magic Resistance can prevent a rite from triggering, and possibly protect the initiator from the magical effect, if the magical effect directly targets the entity with Magic Resistance. This is similar to Hermetic magic. For example, The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush animates swords with magic, which must Penetrate the target’s Magic Resistance to strike. Suffer the Judgment of Jericho weakens a building’s walls which then collapse, so Magic Resistance won’t stop a falling stone from striking someone standing in the building. Both rites are triggered when an initiator walks into the targeted area, and in both cases, the magic must Penetrate the initiator’s Magic Resistance to trigger the effect. Once a rite is cast, it stays in static existence until triggered, much like the Hermetic Waiting Ward spell. It can linger indefinitely, and all of Buonacorsus’ rites are waiting for the player characters. Intellego Vim spells cast on an area warded by a rite may detect an active rite. To determine the magnitude of a Virgilian rite, divide the Ease Factor by 3. For example, The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush is a 7th magnitude effect. Once detected, a rite can be dispelled by following the regular rules of Perdo Vim magic.''
''make a deprivation check (see ArM5, page 180). The base level of this rite is derived from the level 15 guideline, which strongly chills an area. The opposite of the chilling effect, this rite strongly warms an area. (Base 15, +6 Sun, +6 Structure)''
''The Hounds’ Bay of Recognition''
''School of Vigilant Bees, Ease Factor 15 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: City, Ritual This rite makes every dog in Rome bark for two minutes when a new pope is elected within the city of Rome. The rite is triggered the moment the former cardinal accepts the tiara. The rite must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of its trigger, the newly elected pope, to activate. The effect must also Penetrate to affect any dog in the city that has Magic Resistance. (Base 3, +3 Diameter, +9 City)''
''The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush''
''School of the Stones, Ease Factor 21 R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Room This rite protects the warded area by causing a group of ten long swords to magically animate and attack intruders for the duration of the rite. Use the caster’s Finesse score to calculate the Attack modifier and do not modify the other combat statistics. The caster does not have to be present to direct the swords. Swords controlled by Buonacorsus’ rite use the following Combat statistics: Init +2, Atk +9, Dfn n/a, and Dam +1. The rite is triggered when anyone besides Buonacorsus enters the warded room. Its magic must Penetrate the trigger’s Magic Resistance to activate and to strike the target with the resulting enchanted swords. (Base 6, +3 Diameter, +3 Room, +6 Metal, +3 for a group of swords)''

==Planetary Divinities==

''At some point in their complicated and extensive history, the ancient Romans started venerating the planets, the visible heavenly bodies commented on by Greek and Roman philosophers. Distinct from the gods, many of whom are associated with the same planets, the planetary divinities were seen as lesser gods, and were given names and temples of worship. The actual supernatural beings observed were the Astra Planeta, planetary spirits that belong to the Magic Realm and were uninterested in the Romans’ devotions. The worshipers attracted a different crowd: a group of seven powerful faeries noticed the Romans’ veneration and inserted themselves into the role of the Astra Planeta. To the Roman worshipers, the planetary spirits suddenly took an interest and began to respond to their prayers and supplications. The planetary divinities would favor specific people, charismatic worshipers who increased the divinities’ followers and advanced their reputation. The veneration of the planetary divinities diminished with the downfall of the Roman Empire. For hundreds of years, the planetary divinities idled in their regio, hidden inside the Septizodium. The vociferous arguing of the cardinals roused the planetary divinities from their torpor. They noticed that one of the cardinals had a demonic patron. They also saw another regularly targeted by magic, and noticed another wizard activating the enchanted statue on some mornings. Bemused, the faeries wanted to play too. While not completely understanding what the men were trying to decide, they correctly ascertained that one would rule the others, misinterpreting the title “pontiff” as “Pontifex Maximus,” the high priest of all of the religious cults of pagan Rome. Visiting the dreams of the cardinals, they selected the man most sympathetic to classical paganism, Tommaso da Capua, and promised to make him the pontiff. Swayed by their enchantments, Tommaso agreed.''
''The planetary divinities gain vitality by being venerated. Tommaso’s love of the classics and agreement to be the Pontifex Maximus feel like veneration, and the faeries want more. They think that having the cardinals support Tommaso will mean more vitality. To encourage this, the faeries visit the cardinals in their dreams and promise to make them better, stronger, smarter, or more eloquent. A divinity can only affect the Characteristic it is associated''
''with: the Sun is associated with Presence, the Moon Dexterity, Mercury Quickness, Venus Communication, Mars Strength, Jupiter Intelligence, and Saturn Perception. If promises don’t work, threats might, and the divinities can also permanently decrease a person’s Characteristics. Both threats and promises are expressed in the person’s dreams. The planetary divinities can speak, in archaic Latin, but prefer to express themselves through dreams.''

==The Cardinals==

''There are eleven cardinals sequestered inside the Septizodium. Because of their station in the church, each cardinal receives the Free Supernatural Virtue: Commanding Aura, which grants a Magic Resistance of 20 and a+4 Soak bonus.''

==Planetary Divinities==

''Faerie Might: 40 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +2, Com +2, Str –2, Sta –3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Positive Folktales; Greater Power (x3), Ritual Power (x4); Highly Cognizant, Humanoid Form, Personal Power; Intangible Flesh, Restricted Might (sunlight); Traditional Ward (Folk Charm) Personality Traits: Appropriate to the planet +3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2x, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Artes Liberales 4 (astronomy), Athletics 4 (flying), Awareness 3 (sleepers), Faerie Lore 4 (Roman deities), Folk Ken 4 (worshipers), Intrigue 1 (plotting against each other), Latin 4 (astrological terms), Penetration 5 (Mentem) Powers: Affliction of Heavenly Insanity, 2 points, Init +0, Mentem. R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind. Similar to the Hermetic spell Blessing of Childlike Bliss, this power continually changes a person’s thoughts, continuously scrambling a person’s memory and perceptions throughout the duration of the effect. Magi cannot cast spells under this power’s effect. A target may decide''
''to perform a single action and succeed with an Intelligence + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 12. The action must commence and finish in a single combat round.  Cost 20 levels. (Base 10, +1 Eye, +1 Sun) Enticement of the Dreamer, 3 points, Init –1, Mentem. R: Touch, D: Dream, T: Dream. The planetary divinity can enter a sleeping person’s dream and influence it. The divinity must touch the target, brushing him with the faerie’s intangible fingers. Upon awakening, the sleeper remembers the dream with an Intelligence + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 6.  Cost 30 levels. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Dream) Flight, 2 points, constant, Corpus. The divinities can fly.  Cost 15 spell levels (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 constant) Heaven’s Gazing Erosion of Man, 2 points, Init +0, Mentem or Corpus. R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind. This power permanently grants the target 3 Aging points in the particular Characteristic associated with the planetary divinity. The target also gains 3 points toward Decrepitude.  Cost 20 levels. (Base 15, +1 Eye) Invisibility, 4 points, Init –4, Corpus. The divinities can turn invisible.  Cost 15 spell levels (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 for moving image) Planetary Divinity’s Blessing of (Great Characteristic), 10 points, Init –17, Vim.''
''R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind. Ritual. A specialized version of the common faerie power Grant (Major Virtue), this power allows the planetary divinity to permanently or temporarily increase a specific Characteristic in a target from +3 to +4 or from +4 to +5. Like other ritual powers, permanently increasing the Characteristic reduces the divinity’s Might Score. Each planetary divinity can only increase the Characteristic with which it is associated.  Cost 50 levels. (Special) Planetary Divinity’s Blessing of (Improved Characteristics), 5 points, Init –1, Vim. R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind. Ritual. A specialized version of the faerie power: Grant (Minor Virtue), this power allows the planetary divinity to increase a specific Characteristic by 3 points, to a maximum value of +3. Just like the power The Divinity’s Blessing of (Grant Characteristic), the increase is temporary or permanent as the faerie chooses, and each divinity can only affect the Characteristic associated with that divinity. Cost 50 levels. (Special) Vis: 8 pawns of Vim vis located in the various props of the faerie’s costume, such as toga, sandals, and rod. Appearance: Like performers draped in elaborate costumes, each planetary divinity looks like a youth wearing a Roman toga, ceremonial accoutrements, and bearing emblems representative of their planet.''

==Riccardo Annibaldi, Diabolist Cardinal==

''Riccardo Annibaldi is a diabolist, to whom Oriens has given Infernal blessings. The Annibaldi family is a powerful Italian family hailing from Rome and Lazio, a territory to the south of the city. At the moment, Riccardo is only a cardinal-deacon, the lowest rank of cardinal, but he anticipates greater offices through the aid of his demonic patron. In game terms, the diabolist is a Mythic Companion, which allows him twice as many Virtues as Flaws. The diabolist’s Corruption Supernatural Ability allows him to invoke a Personality Trait on a listener (Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 91), which he will use to his benefit. Common examples are making a belligerent cardinal peaceful, a peaceful cardinal argumentative, and an argumentative cardinal agreeable. To retain his Infernal powers and please his demon patron, Riccardo must cut himself each night, sacrificing a small amount of blood to his patron. The cut does not have to be large, and the cardinal is very discreet about this. Knowing that the wounds may give''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Tommaso da Capua==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1(1), Pre +3, Com +2, Str –1(1), Sta +1(1), Dex –1, Qik –1(1) Size: 0 Age: 46 (46) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Wealthy; Temporal Influence; Commanding Aura (free); Ambitious, Monastic Vows; Clumsy Personality Traits: Starry-eyed +3, Impetuous +3 Reputations: Romantic 4 (Church), Thoughtlessly Impulsive 4 (Church)''
''Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage –1 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 6 (Ovid’s Metamorphoses), Awareness 2 (servants), Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 3 (superiors), Civil and Canon Law 5 (papal curia responsibilities), Concentration 2 (sermons), Etiquette 3 (public''
''functions), Folk Ken 3 (social inferiors), Hunt 3 (local favorite), Intrigue 5 (vocational advantage), Italian 5 (Capuan dialect), Latin 5 (church usage), Leadership 7 (congregation), Organization Lore: Church 4 (history), Philosophiae 3 (ethics), Profession: Scribe 3 (copying texts), Swim 1 (wading), Teaching 3 (multiple students), Theology 5 (Paul’s Epistles) Equipment: Expensive clothes appropriate to his station Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Plump and cheerful, Tommaso looks approachable and friendly''

|}

==Riccardo Annibaldi==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1(1), Pre +2, Com +2, Str –1(1), Sta +1(1), Dex +2, Qik –1(1) Size: 0 Age: 45 (45) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (9) Virtues and Flaws: Diabolist; Senior Clergy; Corruption, Greater Immunity (mind control), Wealthy; Arcane Lore (free), Enticer of Multitudes, Mentored by Demons (x2), Temporal Influence; Commanding Aura (free); Ambitious, Enemies; Arthritis, Fragile Constitution, Motion Sickness, No Sense of Direction Personality Traits: Manipulative +3, Tense +3 Reputations: Strict Leader 4 (Church), Foe to Heretics and Witches 4 (Church) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage –1 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Awareness 2 (lying), Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 2 (social equals), Corruption 6 (5) (personal influence), Civil and Canon Law 5 (papal prerogatives), Concentration 2 (sermons), Bargain 3 (future favors), Etiquette 3 (public functions), Folk Ken 3 (social equals), Guile 3 (social inferiors), Infernal Lore 4 (demons), Intrigue 6 (vocational advantage), Italian 5 (expansive vocabulary), Latin 5 (church usage), Leadership 7 (priests), Legerdemain 3 (slight of hand), Organization Lore: Church 5 (personalities), Philosophiae 3 (ethics), Ride 2 (leisure), Teaching 2 (ordinary lectures), Theology 5 (against the New Aristotle) Equipment: Expensive clothes appropriate to his station Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Square-shouldered and stiff, Riccardo is a severe, uptight figure.''
''him away, he usually cuts himself on his upper thighs, near his groin. Player characters may notice the self-inflicted wounds, although the location of the wounds makes it difficult. If he does not cut himself, Riccardo gains five pounds of weight by morning, a sign of the burden of serving his patron and representative of the sin of gluttony. If Riccardo is prevented from finding a private location in which to cut himself, player characters may notice him gaining weight. Finally, because of his Greater Immunity Virtue, Riccardo cannot be affected by mind-controlling supernatural effects. All of the cardinals can be affected by Oriens, Mentem magic, and the Planetary Divinities except Riccardo. Finally, Riccardo has a few vials of poison, a very mundane and lethal way to deal with cardinals who won’t vote for him.''

==Tommaso da Capua, Pontifex Maximus==

''Tommaso is the Major Penitentiary, or leader of the Apostolic Penitentiary,''
''the tribunal of the Roman Curia that oversees issues of forgiveness of sins in the Church. A native of Capua, a commune located further south along the Italian peninsula in Campania, Tommaso is a highly educated man. To his undoing, he loves classical literature, such as Boethius, Ovid, and Cicero, especially the metaphysical passages that mix natural philosophy with the heavenly bodies. Fate is unkind ― Tommaso is the perfect foil for the Planetary Divinities, and he immediately believes their promises. As Pontifex Maximus, Tommaso receives the blessing of the Planetary Divinities, who can use their faerie magic to raise his Characteristics to +5. He is currently favored by Venus, who has raised Tommaso’s Communication to +5. Nominally, Tommaso is a Guelph and will trigger Buonacorsus’ Suffer the Judgment of Jericho if he is elected pope.''

==Romano Bonaventura==

''Bonaventura is the bishop of PortoSanta Rufina, one of the seven suburbicarian dioceses of the city of Rome. He is also the cardinal deacon of Sant’''
''Angelo in Pescheria, and served as a cardinal-legate to France’s royal court. A lifelong Guelph, Bonaventura is the leading candidate of the Gregorian electors. He is an outspoken opponent of the emperor, and Alyates wants Bonaventura as the next pope, certain that the Guelph’s hostility will lead to a war between the Roman Church and the Holy Roman Empire. So taken is he with himself and his chances to win that Bonaventura hasn’t notice that supernatural forces are at work. Instead, he angrily finds his fellow cardinals temperamental, unable to commit to a decision they had made the day before. If asked, he has met and dined with Alyates on several occasions. He does not know Alyates is a magus, thinking him a Greek scholar interested in theology.''

==Goffredo da Castiglione==

''Castiglione is the cardinal bishop of Sabina, another of the seven dioceses of urban Rome. He is without strong Guelph or Ghibelline attachments, and is the preferred candidate for pope among the Moderates of the Opposition''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Romano Bonaventura==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –2, Pre +3(2), Com +2(2), Str –2, Sta -1, Dex –1, Qik –3(1) Size: 0 Age: 65 (65) Decrepitude: 2 (2) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Wealthy; Temporal Influence; Commanding Aura (free); Ambitious, Enemies; Poor Hearing Personality Traits: Argumentative +3, Aggressive +2 Reputations: Opposes the Emperor 4 (Ecclesiastic), Warmongering 4 (Ecclesiastic)''
''Combat: Dodge: Init –3, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Fist: Init –3, Attack +2, Defense 0, Damage –2 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (grammar), Awareness 2 (lying), Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 2 (superiors), Civil and Canon Law 5 (papal prerogatives), Concentration 2 (sermons), Bargain 3 (threats), Etiquette 3 (religious services), Folk Ken 3 (Guelphs), Guile 3''
''(social equals), Intrigue 6 (vocational advantage), Italian 5 (expansive vocabulary), Latin 5 (church usage), Leadership 7 (priests), Organization Lore: Church 5 (politics), Philosophiae 3 (moral philosophy), Profession: Scribe 3 (glossing the Bible), Ride 2 (leisure), Teaching 2 (extraordinary lectures), Theology 5 (heresy) Equipment: Expensive clothes appropriate to his station Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Despite his age, Bonaventura is still an impressive figure. He struts when he walks, chest puffed out and shoulders back, and is loud and abrasive when he speaks.''

|}
''party. Buonacorsus wants Castiglione to ascend to the papal throne.''

==Guelph Cardinals==

''These cardinals are Guelphs, and they want a pope who will continue an aggressive stance against the emperor. When not magically influenced, each votes for Romano Bonaventura. A Guelph pope concentrates his energies in Italy and continues to rail against powerful kings. As far as the Order of Hermes is concerned, any Guelph besides the diabolist Annibaldi and the warmongering Bonaventura would be a good pope.''
''Rinaldo Conti de Segni''
''Age: 51 Reputation: Quarrelsome 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Gullible +2''
''Rinaldo is one of the younger members of the conclave. An official of the papal curia, he is a cardinal deacon, the lowest rank of cardinal. He is vehement in his opposition to the emperor.''
''Sinibaldo Fieschi''
''Age: 45 Reputation: Indecisive Leader 4 (Church), Lazy 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Slothful +2''
''Sinibaldo is a cardinal priest of San Lorenzo in Lucina, a titular church and minor basilica in Rome. Although he is a dyed-in-the-wool Guelph, Sinibaldo admires the emperor personally. If it weren’t for the muddy waters of politics, he thinks the emperor would make a good friend.''
''Gil Torres''
''Age: 68 Reputation: Open-minded 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Kind +2''
''A cardinal-deacon of Santi Cosma e Damiano, an ancient titular church in Rome, Torres is the sole Spanish cardinal in residence. Of all the Guelphs present, he is the most easily swayed away from his former political attachment. He is also the cardinal most tolerant of wizards and magi.''

==Ghibelline Cardinals==

''Called “Moderates of the Opposition,” these men are against the war while supportive of the emperor. They want to elect a pope who will end the war and, if not magically influenced, they will vote for Goffredo da Castiglione. In general, politically minded magi think that a Ghibelline pope would be harmful to the Order, as he would eventually attach the Church to the Holy Roman Emperor. The best Ghibelline would be Castiglione, who is too frail to do much harm.''
''Rainiero Capocci''
''Age: 69 Reputation: Loyal to Superiors 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Weak-Willed +2''
''Rainiero is a cardinal deacon of Santa Maria in Cosmedin, a minor basilica located south of the Septizodium. He has lived in Rome his entire life, and desperately wants the emperor’s siege to be abandoned permanently. He will capitulate to almost any imperial demand.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Goffredo da Castiglione==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –2, Pre +3(2), Com +2(2), Str –2, Sta –1, Dex –1, Qik –3(1) Size: 0 Age: 65 (65) Decrepitude: 2 (2) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Wealthy; Temporal Influence; Commanding Aura (free); Ambitious, Monastic Vows; Fragile Constitution Personality Traits: Soft-spoken +3 Reputations: Submissive 4 (Church), Frail 4 (Church) Combat: Dodge: Init –3, Attack n/a, Defense +1,''
''Damage n/a Fist: Init –3, Attack +2, Defense 0, Damage –2 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Inc (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (logic), Awareness 2 (architecture), Brawl 3 (dodge), Charm 2 (inferiors), Civil and Canon Law 5 (land ownership), Concentration 2 (sermons), Bargain 3 (future favors), Etiquette 3 (public functions), Folk Ken 3 (Ghibellines), Guile 3 (social inferiors), Hunt 3 (pigeons), Intrigue 6 (vocational ad''
''vantage), Italian 5 (circumlocutory expressions), Latin 5 (church usage), Leadership 7 (priests), Organization Lore: Church 5 (titular buildings), Philosophiae 3 (ethics), Ride 2 (leisure), Teaching 2 (single student), Theology 5 (history) Equipment: Expensive clothes appropriate to his station Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Castiglione is a thin man with a weak chin and a pointy nose. Patches of wispy white hair cover his temples and the back of his head. He is stooped and shallow-shouldered, with an overall dreary appearance.''

|}
''Giovanni Colonna''
''Age: 43 Reputation: Ambitious 4 (Church), Too Connected to His Family 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Ruthless +3''
''Giovanni is more interested in extending his family’s influence in Rome than his personal influence in the Church, although the latter could certainly help the former. His family has been involved with a bitter feud with the Orsini family, and Giovanni is assumed to constantly be in opposition to any Orsini initiative or desire.''
''Robert Somercotes''
''Age: 72 Reputation: Stubborn 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Conservative +3''
''Robert is the cardinal deacon of the church of Santa Eustachio, a titular church and accompanying hospital in Rome. Robert is an Englishman who has remained uninvolved in Italian politics.''
''Stefano dei Conti''
''Age: 65 Reputation: Pacifist 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Sycophant +3''
''The archpriest of the Vatican Basilica and cardinal priest of Santa Maria in Trastevere, Stefano has only slight Ghibelline sympathies. Old age has pacified his nature, and he prefers peace at almost any cost.''

==Absentee Cardinals==

''These men were captured by the emperor on their way to Rome and are thus not in the Septizodium. Instead, they are confined in Apulia with the emperor’s army.''
''Oddone di Monferrato''
''Age: 45 Reputation: Loyal Supporter 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Avoids Conflict +3''
''The cardinal deacon of Saint Nicola in Carcere Tuilliano, Oddone has no political agenda concerning the Guelphs or the Ghibellines and will vote with the majority.''
''Giacomo da Pecorara''
''Age: 47 Reputation: Hardline Guelph 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Resentful +3''
''Da Pecorara is a staunch Guelph and actively despises the emperor. If released from imperial confinement, Giacomo will demand that the cardinals excommunicate the emperor according to the dead pope’s wishes.''
''Peter of Capua the Younger''
''Age: 61 Reputation: Short-Sighted 4 (Church) Personality Traits: Unrealistic +3''
''Peter is the cardinal deacon of Santa Girogio in Velabro, a basilica church located near the Tiber River. Peter can be easily persuaded to vote for the election’s frontrunner, whoever that is at the time of the vote. He has a difficult time understanding what would be good for the Church in the long run.''

==Settings and Locations==

''This story is localized to a few specific areas in Rome and does not explore''
''the entire city. The Septizodium is the main location of the adventure, as the building where the cardinals are sequestered. The Aurelian Walls are the player characters’ introduction to the city, and they may use the Piazza dei Satiri as a temporary headquarters. Both the Colosseum and the Temple of Mercury house antagonists who stay hidden until discovered by the player characters.''

==The City of Rome==

''Rome is divided into four main parts: the crowded shores of the Tiber; the rural vineyard city; the Leonine Walls of the Vatican; and the Trastevere. Like other medieval cities, it is overcrowded and cramped, abundant with merchants, opportunities, and prosperity. Rome is also thick with greed, violence, and filth. The majority of the city’s 35,000 inhabitants live near the Tiber River, along the east bank between the bend at Sant’ Angelo’s and the island, and a little further south on the west bank in a region called Trastevere. Cramped and overcrowded, both regions are filled with winding narrow alleys, busy streets, hawking merchants, penitent pilgrims, bustling clerks, and swaggering nobles. The human tide flows outside Rome’s gates into a suburban sprawl of cottages and small farms that line the old Roman highways. Half of Rome is densely crowded and bustling with activity. The other half of Rome, the vineyard city, is agricultural land, fenced pastures and plotted vineyards, allocated to various parishes and individual farmers. Standing among the hills, one would hardly notice being in a city at all, surrounded by fresh air, grazing goats, and buzzing bees. Small cottages and huts sit haphazardly throughout the area, interspersed with a small parish house here and there, but for the most part, this region of Rome is vacant. Ancient ruins abound in both halves of Rome, sticking up like the bones of a''
''fallen giant. Sections of ruined masonry lay everywhere and many of these have been incorporated into contemporary city life. An ancient temple wall serves as a load-bearing wall for a recent structure. A row of columns serves as a boundary line between two residences, appropriately supporting a line of drying clothes. Other remains have been bricked up and fortified, standing alongside the taller square towers of the noble families. A major pilgrimage destination and housing many holy buildings, Rome has many areas with powerful Divine auras. But Rome is also a busy city, home to many, many people, and, like other large cities in Mythic Europe, it is a conglomeration of supernatural auras pockmarked with regiones. Areas important to this adventure have specific auras listed later, but storyguides can use the following rules of thumb for other auras in Rome. Most streets and buildings along the Tiber have a Divine aura of 3, which dips to 2 at''
''night. The Trastevere, famous for criminal and illegal activities, has a Divine aura of 2 during the day and an Infernal aura of 2 at night (when the Divine aura dips to 1 and the Infernal aura overrides it). The Vatican has a higher Divine aura, perhaps 4 or 5 depending on exact locations. The vineyard city has a Divine aura of 1 throughout the day which disappears at night. Rome has approximately 400 churches, ranging from huge cathedrals to small parish churches, whose Divine auras range from 4 to 9, depending on the church’s importance.''

==The Aurelian Walls==

''The walls that surround Rome were built in the third century, nearly a thousand years ago, although characters would know that information only through magic. Educated characters would know that the walls of the city are mentioned both by Pliny the Elder in his''
''Naturalis Historia, and in the Mirabilia Urbis Romae. Both works describe the walls in different degrees, Pliny writing much earlier than the anonymous author of the Mirabilia, and indeed before the current walls were built, thus possibly confusing the characters. 13th-century Romans know that the walls are ancient, as old as the ruins that serve as the city’s foundation. The walls make a 22-mile circuit around the city, surrounding the Seven Hills of Rome, crossing the Tiber to enclose the Trastevere region and the Leonine City. 150 feet tall and 11 feet thick, the brick-faced concrete wall includes buildings that were standing before its construction, creating a conglomeration of styles and defensive fortifications. In total, 361 towers stand at 100-foot intervals along the wall, which also includes castles, battlements, arches, major gates, and postern gates. Like many medieval cities, the inhabitants’ housing needs have spilled outside its gates, so while the city wall encompasses several square''
''miles, the Roman suburban sprawl extends past the gates and along the main avenues entering the city. The wall has two types of gates: main gates and smaller postern gates. Both main and postern gates are a single arch, made of irregular stones, protected on both left and right sides by brick-faced concrete towers. The difference is size: a postern gate is one-half to one-third the size of a main gate. Because the wall is 11 feet thick, a gate seems like a tunnel running through the wall. For spell effect purposes, the tunnel area within the gate is considered Target: Room. Both the exterior and interior faces of the gate are protected by stout wooden doors and iron portcullises. The main gates have an upstairs room built into the gate, allowing archers to protect the gates through a series of windows. Matteo Orsini’s garrison is not large enough to man such a huge circumference of wall, and it concentrates its energy on staffing the city’s main gates and the castles closest to those gates. Thus there are large expanses of wall that are virtually unprotected. Even if the characters weren’t powerful sorcerers, they could easily find a way into the city.''

==Piazza dei Satiri==

''One of several busy plazas in Rome, this piazza is a typical example of those located in the populated area of the city. Moss-covered ruins and recent fortifications surround armed nobles, peasant workers, and merchants, while a small parish church and a larger church sit nearby. The Piazza dei Satiri is located near the ruins of the Theater of Pompey, which serves as one of the primary fortifications of the Orsini family. Attached stone towers rise above the walls of the theater, overlooking the plaza and the nearby church of Santa Barbara. Several family houses are linked to the towers. With Matteo Orsini’s recent appointment as senator, the family’s fortunes have risen and more structures are being built.''
''Across the plaza from the church is the house of Malgarita Ramberti, one of Alyates’ personae. With its distinctive smell of fish, the two-story wooden building is not large, but it’s enough to serve as both home and fish-selling stall. During the day, Malgarita or one of her employees sells fresh fish. At night, the storefront closes and Malgarita retreats to her private residence upstairs, the very same rooms she has promised to let the player characters use (see later). She has more than one residence, and can easily stay at one of her other shops or at her warehouse located on the Tiber. She promises to make the visitors dinner each evening. The plaza has a Divine aura of 3 during the day, which dips to 2 when the sun sets. The first level of Malgarita’s home is a single large room, with a door from the piazza and a long shuttered window. The shutter folds down into a counter, where Malgarita displays fish to her customers. A stone hearth and chimney rest against the far wall. A ladder can be placed at a trap door in the ceiling that leads to the second level, a windowless attic split into two rooms of equal size. The first room has a wooden table and a few chairs. The second room is her bedroom. A wooden chest holds a few items of female apparel, inexpensive''
''cosmetics, and other personal effects. A fresh, straw-stuffed mattress lies in a corner. With little effort, Malgarita can arrange for more mattresses, depending on the player characters’ desires. The entire building has an overwhelming odor of fish. There is a chance that the player characters will not stay with Malgarita. In that case, you can use this piazza as a setting for other events that transpire, like an attack from Oriens’ minions or Buonacorsus’ mundane allies.''

==The Septizodium==

''The Septizodium, or Temple of the Seven Planetary Divinities, is a threestory stone building that sits at the extreme southeastern slope of the Palatine Hill, overlooking the Via Appia and across the street from the Circus Maximus. Six times wider than it is deep, the ramshackle building’s long axis runs north-south, with an impressive façade covering the eastern side of the building. Three large, parallel alcoves grant access to the building with doorways set at the back of the alcoves. Two long balconies run the length of the eastern façade, lined by marble columns every few feet. Life-sized marble statues stand be''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Vardian’s Tomb==

''Vardian’s Tomb is a covenant located in the rural section of Rome, in a series of the abandoned underground catacombs. It is home to a small number of Ex Miscellanea and Jerbiton magi, most of whom are interested in finding defixiones (see Ancient Magic, page 51). If they have not asked for help, having noticed Alyates and considered him too powerful for them to deal with, they do not figure prominently in this adventure. Even if they have initiated the characters’ involvement in the matter, their aid and support to the player characters is meager. The catacombs are too small to''
''house visitors, and the magi of Vardian’s Tomb instead offer to put the magi up somewhere in town. Use the information describing the Piazza dei Satiri to construct a similar temporary residence for the player characters. All they know about Alyates is that he is Greek, skilled in Mentem magic, and has a sanctum located somewhere in Rome. While interviewing a ghost, a magus of Vardian’s Tomb discovered that Alyates was manipulating the old pope, and his ghostly informant warned that Alyates might be at it again, controlling a cardinal to get to the next pope.''

|}
''tween some of the columns, representations of nymphs, naiads, and other water spirits. Many of these statues are missing a limb or head, or suffer from other wear. Inside the building, stairs lead upwards, granting access to the second and third floors and their exposed balconies. Four exposed stairways lead from the ground floor, through the second and third floor balconies, and exit onto the flat roof. The center alcove leads to the most impressive room. Marble half-columns line the room, the far wall of which supports a stone relief of the seven planets dominating the night sky. This room contains the sequestered cardinals. Wooden tables, chairs, and sleeping cots are supplied for the men. The southern alcove leads to a room of similar size and marble decoration, but without the stone relief. The northern alcove leads to a dilapidated room whose upper floors have collapsed. While the walls still stand, the ceiling is gone. The second and third floors contain two rooms each, now that the northern sections have fallen. All four of these rooms allow access to the columned balconies that line the eastern façade. However, the southern section is separated from the central section by a wall, so that the only way to cross between sections is through a doorway on the ground floor.''
''The Faerie Regio''
''The Septizodium has a Faerie aura of 5. The main room on the ground floor is also a Faerie regio, usually accessible only on nights of the full moon. The regio has a Faerie aura of 7. The regio’s entrance is between a pair of ivy-covered columns sculpted into the relief on the far wall. As they are part of the relief, people cannot physically walk between the pillars — they would walk straight into the stone wall — and the regio is only open at specific times. The divinities can enter and leave the regio at will, bringing those they wish to accompany them, and Hermetic magic can force a way through''
''using the regular rules for regiones. Inside the faerie regio, the landscape is vastly different from the gloomy interior of the Septizodium. Instead of stone ceilings and walls, the regio looks like a small, grassy garden at twilight, encircled by rose-covered bushes and ivy-draped trellises. Romanesque benches are arranged in a pleasant display. The garden has attached enclosures reserved for each divinity’s private affairs.''

==The Colosseum==

''Built on an elliptical floor plan, Colosseum is over 600 feet long and more than 500 feet wide. Much of it is in ruins. The interior is a grassy field, 280 feet long and 180 feet wide, awash with wild flowers that dance in the noontime breeze. Most of the three-story external arcade stands, as does the fourth-story attic. The open-aired, stone tiers used for seating remain, cracked by weeds and spotted with birds’ nests. Much of the interior infrastructure is intact, separated with brick partitions built by the present inhabitants. Below ground lies a complex network of rooms, passages, and cells, previously used to stage and''
''house the many gladiatorial events held in the Colosseum. Many of these underground passages remain, still connected to a sewer and water system that is no longer in use. The southwestern section of the Colosseum has been fortified by the Frangipane family, who use the facility as a power base for their family’s fortunes. The Frangipane family members are Ghibellines, sympathetic to the emperor and often at odds with the pope and the Guelphs, particularly the Orsini family. The eastern section has been used by individuals to make private residences, shoring up sections of the arcades’ arches like seabirds nesting on a cliff face. Anchorites, lunatics, outlaws, and other semi-permanent squatters live tucked among the arches and tunnels that interlace beneath the stone seats. The Colosseum has Infernal, Faerie, and Magic auras, distributed in various locations as determined by past happenings or supernatural incidents. The Frangipane clan’s residences have a small Infernal aura, a consequence of the family’s greed and ambitions. Faerie auras dot the interior field, and on certain nights some faeries recreate''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A Man is his Reputation==

''Much can be gleaned from a man’s Reputation. As storyguide you should be prepared to use the Reputation rules found in ArM5, page 19. Most of the storyguide characters have an Ecclesiastical Reputation. According to the rules, only an ecclesiastic should be allowed to make a stress die + Reputation to see if he has heard of the person in question. However, since the ecclesiastics in question are so important, allow any character to make a Reputation roll. Increase the necessary Ease Factor by 3 for nonecclesiastical characters. For example, a magus from Ireland needs to match an Ease Factor of 15 to have heard of Annibaldi (Whole Church), while a magus from the Lazi region would need a''
''12 (same province), and a magus from Rome would need a 9 (same diocese). If a character has more than one Reputation players should check for each Reputation individually. It could happen that a character knows one Reputation about a man and not a second. For simplicity, allow Buonacorsus to accurately scry on any Roman character with a Reputation of 5 or higher, using his Sortes Virgilianae Ability. This includes most of the cardinals. He will likely fail in his attempts to gain information about the magi, and you can assume he does. If you own Rival Magic, however, you can make attempts using the rules on page 53.''

|}
''specific stories, like tossing Christians to the lions or the gladiatorial combats of Emperor Caligula. Buonacorsus’ residence is in one of the few Magic auras of the building, three rooms sitting one after another against to the outer wall of the third-floor arcade. Accessed via a stairway running from the seats to a tunnel whose other exits have been bricked up, Buonacorsus has lived in these rooms for several years. The first room is an antechamber, where he receives the few visitors he entertains, lined with musty couches, dirty dishes, and half-empty casks of wine. The second room is his bedroom, brimming with personal artifacts that are more sentimental than valuable, and the final room is his laboratory, where he has invented his many rites and awakened the stone naiad statue. All three rooms are in a Magic aura of 3. A secret door in the floor leads from the laboratory to the corridor below, which has several exits.''

==The Temple of Mercury==

''Across from the Colosseum and the Septizodium, almost three-quarters of the way up the slope of the Aventine Hill, is the Temple of Mercury. Long abandoned, it is no longer adorned with apotropaic herms and statues of the Roman god. The roof is cracked and portions of the temple have fallen down. Only half of the marble columns stand, hidden behind clinging vines and overgrown weeds. From a short distance away, it looks like nothing more than another pile of weedy rubble, indistinct from the hundreds of similar piles littering the vineyard section of Rome. But beneath the cracked marble floor lies a secret. Hundreds of years ago, the basement of the Temple of Mercury was used to store votive offerings to the god of commerce, and as a meeting place for the few Cult of Mercury members who lived in Rome. The temple ceased to be used after the Ostrogoth siege of Rome''
''in 546, lying in ruins until explored by Bonisagus in the eighth century. Forgotten again, it has lain fallow until rediscovered by Alyates several years ago. Since then, he has made it his home, appreciating the Magic aura of 3 in a city full of Divine and Faerie auras. Alyates left the ruined temple alone and concentrated on the rooms beneath. A dilapidated stairway leads down to a clean, spacious, stone room. A single wooden door leads to a lavishly decorated room, half living quarters and half laboratory. Spontaneous Imaginem spells keep the air fresh, scented with lavender, and spontaneous Ignem spells keep the room well lit. The room is protected by a level 30 Aegis of the Hearth spell, annually cast from a casting tablet that Alyates keeps among his personal treasures. The site is not marked with a sanctum marker; as far as anyone knows Alyates died in Constantinople in 1204.''

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''The adventure asks the player characters to enter Rome, specifically the Septizodium, and purposefully meddle in mundane affairs. This is not oath-breaking, which stipulates that meddling is forbidden if it “brings ruin to our sodales.” In this case, the storyguide must impress upon the magi that not interfering may bring ruin upon the Order. The magi are not asked to pick a pope, merely to protect the cardinals from supernatural manipulation so that they can select a pope using their own mental faculties. To get the magi involved, someone has to tell them what is happening in the Septizodium. Because of the supernatural involvement in this high-stakes game, this is easy to accomplish. Someone attached to one of the interested parties asks the magi to help protect the cardinals. Connecting this agent to a''
''magus’ Story Flaw is an excellent idea, and you are encouraged to warp the following suggestions so that seem palatable to your players. The player characters should only know about one threat at first: Oriens, the Planetary Divinities, Alyates, or Buonacorsus. They discover the other threats and how convoluted the deliberations are once inside the Septizodium. If you favor a subtle approach, let the player characters do some of the work. Have the magi notice that the Magic aura that surrounds their covenant dips a point, for a day or two, before returning to normal. Investigation shows that other nearby auras area also fluctuating, ever so slightly, and people start having prophetic dreams that something is terribly amiss. Some great decision must be made, claim the awakened dreamers, but who, where, and what is a mystery. Let the player character fret and fiddle about, although if they have the means to enter dreams or question auras then they discover that the auras are fluctuating because the cardinals’ supernatural manipulators are warring. When one gains an advantage in the number of needed votes, the other auras dip. The manipulators don’t know they are doing this; this is Mythic Europe responding to an incredibly important decision. A pope affiliated with a realm other than the Divine may permanently alter every aura in Mythic Europe. A more direct approach is to have an agent arrive and ask the player characters to intervene, telling them that something is wrong inside the Septizodium, and asking them to check it out and protect the cardinals. Who this agent is depends on your group.''
''•	 A divine agent arrives and asks the magi to help. Perhaps the magi have done something immoral and are looking for redemption. Perhaps they are paragons of virtue and regularly receive visiting angels. Perhaps a character’s Guardian Angel steps forward; perhaps it is St Nerius''
''who strides into the covenant seeking aid. The agent does not have to be supernatural. A nearby priest or bishop might know what is going on and ask the magi for help. A divine agent tells the magi about Oriens and that one of the cardinals is a diabolist. The prospect of an infernal pope should terrify most Christians, who firmly believe that the Holy Father is the right hand of God. The idea of setting a diabolist on the papal throne is an abomination. •	 A demon arrives, possessing a covenant character and informing the group that another demon is active in Rome. Demons are short-sighted and hold grudges, especially against each other. One of Oriens’ enemies acts against Oriens, hoping to thwart the cardinal demon’s plan. Between head-spinning and vomiting iron nails, the possessed character tells the magi that a diabolist is ready to assume the papal throne, and once successful every non-Infernal aura in Mythic Europe will dim. The possessed character cackles as it says that the first order of business of the diabolist pope will be to declare the Order of Hermes heretics, and allow the princes of northern Mythic Europe to crusade against the magi. •	 A faerie agent arrives, one somehow''
''connected to the covenant or a residing character. The faerie tells the magi that the planetary divinities are selecting the pope, and giggles with glee. Churches will disappear, replaced by pagan temples. The great faerie powers will return and rule the world. Unless the planetary divinities are stopped, and this would please the faerie agent even more. If the faerie and the covenant have tangled before, defeating the planetary divinities’ chosen man will resolve the faerie-covenant conflict. •	 A magic agent arrives, most likely another member of the Order of Hermes but other options are available. It all depends on the characters’ pasts and the players’ future goals for their characters. If a magus wants to become a Quaesitor or a hoplite, then a Guernicus magus arrives and tells the magi about Alyates and his suspected involvement with the past pope. Is he involved in delaying the decision? Or, a maga from a Roman covenant of Vardian’s Tomb asks for help, saying that she thinks a Hermetic magus is interfering in the conclave but feels out of her league in dealing with the problem. If the player characters have previously encountered Virgilian wizards then the agent says that another is med''
''dling with the papal conclave. The player characters will probably be reluctant to interfere, and the requestor must stress that involvement is not interference. The pope is a powerful man with vast resources. Controlling him would give Alyates or the Virgilian wizard a powerful advantage over their enemies, who the requestor insists would eventually be the Order of Hermes, present company included.''
''Use any other angle that pressures the magi into action, including character Story Flaws and covenant Hooks and Boons. Tell them what will happen if they do nothing: a diabolist will be elected pope and lead a crusade against the Order, a faerie puppet pope will bring a return of pagan worship and pagan powers, a rival wizard will eventually lead the emperor against the Order of Hermes, and a meddling Hermetic with a pope on a string could ruin the Order as well.''

==Approaching Rome==

''Powerful wizards have fantastic ways of traveling and may have the means to instantly travel to Rome. Those who rely on more conventional means of''
''travel — like the perfectly acceptable walking — encounter the Holy Roman Emperor’s troops. The soldiers have blocked every major road leading to Rome. Originally stationed to lay siege to the city, most of the troops have retreated to Apulia. A few large groups are stationed along the roads to capture any cardinals summoned to the papal conclave, but the troops aren’t expecting any more cardinals at this point. Most people, the imperial troops included, are waiting for the College of Cardinals to select a new pope. Regular clergy, pilgrims, merchants, and other travels are not unduly harassed. Have your players make a Perception + Awareness + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 6. If they succeed, their characters see the imperial troops lazing alongside the road before the troops see them. Failing this roll means that the soldiers see the characters at the same time that the characters see the soldiers, and botching this roll means that the characters inadvertently walk into the imperial troop’s camp. On the eve of the siege, the emperor had nearly five thousand men stationed around Rome. Currently the imperial army is a hodge-podge collection of foreign mercenaries and vassal German and Neapolitan nobles’ troops. The magi encounter one such group, a battalion of two hundred soldiers led by fifteen Neapolitan knights. The knights are either enjoying the day with a nearby hunt or a lunchtime siesta, depending on what time of day it is, leaving the actual work to the soldiers. The soldiers are tired and bored. Ordered to capture cardinals, the soldiers let other parties pass, especially now that the emperor wants to act friendly toward the Roman citizens. As long as the group doesn’t look rich and are not traveling in style, the soldiers let them pass after answering some mandatory questions. Ask the group’s spokesman for a Presence + Charm + stress die roll. Remember the –3 penalty to social rolls if the character has the Gift. If the roll succeeds against an Ease Factor of 6 the''
''group can pass. Failure means that the soldiers need to bring their superiors into the discussion, meaning a delay more than any real trouble. Of course, this depends how the player characters react. If the player botches the roll the soldiers think the group contains a disguised cardinal and move to arrest them, calling for help as they press forward. The magi cannot know that the soldiers will not molest them and may take preventative measures. Twenty soldiers stand by the road with another 100 loitering in a nearby camp, making two distinct groups. If the knights are not hunting they are also in the camp. If a magus wants to affect all the soldiers by the road with a single spell, the Target must be Group (10 individuals) with an additional Magnitude included (to affect 100 individuals). Boosting the spell by an additional Magnitude, to affect 1000 individuals, won’t work in this case because the two groups aren’t physically close enough to count as a single distinct group.''

==Crossing the Porta==

''Rome has several gates, which are open during the day and closed at night.''
''The main gates are guarded by a garrison of twenty soldiers, professional men-at-arms in the employ of one of several powerful Roman noble families. Currently Rome is controlled by the Orsini family and the main gates of the city are protected by Orsini men. Several wealthy families dominate Roman politics in the thirteen century, their fortunes waxing and waning as they vie against one another for control. Although important to a saga set in Rome, these political vicissitudes are not important to this adventure. The guards know that the emperor has called off the siege. Like their adversaries, they wait for the College of Cardinals to select the next pope. They are naturally concerned about the outcome — an aggressive pope means a return to the siege, while a moderate pope means an end to the current conflict — but until the cardinals choose their man the guards have little to do. While the siege is on hiatus the city operates as usual and the guards monitor the steady flow of traffic. The soldiers notice armed men and step out of the shadowy gateway to bar their path. Scanning the strangers with their eyes, the Orsini guards are looking''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Sigils==

''Magic leaves a mark called a sigil, which is specific to an individual. Alyates’ sigil is a short burst of purple light in the targeted area and Carbonius’ sigil is a chilling shiver along the spine. Buonacorsus also has a sigil — although his tradition doesn’t call it that — the heavy scent of lavender. Alyates can use his Shroud Magic spell to change his sigil, but he can only do this on spells that are level 40 or lower. If he thinks his magic is being watched he changes the sigil. If Alyates sees one of the player character magi casting a spell and notices the sigil, he will change his sigil into that sigil when he uses spells on the cardinals. While he could change his sigil to resemble Buona''
''corsus’, he does not know it. To recognize who a specific sigil belongs to requires an Intelligence + Order of Hermes + stress die roll. The Ease Factor depends on how wide spread this information is in your saga. If sigils are generally kept to a small group of people, witnesses and covenant members, then the Ease Factor should be quite high (12). If the Order of Hermes keeps careful notation and records of sigil and their owners, the Ease Factor should be lower (9). If your player character magi are from a House that is more likely to keep this information — Houses Mercere, Bonisagus, and Guernicus perhaps — the Ease Factor should be even lower (6).''

|}
''for imperial soldiers, men who might serve as the emperor’s spies. They generally know their enemy, and even though the imperial army is not homogenous, the Roman guards have encountered enough distinct groups serving the empire to recognize them. They can tell a Guelph from a Ghibelline on a Perception + Folk Ken + simple roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Use the stats for a Standard Soldier (ArM5, page 22) for the Orsini guards. If this roll succeeds the guards are able to tell that the character is not a Ghibelline. The characters should have little problem with the guards. If they attempt to cast spells, they instantly notice the difficulty imposed by Rome’s Divine aura of 3. Once past the guards the characters will cross through the gatehouse and possible trigger the Augustan rite A Murderous Assault Will Befall You. Every magus considers himself “a member of the Order of Hermes”, the rite’s complicated trigger, as may others: Redcaps and possibly some custos and companions. If the rite penetrates any Magic Resistance the trigger’s initiator might have, 500 crows rise from their roosts and mob the gatehouse’s entrance into the city, diving and cawing and creating an incredibly loud clamor that can be heard throughout the city. The rite’s enchantment only has a Duration: Diameter and the crows fly off at that point, uninterested. Buonacorsus cast this rite on each of Rome’s twelve gates and five posterns. If the rite doesn’t penetrate a magus’ Parma Magica then the magus will feel his Parma Magica stop the spell, indicating that it just resisted active magic. Clever players will ask questions and investigate the rite. A Murderous Assault Will Befall You is an 11th magnitude effect, fairly simple to find with an Intellego Vim spell (base effect 1). Correctly casting such a spell indicates that the rite is Magical, its magnitude, and the approximate Technique and Form (Rego Animal). Such a spell also shows that while Magical, the effect is''
''not Hermetic. While cacophonous, this scene isn’t dangerous, and the player characters should handily deal with the crows. This rite signals to Buonacorsus that a magus has just entered the city. Buonacorsus fears that his mundane enemies have magical allies and cast the rite to warn him if any wizards enter the city. If the characters use other means to enter the city, like Rego Corpus spells that instantly transport them, they will miss both the encounter with the soldiers and the crows at the gate. Most likely they proceed directly to the Septizodium. This encounter is not essential, but does introduce a different kind of magic and the presence of other interested parties. You should somehow warn player characters that a Virgilian wizard is plotting against the cardinals. One possibility is to find an excuse for one of the party to leave through a gate on some quick excursion; the magic works whether the character is coming or going. You could also use the enchanted statue in the Septizodium as an indicator of the Augustan Brotherhood’s involvement (see later).''

==Outside the Septizodium==

''From the gatehouse the magi should proceed directly to the Septizodium. It is easy to find and, due to the recent events, anyone can direct the magi to the building. The first thing they notice is the 500 crows roosting on the building’s roof and upper balconies. Armed guards can be seen in the plaza in front of the building and a sizable crowd mills around wondering if the cardinals will reach a decision. Orsini’s guards keep a tight watch on the Septizodium, preventing the eleven cardinals from leaving the building and prohibiting visitors. Matteo Orsini has ordered restricted rations for the cardinals, who remain thirsty and dangerously underfed. One meal is delivered''
''at noon, consisting mostly of cheese, bread, and weak wine. The cardinals are denied even the most minor human decencies. Without chamber pots the men must urinate and defecate in a corner of their room, the same room they use for sleeping, eating, and deciding the next pope. Orsini’s guards restrict the front entrances and patrol the roof, using the external staircases to avoid the building’s interior. The guards know about the cardinals’ deliberations, having heard them repeatedly screamed from one cardinal to another. While Latin is the lingua franca of the Church, most of the deliberations are spoken in Italian. The guards, as well as most citizens living nearby, know the state of things inside the building, making it easy for the player characters to get accurate information. The four Guelphs, Riccardo Annibaldi, Rinaldo Conti de Segni, Gil Torres, and Sinibaldo Fieschie, want to elect Romano Bonaventura, who will continue the struggle against the emperor. The three Ghibellines, Giovanni Colonna, Rainiero Capocci, and Robert Somercotes, favor Goffredo da Castiglione, who will not oppose the emperor. Two cardinals, Tommaso da Capua and Stefano dei Conti, did not have strong convictions either way. The winner needs a two-thirds majority, or eight out of the eleven votes. Most Romans thought that the Guelphs would win and elect Bonaventura. The debate hung in stalemate for a week, until Annibaldi announced that he wanted to be pope and stopped supporting Bonaventura. Soft-spoken Tommaso da Capua did the same, declaring that he should be pope. The soldiers overheard Guelphs voting for Ghibellines and Ghibellines voting for Guelphs, and then heard the situation reversed the next day. Where at first they thought a Guelph would win, now they don’t think anyone will. To unlock the stalemate, Colonna and Somercotes demand that Matteo Or''
''sini instruct the emperor to release the three captured cardinals. This “conversation” happens in the morning, shouted from the interior to Orsini standing in the street. Thus far Orsini has told them to decide themselves. The crowd thins after lunch is delivered, and is smallest during the afternoon, the hottest part of the day. It grows larger again toward evening, when the cardinals make their daily vote. They vote once each day, writing their choice on small slips of parchment and letting one member of the group read the results. The crowd waits for a winner to be declared. If nothing happens by dusk, the crowd disperses, realizing that another day has passed without a decision being made. As the characters survey the scene, they may notice a woman fishmonger bringing a meal to the guards. The woman notices the magi unless they have take careful steps to remain hidden. This is Alyates, in his Malgarita persona. Even if they are hidden Alyates had a good chance of noticing the player characters. His Visions Flaw has already indicated that other magi will interfere with his plan and his Premonitions Virtue rings like a bell once he is close to the player characters. Alyates has a plan and is in the middle of following it through. As the player characters arrive, Alyates has manipulated Bonaventure to take his first Arcane Connection to another cardinal, a slipper belonging to Sinibaldo Fieschi, and made Bonaventura decide to throw the slipper off the upper balcony. Alyates is waiting for Bonaventura to appear and toss the slipper to the plaza below, where she hopes to scoop it up. Noticing the player characters disturbs the magus and he abandons his plan. The player character may notice Bonaventura casting a slipper to the plaza below on a Perception + Awareness + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9. On a truly spectacular roll, 15 or higher, the character also notices a particularly large crow watching Bo''
''naventura. This is the demon Oriens, although the character won’t know it at the time. Alyates has no idea who the player characters are — unless they have Reputations within the Order of Hermes — and decides that the best way to investigate them is to interrogate any mundane companions they have in tow. He wants to know if the magi are after him. Disguised as Malgarita, he approaches the magi and offer to sell them a fish lunch. Pretending to notice that they are foreigners, she then offers them a room above her shop, at a very convenient price. If they refuse she casts a minor Mentem spell to influence one of the mundane character’s decisions. Even with no voice and gestures and in a Divine aura Alyates should be able to cast Meet Me at Midnight on one of the characters, telling the character to meet her later, alone. She retreats to the shadows and waits for the character to slip away from the group. The aura directly outside the Septizodium is a Divine aura of 1. If Alyates is successful he convinces the player characters to stay with Malgarita in the Piazza dei Satiri. Malgarita Ramberti will provide a quick background for the characters. She is a lonely fishwife who has had some success with three shops and three employees. She''
''asks that she still be allowed to sell fish from the first-floor window, but if the characters insist, she can cease for the time being. She purposefully plays with a small bone hanging from a necklace, and if asked she says that it is a finger bone of St Jerome, her most prized possession. It is actually just a finger bone, but Alyates hopes that mentioning this relic will suggest to the magi that Malgarita has Magic Resistance and in this way he can keep his Parma Magica activated while he interacts with the characters. With the player characters relaxed and off guard, Malgarita tries to take items that serve as short-term Arcane Connections to the player magi’s mundane staff. This is merely to keep tabs on the magi and she will not risk discovery if acquiring an Arcane Connection proves too difficult. Malgarita leaves each morning, first to go to the Temple of Mercury and use the Cup of Carbonius to cast spells to control Bonaventura, then to the plaza in hopes of retrieving Arcane Connections. His success depends on what the player character magi do. If they do nothing, he gets one Arcane Connection to a cardinal each day, and in a week has Arcane Connections to enough cardinals to elect Bonaventura pope. If he has an Arcane Connection to the magi’s staff he uses it to watch the magi. However, he won’t take the Cup of''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Buonacorsus’ Animation==

''The Animations of the Augustan Brotherhood are Magic Things, even though they are mere shadows of true Magic Creatures. The animation hidden in the Septizodium does not have the power of original thought, even though it has been awakened, nor can it move. It has a single power that must be triggered by someone else, like an enchanted item. The power has a Penetration of 21.''
''Magic Might: 15 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0''
''Soak: +10 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Destroyed (16+) Abilities: Awareness 3 (watching for signals), Penetration 5 (School of Prometheus effects) Powers: Summer’s Sweltering Heat, (see Buonacorsus’ rites) Appearance: The marble statue is a nude naiad standing poised as if for a dance leap, with arms raised above its head. Its left eye is solid gold and its right eye is solid silver.''

|}
''Carbonius out of his sanctum in the Temple of Mercury. After casting his spells on Bonaventura, Alyates spies on the magi if he can. After watching them for a few minutes he decides whether he should continue or not, based on what they do. If they get too close to him, he will abandon his efforts and retreat from the city. If the magi arrive in the morning, there is a chance that they notice Buonacorsus triggering the enchanted statue from the Colosseum (see later: The Animation).''

==Inside the Septizodium==

''Getting inside the Septizodium should be almost effortless for the magi. Of the six available rooms inside the building, the cardinals only use the two on the ground floor and two on the second floor. Day after day the men spend most of their time enduring the atrocious heat, complaining about their''
''conditions, and bickering. The cardinals know that they are the only people who are supposed to be in the building, but in their captivity they abandon normal protocol and speak with intruders, especially if those intruders’ hands are full of bread and wine. Each day at noon several servants bring lunch into the building, and characters could easily slip in disguised as servants.''
''First Impressions''
''Inside the scene is disastrous. The building is hot and stinks of human cohabitation. Flies buzz everywhere. The eleven men, half of them older than 60, have stripped to their underwear, their regular clothing tossed in corners. Some bicker and complain with each other, some lie listlessly about fanning themselves, other yell invectives at the guards. All wait for lunch to arrive, and when it does they hustle toward it to''
''gather their share of the food. Scuffles have erupted as the portions diminish. After lunch, sometimes after an afternoon nap, the cardinals vote. An argument typically follows. The four leading candidates mill about their colleagues petitioning votes, conversations which are easily overheard. Annibaldi promises wealth and fortune to those who vote for him, also suggesting that he could make life quite difficult for those who oppose him. Tommaso quotes Greek philosophers and references famous Greek myths in his persuasions. Bonaventura rails against the emperor and says that it is each cardinal’s duty to vote for him. Castiglione complains about the heat — he is the frailest of the group — and meekly promises to make peace with the emperor to preserve the tranquility of the Church. The invisible planetary divinities lounge around the perimeter of the room, enjoying every squabble. While invisible they are not incorporeal, and pinch and poke those they don’t like. To see the faeries requires a successful Perception + Second Sight + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 14 or a level 40 Intellego Imaginem spell (base 20, +4 Vision). As eager spectators the faerie instantly notice new participants in their game, especially if the magi cast obvious spells. Having already noticed the sigil displayed when Alyates casts a spell on Bonaventura, the planetary divinities assume that the player character magi are the wizards targeting the Guelph. Clandestinely, away from the cardinals if possible, they reveal themselves to the magi and say that it isn’t fair that they have appeared on the scene. The other manipulators are using proxies and they should too. The magi won’t know what this means but the planetary divinities explain that they, a demon, and obviously the magi are all trying to control the election through their proxies, and by arriving inside the building the magi aren’t being fair. That fact that the''
''planetary divinities are not always acting through their proxy is lost on the faeries. They are more interested in the play than the results. They know that Bonaventura is the cardinal targeted by the wizard, who is also controlling the heat in the room (this is incorrect), and that a demon has been seen hovering around the balcony. They don’t know who the demon or his proxy is. They don’t know why the heat decreases when Castiglione pulls ahead in the vote. They readily admit all these facts. If Alyates suspects that the magi have entered the Septizodium he runs to the Temple of Mercury and casts Forcing the Undecided’s Decision on Bonaventure to suggest that the cardinal stand near the magi and watch them. When this happens Bonaventura’ eyes will flash with purple light, Alyates’ sigil, and depending on where the magi are they may notice this. Alyates then casts Borrow the Eyes of Another to see what the magi are doing. If Bonaventura has successfully maneuvered his way near the magi, they may see this second spell’s sigil. Watching won’t do Alyates much good and he might decide to cease Borrow the Eyes of Another and cast Borrow the Ears of Another, giving the magi a third chance to see his sigil. Seeing the sigil is relatively easy by this point, but recognizing it is a different matter. Suggestions on recognizing sigils are in the insert: Sigils. If Buonacorsus hears the magi enter the city then he triggers his Animation. Every cardinal inside must make a Deprivation check at mid-afternoon (see later). This magical effect has a Penetration total of 21. It is an Ignem equivalent effect for determining whether it penetrates the magi’s Magic Resistance. However, magi notice the cardinals groan under the heat, and they may check for active magic using Intellego Vim spells. To determine the magnitude of Buonacorsus’ rites, divide the rite’s Ease Factor by 3. Oriens is also watching the magi, either in his undetectable spiritual form''
''or the form of a crow. Perdo Vim magic chills his spine, even though the magi have no way of harming Oriens at this stage of the game. Like every demon, Oriens must first be detected before he can be destroyed (see Realms of Power: Infernal, page 33). Oriens doesn’t explicitly know this, but being the accomplished deceiver that he is, he is accustomed to hiding behind the curtain and acting through agents, in this case his diabolical cardinal servant. The four Ghibellines and the three Guelphs readily admit that they change their votes often, although none of them understand why. Some remember dreams, while others may reluctantly admit to slight bribes and threats. Let players make Perception + Folk Ken rolls after watching each of the cardinals. Success against an Ease Factor of 9 lets the characters know the cardinals dominant Personality Trait, which might shed light on their activities. The four main candidates do not change their votes and continually vote for themselves. As the magi spend the day observing and interacting with the cardinals, let the players make Reputation rolls for each man they meet.''
''The Animation''
''Sitting on the northeast corner of the third floor balcony is a stone statue of a nude naiad. Sculpted to appear similar to the other statues, this is a recent addition, commissioned and enchanted by Buonacorsus. Awakened through a process of Virgilian magic, the Animation has the single power to make the interior of the Septizodium hot and humid. The Animation cannot move and is positioned so that its gaze runs up the slope of the Palatine Hill toward the Colosseum. To trigger the item, Buonacorsus leaves his secret hideout in the Colosseum, climbs to the top of the arcade, and waves a white cloth. If the animation sees the white cloth it activates''
''its single power; the animation successfully sees the cloth on a Perception + Awareness + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 12. The Animation’s sight is limited by natural conditions and cannot see the Colosseum in the dark. Intellego magic will certainly pick out this statue, as it is the only enchanted statue on the balconies. It is easier to find the statue when its magical effect is activated, but even if searched for before Buonacorsus triggers the Animation, it shouldn’t be hard for an experienced magus. Careful observation may also work. On an Awareness + Perception + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 12 the observer notices that the only statue not facing the Via Appia is the Animation. Finally, if the timing is right, succeeding with an Awareness + Perception roll against an Ease Factor of 15 allows the observing character to see a figure waving a white cloth in the statue’s direction. Looking back, Buonacorsus can examine the balcony with a successful Perception + Awareness + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If he fails this roll he assumes that the coast is clear and will trigger the effect about an hour after sunrise, after he has performed a divination to see how the vote is going. The Animation’s effect can be lethal, over time and against a frail or elderly occupant, but will probably only inconvenience the player characters. A Perdo Vim spell removes the effect, which should be considered an eighth magnitude spell for purposes of determining what level the Perdo Vim spell needs to be. Destroying the statue would also do the job. The statue can be physically removed from the balcony, and the easiest method is to push it over the railing. If it is pushed, determine damage by rolling a stress die + 18 (approximately a 36 foot fall) against the animation’s Soak (+10) + a stress die. The animation continues to function if “wounded” but not if it is destroyed. If the statue is removed, Buonacorsus can no longer affect the''
''cardinals. His magic is too time-consuming to create additional rites and he has exhausted his arsenal with those he has already cast. If the player characters cease at this point, having dealt with the Animation and perceiving no new threats, the cardinals are still in danger. Buonacorsus’ rite to bring down the building, Suffer the Judgment of Jericho, is still waiting to be triggered.''
''The Afternoon Vote and Evening''
''After lunch the cardinals debate a little bit more. If Buonacorsus knows the magi are in Rome then he has activated his Animation, which quiets most of the debate. Annibaldi uses his Corruption Supernatural Ability to influence those he speaks with, and by spending a Confidence Point he can instill a Personality Trait. He uses the environment’s discomfort to his advantage, making it psychologically more bearable to those who agree to vote for him. This same power allows him to make his enemies even more uncomfortable. Personality Traits that might psychologically ease a sufferer’s heat exhaustion grant the character a +1 to the Deprivation check forced by Buonacorsus’ statue. The reverse is also true, and characters under an imposed negative Personality Trait receive a –1 penalty to the check. After Deprivation checks have been made, the characters hear the crowd chanting for the cardinals to vote. Slowly they rouse themselves and vote, writing their choice on slips of cheap parchment. The four main candidates vote for themselves and the other seven votes are divided. Three of main contenders rail against their colleges, Castiglione being the only one who returns quietly to his cot. After the vote one cardinal drops to the floor, drooling and raving like a madman. A character who can see the planetary divinities will see one of them''
''approach the cardinal and touch him, inflicting him with the faerie’s Affliction of Heavenly Insanity power. The cardinal had promised to vote for Tommaso and then didn’t, and the faerie is punishing the man’s disloyalty. When the effect ends, at sunset, the man will confess to inquiring characters that he had promised the sun faerie to vote for Tommaso but then changed his mind. After sunset the cardinals retire for the night. Annibaldi sneaks away to the balcony. At midnight Annibaldi must prove his devotion to Oriens by sacrificing a few drops of his own blood. If he fails to perform this rite he gains five pounds at dawn. Both the cuts and the weight gain can reveal Annibaldi as the diabolist. Annibaldi knows that he will gain weight if he doesn’t perform the blood sacrifice, but also knows that letting someone see him cut himself will reveal his infernal allegiance. Let a player make a Perception + Awareness + stress die roll each day after the diabolist misses a night of cutting himself. If the roll meets or exceeds an Ease Factor of 15 the character notices the additional weight. Annibaldi heads upstairs to the balcony. If he is not followed he cuts his thigh and whispers his devotion to Oriens while the blood runs down his leg. If he thinks someone is following him he will not go. If Annibaldi makes his sacrifice Oriens appears, in the shape of a huge crow, and lands on the balcony’s edge. Tired of waiting, the demon tells his disciple to poison one of the cardinals. Somercotes has regularly resisted Annibaldi’s petitions and Oriens tells Annibaldi to poison the English cardinal’s food. Annibaldi agrees. During the night the faeries enter the cardinals’ dreams. To those who can see the planetary divinities, it appears as if one of the faeries leaps into the air and shrinks as it falls and disappears inside the sleeping cardinal’s head. In the cardinal’s dreams the faerie promises the cardinal benefits if he will vote for Tommaso, typically offering to''
''permanently increase a Characteristic, up to +5. This power works on a Characteristic reduced by Aging Points. If this doesn’t work, a faerie can threaten the dreamer by making them insane for a day, or more permanently reduce a Characteristic. In the morning, each man must decide if he will or will not vote for Tommaso. Those who do will receive a Characteristic increase, those who promise to and don’t suffer an evening of insanity. At night, the player characters must decide what to do, either sleep somewhere in the Septizodium or somewhere else. Oriens does not like Hermetic involvement. If the player characters leave the building at night, perhaps returning to Malgarita’s shop to sleep, the demon sends a team of his minion demons after them to ambush them on the street. He won’t become involved personally at this point and remains at the Septizodium watching his underling. Use this possibly dangerous interlude to break up the overall social nature of the adventure.''
''Continued Deliberations''
''Each day progresses as those before it. The leading candidates petitioning their fellows, shuffle to lunch, toss through an afternoon nap, vote indecisively, argue, and then go to bed. By now the magi should understand the situation and act to remove the interfering party that they were initially requested to stop. They should at this point realize that other parties are controlling the cardinals too. They might want to stop all supernatural manipulations. The faeries are difficult to remove, the demon dangerous, and the storyguide wizards absent, although the player characters can at least end Buonacorsus’ heat wave by destroying the Animation. The demon, diabolists, and Alyates react to the magi’s involvement. Annibaldi suggests that some of the cardinals''
''walk to the upper balcony to escape the heat and stench of the building. He kindly assists them. On the balcony, Oriens waits to talk to the cardinal. The demon is an expert shape-changer and can assume the form of anyone he chooses. There is no Hermetic way to see though this disguise, which perfectly imitates a person’s look, sound, and smell. Divine Virtues and Supernatural Abilities may stand a chance based on the specific Virtue or Ability. Physical mannerisms may give Oriens away, and a player can make a Perception + Awareness + stress die against an Ease Factor of 18 to notice subtle imperfections in the impersonated person’s manner, stance, and gestures. In the guise of a fellow dignitary, Oriens targets the cardinal with his Trust of the Innocent power, forcing the cardinal to believe Annibaldi. As Oriens talks with cardinals upstairs, Annibaldi readies the second part of his plan. When lunch is delivered Annibaldi offers to bring one of the elder cardinals his lunch. As he puts the food on a plate he will discretely poison it. The poison is fatal, equivalent to an asp’s bite (ArM5, page 180). Pick one of the elder Ghibelline cardinals besides Castiglione, starting with Somercotes. If Annibaldi succeeds he poisons another the next day, hoping to remove the Ghibellines one after another, ending with Castiglione. After two days of this ploy, Annibaldi and Oriens convince all of the cardinals other than the leaders to vote for Annibaldi. Alyates gets frantic once other magi become involved. He is convinced that the magi know that he was manipulating the old pope to fight against the emperor. While collecting Arcane Connections from cardinals might not be breaking the Code of Hermes, manipulating Bonaventura while he is electing a pope definitely is. Alyates is no longer content to collect one Arcane Connection a day, and instructs Bonaventura to collect as many as he can. Each time''
''this suggestion is implanted in Bonaventura’s consciousness, Alyates’ sigil flashes. Bonaventura then takes articles of clothing from the cardinals and toss them from the balcony. In his Malgarita persona Alyates scrambles around the plaza snatching up falling Arcane Connections. He knows when the vote will be cast and retreats to his sanctum prior to that to cast spells on those to whom he has an Arcane Connection. Player characters watching the voting would then see each cardinal’s eyes flash purple, as Alyates implants the suggestion in each to vote for Bonaventura. There isn’t much Buonacorsus can do except activate his Animation, fret, and hope for a Ghibelline pope, preferable Castiglione. He activates his Animation in the morning. The Animation’s effect makes the building smells like lavender, Buonacorsus’ sigil.''
''Forcing the Election''
''Tired of waiting, Orsini halves the cardinals’ food and water rations a few days after the player characters enter the Septizodium. He threatens to stop sending food by the week’s end. Everything should intensify and the added pressure should cause some cardinals to break and vote for anyone just to get out of the Septizodium. At the end of the week, if a decision still hasn’t been made, Orsini agrees to the pleas for additional cardinals. Orsini carries the cardinals’ petitions to the emperor, who releases the three cardinals from captivity and adds them to those already in the Septizodium. If the magi have successfully dealt with Oriens, Alyates, and the planetary divinities, the new cardinals tip the scales to the Gregorian’s side. Within a few days Bonaventura is elected pope. If the player characters have not stopped Buonacorsus, Bonaventura and the assembled cardinals leaving the Septizodium triggers the rite Suffer the Judgment of Jericho and the building comes tumbling down.''
''The player characters have seconds to react to save the new pope. Have the group roll for initiative. The storyguide rolls a stress die to determine the rite’s initiative. Magi can use the fast cast defense rules to react before the building topples. Unfamiliar with Virgilian magic, the players are not allowed a roll to determine the magic’s Form, however the toppling stone building should be enough of an indication as to what Hermetic Forms might help the cardinals. Suffer the Judgment of Jericho is a seventh magnitude effect, requiring a fourth magnitude spell (level 20) to save the cardinals. The question isn’t power but speed; can the magi react in time to save the cardinals?''

==Catching Alyates==

''Alyates keeps appearing in his personae as long as it serves him. Player characters may notice Bonaventura’s repeated trips to the balcony to discard articles of clothing. They may also see the fishwife rushing around the plaza trying to catch the articles. Once he has Arcane Connections to seven cardinals — in addition to the Arcane Connection he has to Bonaventura — he abandons his persona and retreats to the Temple of Mercury. Player characters who notice Malgarita early could follow her to the Temple of Mercury and confront Alyates there. They also might be able to trace him using Intellego Vim magic when he casts a spell on one of the cardinals. The Invisible Eye Revealed cast on one of the cardinals reveals that Alyates is watching him from afar, although the spell won’t necessarily reveal where Alyates is hiding. If the player characters stayed at Malgarita’s shop, the personal affects stored there work as Arcane Connections to her, and since Malgarita is Alyates, player characters can use these items to track Alyates to the Temple of Mercury. Other than his Aegis of the Hearth''
''spell, the Temple of Mercury is unprotected from intruders. Alyates does not immediately confess, saying that collecting Arcane Connections to the cardinals isn’t a crime. Manipulating one is, and if accused he says that the Augustan wizard Buonacorsus forced his hand. He claims that he discovered that the Virgilian wizard had place an enchanted statue in the Septizodium. Because he could not enter the building, he had to work through agents. “I was only using Arcane Connections to see what was going on inside, to try and find that wizard’s damnable device!” If accused of controlling the cardinals he will say that he was trying to make them push the statue over the side of the balcony, but that the Faerie aura kept fouling his spell. He suspects that the wizard lives in the Colloseum and can point out the statue if the magi haven’t discovered it yet. If believed, Alyates departs as soon''
''as he can, using his bracelet to vanish when the magi look the other way. If disbelieved he offers a contest of certamen, a gentleman’s duel, to settle this affair. If he wins the magi must drop all accusations; if the player character wins Alyates will turn himself in at the next Tribunal. He will not admit to purposefully trying to control the cardinals for his own gain. If the magi can easily prove he is lying — perhaps they already have Buonacorsus in chains — Alyates snaps. “The pope killed my sodales,” he will rant. “I can only be charged with mundane interference if it leads to endangering my sodales. Not doing this endangers my sodales! The pope is dangerous, look at what happened to Thermakopolis!” If action flares, Alyates flees, using his Homeward Bound Bracelet and an Arcane Connection to his fishmonger shop. If he has Arcane Connections to the magi’s assistants he turns them''
''against their masters using mind-control spells. He has Arcane Connections to other places, and may depart entirely. If the player characters find an Arcane Connection to Alyates and can mimic his Rego Corpus instantaneous travel effect, an interesting chase could ensue. The Jerbiton “leaps” from city to city toward Constantinople, perhaps with the magi in hot pursuit. If the player magi cannot follow him with Rego Corpus spells then he is gone. This is not necessarily a bad ending, since success depends on saving the cardinals more than capturing the villain, and Alyates could return in the future, bent on revenge.''

==Catching Annibaldi and Stopping Oriens==

''There are several ways to detect that Annibaldi is a diabolist. Like the other cardinals, he has Magic Resistance and a Commanding Aura, both stemming from his position as a cardinal. Unlike the other cardinals, his mind cannot be controlled by magic. He has never changed his mind or his vote during the conclave. The other cardinals remember this if asked. Tommaso originally voted for Bonaventura and Castiglione originally voted for the young Giovanni Colonna, until Colonna and the other Ghibelline cardinals convinced Castiglione to place himself as the leading Ghibelline candidate. Player characters who attempt to mentally control Annibaldi, just for a moment, fail because of the diabolist’s Greater Immunity. This might indicate that he is different than the other cardinals. It is also fairly easy to follow Annibaldi as he seeks to speak with his patron, Oriens. It might be just as easy to see the marks of his self-sacrifice or the weight gain if he is denied cutting himself. The longer the player char''
''acters delay the conclave the easier it becomes to discover that something is wrong with Annibaldi. If Annibaldi is ever caught in any of his actions, he yells for Oriens to protect him. The summoned demon will burst into the Septizodium with any remaining Warrior Demons at hand, their sole intent to slay everyone inside and turn the former shrine to the heavenly bodies into a slaughter house. When Orsini’s guards hear the cardinals’ screams they rush to their aid, most likely to join the clerics as corpses on the marbled floor.''

==Stopping the Planetary Divinities==

''The divinities don’t care much who wins; they prefer getting the promises from the cardinals and then having the cardinals do as they promise. As long as at least one cardinal votes for Tommaso the faeries plague their dreams. Dealing with the planetary divinities is as easy as herding cats, and magi should have their hands full stopping the persistent faeries. Magi skilled in Perdo Vim magic can kill them, a brutal but effective way of removing them from the scene. A Rego Vim expert might be able to close the regio entrance, trapping the divinities inside their supernatural cubbyhole. Any method that prevents the divinities from tampering with the cardinals should be considered a success. More than playing with the cardinals, the planetary divinities want to be worshiped. They want their shrine to regain its elegance and popularity so that they can gain Vitality. The player characters might have ingenious ways to do this, and the faeries will make deals with the magi if offered dazzling promises. If the magi swear to fill the Septizodium with pagan Romans, for example, the faeries will leave the car''
''dinals alone. However, they make the magi promise that the other unseen manipulators also abandon the game; the planetary divinities will stop if the influences of both wizards and the demon are removed from play.''

==Catching Buonacorsus==

''Buonacorsus is harder to catch because his magic is subtler and more difficult to track. The player characters might find the Animation hidden in the Septizodium and remove or nullify it. The statue is the clue. Buonacorsus spent many seasons awakening and enchanting the Animation, which serves as an Arcane Connection to him, one the magi can use to track him down. Similar to an invested device, the statue adds a +3 bonus to the Penetration Multiplier, although Buonacorsus doesn’t have any Magic Resistance. A more pedestrian tactic would be to find the wizard through the statue’s manufacturer or movers. Buonacorsus enchanted the statue but did not carve it. Casual inquiries throughout Rome will point the player character to a renowned sculptor specializing in marble and living in one of the Ghibelline sections of the city. The sculptor spent two seasons making the statue and he definitively remembers it. It was commissioned by a “strange noble” and then delivered to his residence in the Colosseum by six of his day laborers. The sculptor assumed the noble was connected to the Frangipane family although he didn’t recognize him. The sculptor can also direct the player characters to the men who moved the statue, who are visiting a nearby wine shop. When questioned, these men easily remember the residence, especially because they were there recently to move the same statue from the Colosseum to the Septizodium. Directions to Buonacorsus’ home are easily obtained. Buonacorsus has prepared his home against invasion. Loitering around the''
''grounds are several Frangipane knights, men loyal to the emperor and voluntarily supporting the Augustan wizard. Normally only a half-dozen men mill about, but if Buonacorsus knows that he has been discovered he asks for and receives a troop of a dozen knights. The men guard the entrances to the section of the Colosseum that houses Buonacorsus. Loyal imperialists, they remain for as long as Buonacorsus desires. Inside the Colosseum the regular entrance to the first room is protected by his rite, Stony Protection of the Hearth. The second room is protected by the rite The Soldiers’ Secret Ambush, and the final room is protected by Escaping the Gloomy Place, triggered when Buonacorsus shouts the command phrase. Buonacorsus spends most of his time in the third room (laboratory) during the day and in the second room (bedroom) at night. He hears the triggered ward in the first room on a Perception + Awareness roll + stress die against an Ease Factor of 3 (during the day) or 9 (at night). Buonacorsus is a coward. If discovered his only choice is flight. As soon as he hears the crash, he shouts out the triggering phrase for his third ward and flees to the laboratory’s secret escape exit. He has practiced this maneuver repeatedly. Once he has fled the room he can easily escape the building through one of several planned exits. From there, he leaves the city at first opportunity and heads to the emperor’s lines. If captured, Buonacorsus confesses. He knows that Alyates is influencing the cardinals’ decision and says that Alyates’ involvement forced his hand. If the player characters seemed surprised to learn about Alyates, Buonacorsus uses that to his advantage, shifting blame away from him. He remains silent about the Suffer the Judgment of Jericho rite. Most likely the player characters have more means of getting the information than Buonacorsus has of keeping it. Having no Magic Resis''
''tance, he is vulnerable to all types of Mentem effects and his mind can be as easily tilled as a garden. He can’t remove the rite from the Septizodium, but he can tell the player characters what the triggering conditions are. The player characters must decide what to do with Buonacorsus once captured. He is nearly powerless by himself, removed from the emperor’s military support, and his rites take too long to cast to be much help. Affecting noble traditions, he promises to be an ideal captive if the characters want to ransom him, and he says that his colleagues will pay handsomely for his return. Whether this is true or not depends on if you want to continue using Buonacorsus as a storyguide character after this adventure. Buonacorsus has a variety of goods within his home, mostly personal effects, but a few items that may interest player characters. Members of the Augustan Brotherhood use vis, so an assortment of raw vis would be appropriate, an average amount for a typical adventure in your troupe’s saga. Buonacorsus only uses vis when enchanting Animations and casting rituals, both of which he has already done, so the amount and type of vis placed here won’t affect the adventure. His written works include a complete copy of The Aeneid and several texts commenting on some of the rites he has invented and his knowledge of the School of''
''the Stones. Another Augustan wizard could use these texts to increase his scores in the mentioned rites and the School, but a Hermetic magus would find these nearly incomprehensible, although they could be used as a source of insight for integrating Virgilian magic into Hermetic magic (see Rival Magic, page 12).''

==Rewards==

''Dropped in the middle of a complicated web of magically-controlled cardinals, players could get overwhelmed with the number of supernatural agents manipulating the cardinals. Remind them they there were only asked to stop one of the antagonists, and the story is a success if the player characters stopped the supernatural interferer they were initially asked to stop. Stopping more than one is phenomenal. Regardless of whether the player characters succeed or fail, all surviving characters should get 9 experience points for going on the story. Each magus and companion character also receives Confidence Point rewards. Each surviving character gets two Confidence Points. Stopping the threat he was asked to stop gives the character another. Uncovering a different threat and stopping it grants another Confi''
''dence Point, to a maximum of 3 more. Staying impartial and letting the cardinals pick a pope themselves grants a Confidence Point. The maximum Confidence Point award is 7: 2 for surviving, 1 for stopping the threat he was asked to stop, 3 for uncovering and stopping threats that the character was not asked to stop, and 1 for not magically picking a pope. There are other material rewards. Both Alyates’ magic cup and bracelet can be considered spoils of conquest. Vis can be found in both Alyates and Buonacorsus’ laboratories. Alyates might have lab texts of his spells and some tractatus on his highest Arts scores. Depending on how obvious the magi were, they may have formed a relationship with the new pope. There is no telling how this could unfold, positively or negatively, but at the very least a storyguide could develop additional stories based on the pope remembering the strange men and women who saved him. Less honorable player characters may have actually helped pick the new pope; perhaps they insist that he owes them a favor and try to capitalize on it. At the same time this angle can be ignored. If “The Cardinals’ Decision” is a one-time adventure, run by a beta storyguide or as a break from your regular saga, the ramifications of interacting with the next pope do not need to be large at all.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
