''The Knights Hospitaller, an order of crusading warrior monks, have confiscated something valuable belonging to your covenant. This scenario pits your troupe against one of the most powerful mundane institutions in Mythic Europe and a devious Venetian merchant to retrieve their possessions, without breaching the Code of Hermes. The Hospitallers — also known as the Order of St. John of Jerusalem — are a powerful force, and have representatives all over Mythic Europe. Their order was one of the first international organizations, and by papal decree was given exemption from lay and ecclesiastic authority. Since the Hospitallers have priories and hospitals throughout Mythic Europe, this scenario can be set anywhere. This scenario can be suitable for both magi and''
''companions. Key characters are afforded some measure of protection from magic, through possession of relics or their religious office, but a determined team of magi could easily overcome the obstacles presented here. Further, the scenario is not suitable if the covenant contains a competent Mentem specialist; such a magus could resolve the problems far too easily.''

==Précis==

''In a town near to the troupe’s covenant, a Knights Hospitaller hospital, the Priory of St. Ubaldesca, has been established to both care for the sick and poor, and also to direct resources towards the crusade effort in the Holy Land. In the course of their fundraising activities to support the Fifth Crusade, the priory, led by Hermann of Cologne, seizes some valuable belongings of the covenant. Potentially complicating matters are a duplicitous merchant, an ill Redcap receiving treatment at the priory’s hospital, a belligerent bishop, and a Gifted young child who has been adopted by the Hospitallers. The characters must navigate their way through the town, discover the whereabouts of their property, negotiate — or violently enforce — the return of their goods, and avoid adverse consequences. By the end of this scenario, the characters and their covenant could have a powerful new enemy, or a potential ally.''

==The Knights Hospitaller==

''By the early thirteenth century, the Knights of the Order of St John of Jerusalem were established throughout Mythic Europe, from Iberia to England, and from the Levant to the Holy Roman Empire and Italy. Formed as a monastic order dedicated to the care of the sick and the de''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Setup==

''This scenario requires some setup to establish the non-player characters prior to the start of play, particularly the Venetian merchant Enrico, and the story’s location — a medium-sized town in the sphere of interaction with the player’s covenant. For this scenario to occur, the covenant must previously have regular trade with a merchant from a major town. Enrico’s identity could be changed if there is already an existing suitable non-player character that provides specialist or rare goods for the covenant. Enrico should have been straightforward, unremarkable, and trusted until this scenario — one of the hooks is his betrayal. Furthermore, the property seized by the Hospitallers must be of significant enough value that the player characters do not simply decide to write-off the loss and purchase more. For example, the property may be expensive or irreplaceable laboratory equipment, a copy of a rare and valuable book (even a Hermetic text), or ingredients for a longevity ritual. Players will care less about food or spices, or goods that could simply be re-purchased from another source.''

|}
''fense of Christendom following the crusades, the Knights Hospitaller are chief among the defenders of the remaining Christian territories in the Holy Land and in Iberia. They stand alongside the Knights Templar and the Teutonic Knights as warrior monks, although the Hospitallers are unique in also being healers and carers for the poor. To fund their thousands of hospitals throughout Europe and the Holy Land, as well as their constant war effort, the Hospitallers engage in massive fundraising activities. This relies on bequests left in wills, and on donations from churches, monasteries, and secular lords and individuals. The Hospitallers are also known to use more controversial methods to ensure that they have the supplies and funds they require to protect Christendom and care for the sick and injured.''

===As Christ Himself===

''Unique to the Hospitallers is the care they give to the sick and poor. Indeed, their primary reason for existing is to provide medical care to Christians. The Knights Hospitaller are seen among many commoners in Mythic Europe as the best part of the Church for their devotion to this aim. To the Hospitallers, a poor person represents the person of Christ Himself and is due veneration as such. The sick and poor who come to the hospitals and priories of the Hospitallers receive not just good treatment, but the very best, most luxurious care possible. Servants of the Hospitallers even travel through cities to search for poor''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==How Much Do the Hospitallers Know About the Order?==

''The answer to this question depends a lot on the assumptions made for your individual saga. The Saga chapter in ArM5 (pages 216217) deals with this issue. The Hospitallers (and other military orders) as an order could have quite formal links with the Order of Hermes, through the activities of House Jerbiton and the Quaesitors, perhaps even purchasing magical devices from magi in the Tribunal of''
''Rome to be used for the crusades. In this case, characters like Hermann and Prior Fulk may have a vague idea of the nature and capabilities of Hermetic magic. Alternatively, the Order of Hermes could be a mystery to the Hospitallers, with the Hospital’s leadership knowing only legends and misinformation about the goals and powers of Hermetic magi. The Priory would know almost nothing''
''about the powers of magi and would be unaware that magi are organized in an Order. Your saga’s decision can affect Constable Hermann’s attitude towards whether Hermetic magi are suitably pious in their Christian faith or not; whether he considers them eccentric and fundamentally harmless magicians, or whether they are fearsome and powerful pagan sorcerers to be feared and guarded against.''

==Locating the Hospitallers==

''The Hospitallers had priories all over Europe, but were more concentrated in some areas than others. Hospitaller priories can be found throughout France, northern Iberia (such as Aragon), and southern England. In France and England they have large land holdings and horse-breeding stables. Horses, men, and money constantly stream from Europe to the Holy Land via Cyprus. In Italy, the Hospitallers recruit brother-sergeants and receive large donations from noble families — several of the priories in Italy also house magnificent relics and large convents of nuns. The Hospitallers''
''also have a priory in Constantinople, established after the Fourth Crusade. In Germany there are fewer priories, principally located in areas renowned for crusading; however they are outrecruited by the Teutons. If you are running a historically accurate saga, and you are worried that the Hospitallers may not be present in your area, then you can easily substitute one of the other prominent crusading orders of monks — the Templars, Teutons, Order of Santiago (in Iberia), or Order of St. Thomas of Acre. Obviously, the Hospitallers are the only order that have large hospitals, so other''
''changes would need to be made to the scenario. Similarly, if your saga is taking place at a different time to the default starting date of 1220, some changes may need to be made. The Hospitallers did not exist as a military order before around 1120, although there were public hospitals that eventually merged into the order from 1100. The Hospitallers continue to be active throughout Europe and the Holy Land through the thirteenth century and into the fourteenth. Their crusading and fundraising activities did not cease, even after they lost the Holy Land.''

|}
''and sick Christians who are too weak to admit themselves to the hospital. At a time when only the grandest lords (and of course, Hermetic magi) have beds to themselves, the patients of the Hospitallers are furnished with separate beds with feather mattresses. Every care and luxury is lavished upon the sick, from nutritious food to weekly barbers and almonds at Easter.''

==Helping the Crusade==

''The Hospitallers of the Priory of St. Ubaldesca have confiscated the covenant’s property to help fund the Hospital’s crusading effort, the upkeep of Acre, and to repay the enormous debts incurred during the Fifth Crusade. The Fifth Crusade was one of the largest commitments of Hospitaller resources in a generation, with over 2,000 Hospitallers and their soldiers on the crusade. The siege of Damietta dragged on for over a year before it fell to the crusaders on 5 November 1219. The enormous cost of this crusade means that the Hospitallers’ resources are extremely stretched, and that the priory will continue to enthusiastically raise funds to pay off debts and help defend the crusader city of Acre, which is where the Hospitaller Central Convent is currently located. The Knights Hospitaller were convinced by Enrico of Venice — a merchant known to the covenant — that the confiscated goods belonged to godless pagans and atheists. Assured that the goods were not the property of God-fearing Christians, the Hospitallers seized the property.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''This sections gives information and statistics for the major characters in this adventure.''

==Individual Hospitallers==

''Those Hospitallers with unique roles in the adventure are given below.''

===Priory Constable Hermann of Cologne===

''Hermann, as the Priory Constable of the Knights Hospitaller, is a powerful, influential and much-revered figure in the local community. A brother-knight — one of the military elite of the Hospitallers — Hermann is responsible for ensuring that his comrades in the Holy Land receive the resources required to carry on the fight for Christendom. As a Priory Constable, Hermann is a senior brotherknight, ranking only below the most exalted of ranks — Master, Grand Commander, and Marshal. With the Knights Hospitaller not subject to local lay or ecclesiastical authority, Hermann answers to only his superiors in the Order. Hermann is a talented commander, with a''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Using Story Flaws and Hooks==

''The following are just a few suggested ways to draw the players into this scenario.''

===Story Flaws===

''Black Sheep: Your prestigious family connives with Enrico to deprive you and your covenant of essential goods. Difficult Underlings: Through ignorance, incompetence, or conspiracy, your underlings sell or give away the covenant’s goods to the Hospitallers, or are bribed by Enrico into giving up the goods without a struggle. Enemies: Your enemies have enlisted the help of Enrico, either willingly or through coercion. Alternatively, the Hospitaller Priory may be your enemy. Favors: The confiscated goods belong to someone to whom you owe a boon, and they seek out your help to get the goods returned. Feud: Brother Gilbert or some other influential Hospitaller is actually a family member of your rival family and uses Enrico’s betrayal as a means to weaken you and your family. Tormenting Master: Your former master conspires with Enrico and Brother Gilbert, or manipulates them, into confiscating your goods.''

===Covenant Hooks===

''Poverty: The goods taken by the Hospitallers are of little Hermetic value, but their loss would cause the covenant great stress, possibly even precipitating a collapse. Rival: Your rival covenant is responsible for Enrico’s change of loyalties, and may even be in cahoots with the Hospitaller Priory. Alternatively, Eleanor may be the agent of your covenant’s rival, and is at the Priory to ensure that all goes according to plan.''

|}
''zealous loyalty to the Hospitallers. He is a former frontline soldier and has demonstrated his bravery and leadership skills many times. His time in Acre and the other lands formerly controlled by the Order has given him a cosmopolitan outlook. Originally from Cologne in Germany, Hermann is from a knightly family with a history of crusading. He joined the Hospitallers at a young age, and served most of his early career in Italy in and around Rome (where he was part of the Hospitaller’s diplomatic detachment to the Pope), before being sent to the Central Convent in the Holy Land. Like many Germans attracted to a life of being a warrior monk, Hermann bears some resentment towards the Knights Templar, the rival crusading order to the Hospitallers. Hermann sees them as overly dominated by the French and too aligned with the French king, and regularly argued with them on tactical matters while stationed in the Holy Land. Hermann is only peripherally aware that the priory recently came into a great deal of wealth by way of a tip-off from a Venetian merchant that valuable goods were about to be sent to some distant pagans. He will vigorously protect the priory, its inhabitants, and its possessions (including the confiscated property of the covenant). Hermann does not want to have a group of powerful wizards as his enemies, but he will also not give in to intimidation and threats. Hermann is cosmopolitan, in both his outlook and his experiences. In his time as a leader with the Hospitallers he has experienced a range of supernatural events, met and dealt with wizards and sorcerers, and has heard of the Order of Hermes, although he knows almost nothing about it other than its members are very powerful. Any dealings that Hermann has with the player characters, including the observed extent of Hermetic magic, will be quickly communicated to his superiors via the Hospitallers’ messenger network. Hermann is protected by a potent relic, and has the favor of one of the Hospitallers’ patron saints, St. Ubaldesca, who Hermann knew personally and to whom the priory is dedicated. He is a powerful crusader leader in his own right, and has many influential allies across Mythic Europe. Attempts to magically influence his mind will likely see the intervention of St. Ubaldesca, and he normally enjoys a high level of Magic Resistance due to carrying her relic.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1 (1), Dex +2 (1), Qik +2 (2) Size: 0 Age: 40 (40) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3)''
''Virtues and Flaws: Brother Knight; Powerful Relic; Improved Characteristics, Protection, Temporal Influence, Warrior; Monastic Vows, Pious (Major); Poor Hearing, Temperate Personality Traits: Chaste +4, Pious +4, Brave +3, Indulgent –2 Reputations: Crusader leader +4 (local), Experienced commander +3 (Hospitallers) Combat: Lance and shield (mounted): Init +2, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +5 Long sword and shield (mounted): Init +2, Attack +13, Defense +13, Damage +6 Long sword and shield (on foot): Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +10, Damage +6 Faussar/pole arm (on foot): Init +5, Attack +10, Defense +7, Damage +8''
''Fist: Init +2, Attack +5, Defense +5, Damage +0 Soak: +10 (armor, Stamina) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Arabic 2 (negotiations), Artes Liberales 2 (writing), Athletics 4 (battle-field), Awareness 2 (ambushes), Bargain 2 (arms and armor), Bows 1 (crossbows), Brawl 4 (shield-charges), Chirurgy 2 (battle-fields), Church Lore 2 (Hospitallers), Dominion Lore 1 (miracles), Etiquette 3 (German courts), Folk Ken 3 (strangers), Great Weapon 4 (lance), Greek 2 (formal), Holy Land Lore 3 (Acre), Italian 3 (Papal courts), Leadership 5 (Hospitallers), Magic Lore 1 (Muslim sorcery), Medicine 2 (palliative care), Native Language: German''
''5 (clarity), Ride 5 (combat), Single Weapon 5 (swords), Survival 2 (desert). Equipment: Full chain mail, long sword, heater shield, lance, two horses (on charger, one riding horse). Hermann also carries on his person a relic of St. Ubaldesca, a finger bone set into a small reliquary. Encumbrance: 4 (4) Appearance: Hermann usually appears dressed in the Hospitaller uniform, consisting of a black, tightly fitting monk habit with an eight-pointed white cross sewn on the breast and mantle. He also wears a white coif over his head, or on more formal occasions, a white skull-cap that covers his ears. When traveling or in cold weather, Hermann wears a black cloak with the white cross embroidered on the breast. Hermann is privileged to possess a full suit of mail armor; most of the brother''

==St. Ubaldesca==

''Divine Might: 30 Characteristics: Int +5, Per +5, Pre +5, Com +5, Str n/a, Sta n/a, Dex n/a, Qik n/a Confidence Score: 2 (10) Personality Traits: Chaste +4, Penurious +4, Rebellious –3 Reputations: Patron of the Knights Hospitaller +4 (local and ecclesiastic) Powers: Grant of Serenity, 1 point, Init –10, Mentem: This power calms an agitated or worried mind, soothing fears and calming anxiety, as per the Hermetic spell Enchantment of Detachment. It also nullifies any malign Mentem (or similar) spell currently affecting the target. Mass Healing, 5 points, Init +0, Corpus: Heals a crowd of people''
''from all their diseases, including wounds, blindness, lameness, deafness, and any afflictions caused by age or disease. It does not remove Decrepitude points or restore Characteristics lowered by aging. Straighten the Cripple, 3 points, Init +10, Corpus: This power completely heals the lame or crippled, including those caused by a Flaw, although not from Decrepitude or Warping. Water to Wine, 1 point, Init +0, Aquam: Turns an amount of water, equal to a pitcher or jug, into wine. Appearance: St. Ubaldesca appears as a middle-aged nun with the Hospitaller cross on her breast. She carries a bowl of water and a palm leaf.''
''One of Knights Hospitallers’ patron saints, St. Ubaldesca became a nun of the Order after she was visited by an angel at the age of fifteen. She performed a number of miracles during her life, including turning water to wine. Her soul was taken to heaven by a multitude of angels in 1207, and during her funeral procession 22 invalids were cured. Her feast day is the 28th of May, which was the day of her ascension to heaven. St. Ubaldesca generally performs a miracle once a year on her feast day — typically healing someone who is lame. She is very protective of Constable Gerald, and often responds to his prayers.''

==The Finger Bone of St. Ubaldesca==

''The relic carried by Hermann of Cologne is a finger bone of St. Ubaldesca from the hand that first miraculously turned water into wine. As a major relic, it has a power that it can regularly bestow upon its owner. It has a True Faith score of 3 and a''
''Divine Might of 30, which grants Hermann a Magic Resistance score of 30 when he carries the relic. It also possesses the Mass Healing power of St. Ubaldesca. Like all relics, the finger bone radiates an aura that is anathema to infernal beings with a''
''radius of 30 feet. Infernal creatures with an Infernal Might of less than 30 are unable to enter the radius, and infernal creatures that can approach the relic take +30 damage each round that they remain close to the relic.''
''knights and brother-sergeants have only half-suits, since the best armor is sent to the Holy Land.''
''Hermann is a fearsome warrior, although now that he is aging, he is not as quick on his feet as he once was. A blow to the head during a skirmish in the Holy Land several years ago has severely impaired his hearing, although he is able to compensate by reading people’s lips and body language. Hermann is a humble man, and is truly pious. His veneration of the poor is sincere, and he sees his own poverty as a holy thing. Hermann also benefits from a Magic Resistance of 30 due to the relic of St. Ubaldesca he carries on his person (see nearby insert box for more details). He is aware of the relic’s mass-healing power, but does not call upon it frivolously.''

===Prior Fulk of Tyre===

''Prior Fulk is the religious leader of the Priory of St. Ubaldesca, and co-equal in authority to Constable Hermann. Fulk, like Hermann, is an experienced leader and comes from a noble family. He served under the Conventual Prior in Acre, and has spent time with the Order’s Grand Commander (the second-in-command of the entire Knights Hospitaller). Fulk spent some time imprisoned by the Arabs after the fall of Jerusalem and the battle of Hattin — a battle where the army of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, and most of the Hospitallers and Templars in the Holy Land, were massacred. Fulk, a close associate of the then-king of Jerusalem, Guy of Lusignan, was ransomed with many other nobles after the battle (as Fulk was a non-combatant, he was spared the beheading inflicted on his fellow brother-knights). Much of the rest of Fulk’s time was spent at Tyre, one of the crusader cities. Now in his late fifties, Fulk has been given a retirement at the wealthy Priory of St. Ubaldesca. Like many Hospitallers, Fulk does not hold entirely orthodox views, and regularly comes into conflict with local ecclesiastic authorities. To Fulk, the most veneration and respect is due to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and to St. John the Baptist — patron saints of the Knights Hospitaller. He holds the unusual view that women are equal to men, and treats all of the women and sisters serving in the priory with respect. Fulk regularly flouts the wishes of the local bishop, has given communion to menstruating women, and maintained friendships with excommunicates and accused heretics. However, nothing Prior Fulk has done so far would warrant a great deal of concern from his superiors, the Regional Prior, Conventual Prior, or Pope — and in any case, Fulk is close friends with the Conventual Prior.''
''Fulk has struck up a friendship with the Redcap Eleanor, who he sees as a remarkably intelligent and interesting woman. He does not know of her magical nature, but is impressed with her education and ability to speak Latin. Brother Fulk’s traits are represented using the brotherpriest statistics listed later. Fulk’s traits are modified by giving him a Speak Latin, Theology, Church Lore and Dominion Lore Abilities of level 5 (specialty in “invoking God’s aid”) respectively. Fulk also speaks Arabic and Greek with near fluency (Ability level 4). Fulk also has the Relic Virtue (a toe-bone from the foot of St. John the Baptist), and the Social Handicap Flaw (outspoken views on equality of the sexes). Fulk’s relic grants him a Magic Resistance of 10, and protects him against Infernal creatures with an Infernal Might of 10 or less, in a radius of 10 feet, but grants no miraculous powers.''
''Appearance: Fulk wears the standard Hospitaller black habit and white skull cap. He has tanned skin and speckled hazel eyes. Deep lines frame his mouth and eyes, indicating both seriousness and a sense of humor.''

===Brother Gilbert of Vitry, Master Sergeant===

''Brother Gilbert is a career Hospitaller, a commoner who joined the priory to avoid poverty and ignominy. Unlike many brother-sergeants, Gilbert has spent his entire life in Europe. He believes in God and Christ, but is not as devout or as pious as his fellow brothers — while they pray, he is usually thinking of his day’s tasks, or how he can improve his or the priory’s status. People like Gilbert are not rare among Hospitallers, but are not common either. Gilbert has a great deal of responsibility in the Priory of St. Ubaldesca. He is as influential as Constable Hermann or Prior Fulk, although they both outrank him. His primary role is to manage the other brother-sergeants and mercenaries, but he also has responsibility to oversee the activities of the civilian staff not directly attached to another brother. He is also in charge of the confraters (knights who live at and defend the priory, but have not taken vows). Finally, Gilbert is charged with the vital task of procuring weapons and armor, not only for the brothers in the priory, but also for the Central Convent in Acre, and the Hospitallers in Egypt and the rest of the Holy Land. Due to his great ambition, Gilbert regularly interferes in the local affairs of the town, and advises Constable Hermann on most matters deemed “political.” He also coordinates a lot of the priory’s trade, and the administration of its various holdings. He works closely with the priory’s Treasurer and Drapier, and often goes over their heads or''
''forces them to go along with what he wants. Gilbert has conspired with Enrico to enrich the priory by confiscating the property of the characters’ covenant — goods that Enrico convinced him belonged to godless wizards. Gilbert is thus likely to try to convince Constable Hermann and Prior Fulk to protect and side with Enrico.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 45 (45) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Brother Sergeant; Clear Thinker, Temporal Influence; Ambitious (Major) Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Brave +1, Generous –1 Reputations: Influential +3 (local and ecclesiastic) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage 0 Soak: +0 Abilities: [Area] Lore 3, Artes Liberales 3 (grammar), Awareness 3, Bargain 5 (good deals), Brawl 1 (fists), Church Lore 3 (Hospitallers), Etiquette 5 (nobles), Folk Ken 5 (nobles), Guile 5 (elaborate lies), Intrigue 5 (alliances), Leadership 5 (intimidation), Profession: Administrator 5 (servants) Equipment: Monk’s habit. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Gilbert is middle-aged and overweight, with a receding hairline and white hair around his temples (although his head is normally covered by a white skull cap). His eyes are watery and pale. He wears a black monk’s habit like all brothers, with the Hospitaller cross over his breast.''
''Note: These traits do not represent all of Gilbert’s Abilities, only those relevant to the scenario.''

===Henry the Novice===

''Henry was orphaned at the tender age of five. He was brought to the Priory of St. Ubaldesca after being found on the street by one of the priory’s servants. Henry’s Gift made it very difficult for him at the priory — he was distrusted and mistreated for much of his early childhood by the other novices and servants, although most of them have grown accustomed to his Gift now. Nevertheless, Henry is miserable in the priory. If the characters are particularly nice to Henry, he may well want to leave with them; alternatively, if he sees they are particularly violent or terrifying, he would not want to go with them.''
''As a novice, Henry receives basic education, and some athletic and combat training. If he remained at the priory, he would have the opportunity to become a brother-sergeant, although because of his Gift it is likely he would be encouraged to leave the Hospitallers. Henry’s Gift has granted him the ability to communicate with animals. He is very popular in the stables with the Esquire due to his uncanny knack with getting the horses to do what he wants. He only rarely goes to the hospital as his presence unsettles the patients.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: –1 Age: 13 (13) Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Outcast; Animal Ken, Inoffensive to Animals; Low Self-Esteem Personality Traits: Meek +3, Friendly +1 Reputations: None Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage 0 Knife: Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +3, Damage +2 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (horses), Animal Ken 2 (5) (horses), Athletics 2 (climbing), Awareness 2 (urban areas), Brawl 2 (dodging), Etiquette 1 (Hospitallers), Native Language 5 (excuses), Organisation Lore: Hospitallers 2 (prayers), Profession: Stable Boy 3 (grooming), Ride 1 (bareback), Stealth 2 (hiding), Survival 1 (urban areas) Equipment: Simple clothes, and a small kitchen knife hidden on his person. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Henry is a mop-haired boy with a hang-dog expression and lonely eyes. He wears the priory uniform — a black tunic and white hose. The only time he seems happy is when he is in the stables with the horses.''

==Other Hospitallers==

''A Hospitaller priory requires a large number of support staff, priests, doctors, brother-sergeants-at-arms, administrators, craftsmen, and brother-sergeants-at-service. The number of Hospitallers who are not brother-knights is quite large, and the Priory of St. Ubaldesca relies on a significant number of mercenaries, confraters (nobles and knights who''
''have not taken vows but have agreed to defend the priory), donates (nobles wanting to join the Hospitallers but who still need to travel to the Holy Land at their own expense), and nuns to ensure its continued operation. There are also three brother-priests of equal rank to the brother-knights, who are responsible for caring for the souls of those housed in the priory. There are some 20 brother-knights stationed at the Priory of St. Ubaldesca, with a similar number of brothersergeants-at-arms. The priory also has five medical experts — two doctors, called theorici, and three surgeons, called practici. There are 15 sisters — Hospitaller nuns — living in a separate cloister to the Hospitaller brothers, and 20 or so other nurses, who are paid servants of the Order. Several confraters – experienced knights returned from crusades — also live in the priory, but they are not subject to the Hospitaller Rule. The confraters are middle-aged or elderly, but still formidable fighters if need calls (use the Knight companion template in ArM5, page 23). Supporting all of these are 70 or so servants, most of whom are not Hospitallers. Only some ten of the servants are brother-sergeants-at-service — servants who have taken vows — and they are the administrative specialists in the priory.''

===Brother-knights===

''There are 20 brother-knights housed at the priory, all of whom have served to a greater or lesser extent in the Holy Land. Many of the brother-knights are recovering from injuries sustained in battle, or receiving training on how to administer one of the many smaller Hospitaller commanderies or convents that makes up the continent-spanning network of houses and hospitals owned by the Order. The life of the brother-knights (and the other brothers-at-arms and brother-priests) is governed by a monastic Rule, compiled by the Order’s second Master, Raymond de Puy. It is based on the vows of poverty, chastity, obedience, and eating and sleeping communally. Each brother-knight at the priory observes a strict regime of religious services, charitable services, working in the priory’s hospital, and military training three days a week.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 25 (25) Virtues and Flaws: Brother Knight; Warrior; Pious Personality Traits: Pious +4, Brave +3, Chaste +3 Reputations: Crusader +2 (local)''
''Combat: Lance and shield (mounted): Init +5, Attack +14, Defense +12, Damage +8 Long sword and shield (on foot): Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +11, Damage +7 Faussar/pole arm (on foot): Init +5, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +9 Soak: +6 (armor) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (+21) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Arabic 2 (giving orders), Athletics 2 (dodging), Awareness 2 (hilly terrain), Bows 1 (crossbows), Brawl 3 (punching), Chirurgy 1 (sword wounds), Church Lore 2 (Hospitallers), Etiquette 3 (clergy), Folk Ken 1 (crusaders), Great Weapon 5 (lance), Holy Land Lore 2 (fortifications), Leadership 2 (during battle), Native Language 5, Ride 5 (combat), Single Weapon 4 (long sword and shield), Survival 2 (desert) Equipment: Half-mail armor, long sword, lance, and two horses. Encumbrance: 3 (4) Appearance: Each brother-knight wears the distinctive black monk’s habit of the Hospitallers, with the white eight-pointed cross emblazoned on their breast, and the white coif. When armored, they still wear the habit, but they wear a face-covering helmet instead of the coif.''
''All of the brother-knights at the Priory of St. Ubaldesca are experienced warriors with time served in the Holy Land or another crusader front (such as the Reconquista in Iberia). Most of the brother-knights have spent most of their adult life as a warrior-monk, having been trained in riding, the use of lance and shield, and the most grueling discipline. Many brother-knights are illiterate, although a significant number are able to read and write Latin, Greek, and Arabic. There are also three brother-knights who have a Leadership score of 4 (with the same speciality), so as to allow them to effectively operate as a trained group. Crusading warfare is considerably more dangerous than the warfare of Mythic Europe’s kings and lords, so the obedience and discipline of Hospitaller brother-knights is legendary. In friendly territory (such as near or in their priory), brother-knights are mostly unarmored, although they almost always wear leg armor. If an alarm sounds, the closest brother-knights to the attack take up arms immediately to await orders or repel the enemy. Those further away muster around the Master, Priory Constable, or chapel. When expecting danger, they put on full armor,''
''although unless they are under imminent attack they do not wear helmets. Hospitallers fight in units of 20 to 40 men, with a mix of brother-knights, brother-sergeants, and other supporting soldiers. Most of these units include crossbowmen who fire in concentrated volleys. The most important weapon for brother-knights is the lance, and the mounted cavalry charge. Swords and the distinctive Hospitaller faussar (pole arm or glaive) are mainly used when on foot.''

===Brother-sergeants-at-arms===

''Brother-sergeants-at-arms are men who have made the same perpetual vows at brother-knights but do not come from a noble background. They live an identical conventual life, but are given considerably more responsibility than their brethren. There are 20 brother-sergeants-at-arms at the Priory of St. Ubaldesca Many of the brother-sergeants were brought up by the Hospitallers as novices, and have been trained all their lives to serve the Order. Others have joined due to religious convictions. Debtors and those trying to escape legal punishments have recently been forbidden from joining the Hospitallers, but some brother-sergeants may be former (now reformed) criminals or debtors.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre –1, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 35 (35) Virtues and Flaws: Brother-sergeant; Warrior; Pious Personality Traits: Brave +4, Disciplined +2 Reputations: None Combat: Sword and shield: Init +4, Attack +13, Defense +13, Damage +7 Faussar/pole arm: Init +5, Attack +10, Defense +7, Damage +9 Crossbow*: Init +7, Attack +12, Defense +2, Damage +7 * 	 Takes 4 minutes to reload (10 combat rounds per minute). Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (+21) Abilities: Arabic 2 (mercenaries), Animal Handling 3 (horses), Athletics 4 (massed combat), Awareness 4 (sentry), Bows 4 (crossbows), Brawl 4 (daggers), Church Lore 1 (Hospitallers), Etiquette 3 (Hospitallers), Folk Ken 3 (lies), Great Weapon 4 (Long Spear), Holy Land Lore 2 (watering holes), Leadership 3 (in''
''combat), Native Language 5 (prayer), Ride 1 (long distance), Single Weapon 6 (long sword), Survival 3 (desert trails) Equipment: Half-mail armor, long sword, axe, dagger Encumbrance: 3 (4) Appearance: Brother-sergeants-at-arms dress in identical black monk habits to brother-knights. The different uniforms for brother-sergeants and brother-knights will have to wait another 40 or so years.''
''Brother-sergeants-at-arms range in age from experienced veterans to untested, but highly trained, soldiers. Although all brother-knights and brothersergeants are trained in the use of the crossbow, the priory’s store of crossbows is kept under lock and key by the priory’s treasurer and is only removed if an attack is expected, or if traveling to war. Note that at least three of the 20 brother-sergeants-at-arms have a Leadership score of 5 (with the same specialization) to allow them to operate in effective trained combat groups.''

===Brother-sergeants-at-service===

''The brother-sergeants-at-service are the specialists of the priory. They have taken the same vows as the brother-knights, but have no military or medical role. There are ten brother-sergeants-at-service, including the master of the stables (esquire), a drapier (in charge of the clothing store), a treasurer and his assistants, a master sergeant (who overseas the lay sergeants), and a master crossbowman. All of the brother-sergeants-at-service report to Hermann. Although they are subordinate to the Priory Constable, and rank below all other brothers, some of the brothers-inservice are very influential. The Master Sergeant — Gilbert of Vitry — oversees all of the brother-sergeants, mercenaries, staff, and the confraters, although he is not a fighter himself. He is also responsible for seeing that there are sufficient arms and armor available for the priory’s soldiers. The Esquire is much respected by the brother-knights for his great wisdom when dealing with horses. The treasurer and the drapier are jointly responsible for ensuring that priory is supplied with food, medicine, cloth for clothes, bandages and bedding, and all of the other resources and provisions it needs to operate.''

===Brother-priests===

''There are three brother-priests in the priory, whose responsibility it is to oversee one of the hospital wards''
''with a fellow brother-knight, assign beds, and perform a wide range of religious services. Each brother-priest is assisted by five paid servants and a number of sisters to ensure that the physical and spiritual needs of the hospital’s patients are seen to. They also assist the surgeons and doctors if needed, although the physicians generally have sole charge of the patients. The priests also administer confession and give communion to all patients as they enter the hospital, baptize babies, and ensure that as many patients as are safely able receive the sacrament on Sundays. Each night, the brother-priests spend an hour praying for the sick.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +2, Str 0, Sta –2, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 30 (30) Virtues and Flaws: Brother Chaplain; Puissant Chirurgy; Pious; Vow Personality Traits: Chaste +4, Pious +3 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack +n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Fist: Init +1, Attack +2, Defense +3, Damage +0 Soak: –2 (Stamina) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (+21) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (writing), Awareness 2 (ambushes), Brawl 2 (dodging), Charm 3 (patients), Church Lore 3 (Hospitaller Rule), Concentration (surgery), Chirurgy 4+2 (fevers), Etiquette 3 (crusader leaders), Folk Ken 3 (patients), Holy Land Lore 4 (Hospitals), Latin 3 (prayers), Leadership 4 (congregations), Medicine 2 (bleeding), Native Language 5 (religious use), Profession: Scribe 3 (medical texts), Theology 3 (justifying the crusades) Equipment: None. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Brother-priests are subject to the same discipline as brother-knights. They therefore dress in identical black monk habits and while coifs to brotherknights, although they do not wear armor (except on battle-fronts) or carry weapons.''
''The brother-priests are directly accountable to the Hospitaller’s regional Prior, then to the Conventual Prior, the Hospitaller’s Master, and finally to the Pope. They can thus exercise spiritual authority over the Dominion Aura in the priory, and its surrounds.''

===Sisters===

''There are some fifteen sisters of the Order — Hospitaller nuns — housed in a separate convent to the main priory complex. Most of the nuns are elderly widows, although there are some younger sisters. The primary activity of the nuns of the Priory of St. Ubaldesca is to live a contemplative life of prayer. Although they have some duties to assist the brother-priests in their duties, none of the nuns perform menial tasks, such as nursing, teaching, or labor of any kind. Their role is mainly to oversee the activities of the kitchen and hospital. Governing the nuns is the prioress Toscana, who answers to Prior Fulk.''

===Physicians===

''There are five physicians at the Priory of St. Ubaldesca — three surgeons and two doctors — and none of them are members of the Knights Hospitaller. All five live in the town, but are paid by the priory and are on permanent call in the case of an emergency with one of the patients — there are cells available if they need to sleep at the priory. The five physicians at the priory are quite skilled, and have been trained either in the Holy Land, Greece, or Iberia. For details of medical treatment, see Art and Academe. The stats blow are for the three priory surgeons. For the two doctors, simply swap Puissant Chirurgy and the Chirurgy Ability with Medicine.''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik 0 Virtues and Flaws: Clerk; Puissant Chirurgy; Compassionate Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (humors), Awareness 3 (illnesses), Chirurgy 5+2 (boils), Medicine 2 (bleeding) Equipment: Medical tools, bleeding cup, medical texts. Appearance: The five physicians dress in simple black robes and white smocks when in the hospital. They are all middle-aged men of varying European nationalities.''

===Novices===

''The Hospitallers have charitably adopted abandoned and orphaned children, and also raise several children that have been attached to priory to become brother-sergeants or brother-knights. There are seven novices — children raised by the Order — who are known as the “children of St. John,” three boys (including Henry) and four girls. All of the children, both boys and girls, are given a basic education, and when they reach the age of fifteen they''
''are given the opportunity to leave the priory, or stay as a brother or sister. The male novices wear black tunics and white leggings, while the girl novices wear black dresses. They all wear white head-coverings (coifs or wimples).''

===Servants and Mercenaries===

''A small army of servants works in the priory — in the kitchens, stables, or hospital — assisting with the patients, preparing food, making or mending clothing and equipment, or keeping the priory clean. There are some 50 servants who work in the refectory and hospital, and a further ten mercenaries. One of the most respected groups of servants is the priory’s five washerwomen, who receive a great deal of courtesy from brothers and servants alike. The priory often takes on additional servants if there is a rush of work, or if the number of patients increases. Most of the servants are women — middle-aged wives or widows who live in the town — although there are some men, particularly in the stables or working as more-educated support staff for the brother-sergeants-at-service. A few servants are lay members of the Hospitallers — they live at the priory and have taken a vow to support the Order — but most are not, and live in the town. These stats are for the mercenaries.''
''Characteristics: Int –1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: 31 (31) Virtues and Flaws: Wanderer; Warrior; Avaricious (Minor) Personality Traits: Greedy +3, Brave +2 Combat: Axe and shield: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +7 Faussar/pole arm: Init +5, Attack +11, Defense +8, Damage +9 Fist: Init -1, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +1 Sword and shield: Init +4, Attack +12, Defense +11, Damage +7 Soak: +5 (armor, Stamina) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: [Area] Lore 2 (war-zones), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (in combat), Bows 4 (crossbows), Brawl 4 (punching), Great Weapon 4 (pole arm), [Local] Language 2 (understanding orders), Native Language 5 (tall-tales), Single Weapon 5 (sword) Equipment: Sword, reinforced leather armor. Encumbrance: 1 (2) Appearance: There is a remarkable diversity among the mercenaries serving the Hospitallers. They come''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Town==


|}
''from all corners of Christendom, from England to Iberia, Germany to Greece. Mercenaries must arm and armor themselves, so their equipment is of a lower quality than the Hospitallers’. Most have axes and reinforced leather, although some may have better quality armor.''

==Townsfolk==

''The most important characters from the town are described here.''

===Bishop Christoforo===

''The town’s bishop is Christoforo, a deeply conservative religious leader who was imposed on the town by Rome against the wishes of Lord Thomas. Christoforo is often in dispute with the priory, particularly with Prior Fulk. A few years ago, after Fulk gave communion to a local who had been excommunicated by Christoforo, there was an almost complete breakdown in relationships. As a result, the priory stopped funding the renovation of the town’s church, which has seen all building works cease. Christoforo is currently fundraising to complete the construction, and has increased the tithe owed by the townsfolk to do so. Christoforo carries a relic on his person, which grants him a Magic Resistance of 10 and protects him against infernal creatures with an Infernal Might of 10 or less, in a radius of 10 feet, but grants no miraculous powers.''

===Geoffrey the Jolly, Town Mayor===

''The town’s mayor — Geoffrey the Jolly — is elected by a council of the 50 wealthiest citizens. He has governed the town for almost a decade, and has presided over its rapid growth. He is closely allied to Lord Thomas — a relationship that helps ensure his regular re-election. Geoffrey also regularly requests the counsel of Constable Hermann on important matters, and is indebted to this assistance.''

===Lord Thomas===

''Lord Thomas is the noble on whose land the town is built. He is happy for the town to govern itself, so long as he receives the rents he is due. Thomas has a great deal of ambition, and wants to climb the aristocratic ranks. He spends a great deal of the money he receives from his''
''lands currying favor with more-powerful lords, particularly in his search to find a new wife (his former wife died while giving birth).''

===Enrico, the Merchant From Venice===

''Enrico is the merchant who is responsible for the covenant’s goods being confiscated by the Knights Hospitaller. A Venetian merchant, his primary allegiance is to Venice and his family. Enrico has a prior relationship with the player covenant, as his Venetian connections allow him to access Mythic Europe’s major trade routes — and procure rare and valuable goods that could be of great value to Hermetic covenants. He has contacts both among the wealthy townsfolk and more unsavory types living there, although his relationship with the priory has put him at odds with the town’s bishop. Recently Enrico grew worried about his relationship with wizards, particularly as this has drawn the attention of rivals in Venice, who accused him of consorting with warlocks. So as to sever his ties with the covenant, Enrico offered the latest supply of the covenant’s most precious items to the priory, by way of donation to the Hospitaller’s crusader effort. He conspired with Brother Gilbert, the priory’s supply master, saying that the goods were originally the property of pagans and atheists. Thus, he is able to betray the covenant, have the Hospitallers do his dirty-work, and avoid repercussions in Venice. Having aided the Hospitallers in seizing the covenant’s property, Enrico is now in the good graces of Brother Gilbert. The Venetian is using this good relationship to engineer a monopoly in trade and transport with the Hospitallers of the Priory of St Ubaldesca. He believes that his closeness with the priory will protect him from any repercussions from the covenant, and will also ensure his reputation in Venice is no longer besmirched. Enrico lives in a large townhouse with attached warehouse near the market with his mistress and young illegitimate son (see map later). His wife and legitimate children still live in Venice. As a wealthy merchant, he has many servants, some of whom can double as guards if necessary (use the Hospitaller Mercenary statistics to represent the guards).''
''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 47 (47) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Merchant; Puissant Ability (Bargain), Social Contacts, Well Travelled; Ambitious (Major)''
''Personality Traits: Avaricious +3, Shrewd +3, Sociable +2 Reputations: Wealthy merchant +3 (local) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage –1 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 2 (bargaining), [Area] Lore 2 (trade routes), Artes Liberales 3 (accounting), Awareness 3 (dodgy goods), Bargain 6+2 (foreigners), Brawl 2 (fists), Carouse 3 (gambling), Charm 3 (first impressions), Etiquette 3 (nobles), Folk Ken 6 (lies), German 2 (bargaining), Greek 2 (bargaining), Guile 4 (feigning surprise), Intrigue 4 (trade alliances), Italian [Venetian] 5 (gossip), Italy Lore 3 (Venice), Music 1 (songs), Profession: Merchant 6 (accounting), Swim 2 (marshes) Equipment: Luxurious clothes. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Enrico wears expensive robes, made of colorful silks and embroidered cloths. He is middle-aged, and his black hair is thinning and greying, although his deep brown eyes are still bright.''
''Enrico’s contacts in Venice give him access to all manner of exotic luxury items much prized by Hermetic magi. Enrico is a very wealthy merchant with a lot of disposable income — he does not have the Wealthy Virtue, however, because his wealth does not give him additional leisure time.''

==Hermetic Magi==

''Only one NPC magi is included in this scenario, and that is Eleanor of Mercere.''

===Eleanor of Mercere===

''Eleanor is an unGifted Redcap, well known in the Tribunal. She fell ill with a fever while traveling near to the town where the Priory of St. Ubaldesca is located and almost died. She was found by the servants of the Hospitallers and brought to the hospital where she has spent a month regaining his strength. Eleanor has a great debt to pay to the Priory of St. Ubaldesca, which most certainly saved her life. She has also struck up a friendship with a number of the priory’s brothers and staff, including Prior Fulk and her physician. Eleanor is very impressed with the Hospitallers, the care they show for the weakest members of society, and the discipline and dignity of the Hospitallers themselves. She has a great deal of compassion for the poor and homeless — she spent her early years on the streets as a homeless orphan — and believes that the Hospitallers do a great deal of good. While recovering at the hospital, Eleanor noticed that one of the novices, the orphaned child Henry, possesses all the characteristics of The Gift. She has started discussions with Prior Fulk about the possibility of adopting Henry, so that she can then ensure the Gifted boy is brought into the Order of Hermes. She has tried to befriend the boy, and years of experience as a Redcap mean that she is able to force herself to be nice to him, and ignore her disquiet. Eleanor takes a dim view of any group of magi or their servants who outright attack the priory. She feels a sense of loyalty to the priory for the aid they have given her. She intervenes to protect the patients of the hospital, and the other inhabitants of the priory, if it appears that they are in danger. Eleanor is quietly religious — she believes in God and Christ, but has had little interaction with the Church. Eleanor has the trust of a number of the Hospitallers, so''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Eleanor’s Magical Devices==

''Eleanor of Mercere carries the following items:''

===Ring of Highland Ken===

''InTe 25 Pen 0, constant effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Vision This ring, when worn, works as the Hermetic spell Eyes of the Treacherous Terrain, ArM5 page 153. This ring was a gift from her parens when she completed her Gauntlet.''

===St. Peter’s Rhombus===

''PeVi 35 Pen 0, 1/day R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Room As per Wind of Mundane Silence, ArM5 page 161, with a level 15 effect. This magical device was named for St. Peter, who according to legend dispelled the magic of Simon Magus. The rhombus must be whirled or spun in the air to activate the device. It was given to Eleanor by a grateful arch-magus several months before she became ill.''

|}
''could be a potential ally of the characters if they discover her presence and ask for her assistance. If told by the player characters of the confiscation of the covenant’s property by the Hospitallers, she offers her help in trying negotiate a settlement. She can get the characters an audience with Prior Fulk for example. Whether, and how strongly, she takes the characters’ side depends on their demeanor and attitude towards her and the priory. If they are particularly contemptuous of the poor or sick in the hospital, she is less likely to be sympathetic to the characters and their cause, and may even warn Prior Fulk.''
''Characteristics: Int +1 Per +2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 30 (30) Warping Score: 1 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Redcap; Skinchanger (lynx), Faerie Blood: Sidhe (Minor), Magic Sensitivity, Second Sight; Greater Malediction (must always keep her word or disaster will strike her); Fear (being restrained), Lesser Malediction (must give away all wealth she cannot carry or suffer from debilitating trembling), Overconfident (Minor), Susceptibility to Faerie Power Personality Traits: Compassionate +3, Overconfident +3, Friendly +2, Honorable +1 Reputations: Redcap +3 (Order of Hermes) Combat: Claws (as lynx): Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +2 Dagger: Init 0, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage +3 Fist: Init 0, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage +0 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (+21) Abilities: [Area] Lore 4 (interesting news), Artes Liberales 1 (sounding informed), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (traps), Bargain 2 (quick deals), Brawl 2 (claws), Charm 4 (peasants), Code of Hermes 2 (covenants), Etiquette 2 (superiors), Faerie Lore 2 (trods), Guile 2 (lying to magi), Latin 5 (long messages), Legerdemain 2 (filching), Magic Lore 3 (dangerous areas), Magic Sensitivity 3 (when concentrating), Native Language 5 (storytelling), Order of Hermes Lore 3 (covenant locations), Second Sight 3 (when concentrating), Stealth 2 (as lynx), Survival 4 (as lynx) Equipment: Lynx belt, leather satchel, dagger, sling. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Eleanor is a sandy-haired young woman with a slender build and brilliant green eyes. She is usually''
''dressed as a man, in a short green tunic, dark pants, and sturdy leather boots. She wears a belt of tawny fur across her shoulder. In the priory hospital she is dressed in a white patient’s gown, although she still wears the fur belt beneath the gown.''
''Eleanor can turn into a lynx thanks to her Skinchanger Virtue. Her traits when transformed as a lynx are modified as follows (for more details, see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 38-43): Increase Dex and Qik to +2, decrease Size to –1, gain a +3 bonus to all rolls involving jumping, when using the senses of smell and hearing, and gain a +2 to all Hunt rolls. Eleanor would only transform into a lynx while in an urban area if her life were severely threatened and she needed to escape. Note that due to her illness, Eleanor is recovering from the equivalent of a Medium Wound. She is almost better, with only a few weeks left to her recovery, but still suffers from a –3 wound penalty.''

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''The following details the scenario’s possible events.''

==Confiscation==

''To start the scenario, the covenant’s property is confiscated by the Hospitallers. The Hospitallers are able to do so with the connivance of Enrico the merchant, who directs them to where the property is being transported or stored. Enrico does not personally guide the Hospitallers, however. Depending on the storyguide’s preference, the confiscation could take place at Enrico’s warehouse, or en route to the covenant.''

===Violent Confiscation===

''To involve the players in this stage, the troupe could play grogs who are charged with ensuring that the covenant’s precious property safely reaches the magi. In this case, a group of brother-knights, brother-sergeants-at-arms, and mercenaries bursts upon the covenant’s goods (the number''
''of Hospitallers should be determined by the storyguide). There is an opportunity for combat here, but the Hospitallers are heavily armed and armored, and should outnumber the grogs and so that they can quickly subdue them. The Hospitallers are not intending to kill anyone — merely to acquire the goods — but they are ruthless and efficient. They cannot be bargained or negotiated with at this point; no-one present has that sort of authority. The confiscated property is brought to the priory. The storyguide should ensure that the Hospitallers are more than a match for the grogs, if this part of the scenario is played through; if the grogs win, the players face a very different problem. Grogs who are seriously injured (any grog sustaining a Heavy wound) are brought back to the priory’s hospital and cared for. A surgeon accompanies the brother-knights and performs battlefield surgery on anyone that needs it, both grogs and Hospitallers. This may confuse the players — Hospitallers provide medical assistance to everyone, even enemies and non-Christians. Depending on the timeline for the recovery of any injured grogs, they may still be at the priory’s hospital when the main group of characters come looking for their missing property.''

===Confiscation in the Background===

''If the troupe decides not to play through this section, then the characters at the covenant receive news that a very precious shipment of laboratory equipment, or something else of great value to the covenant, has been taken by a group of Hospitallers. The messenger relays the details — that the Hospitallers suddenly burst in and seized the goods. Wounded covenfolk were tended to. No explanation was given by the Hospitallers for their actions.''

==Responding to the Theft==

''Having learned of their stolen goods, the characters must determine how to ensure their return. This will probably involve a team of companions and magi traveling to the priory. It is unlikely that the characters know much about these Knights Hospitaller, their agenda, or why they have confiscated the covenant’s property, although they may well know a great deal about the order in general. Depending on the personalities involved, the characters may want''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Scenario Options==

''There are five options presented in this scenario for the troupe to get their property back.''

===Visiting Enrico===

''The characters may decide to focus on Enrico, and try to convince him that he should retrieve the goods from the Hospitallers, replace the goods, or assist the characters in dealing with the Hospitallers. Enrico is not inclined to assist magi or their companions any more, but appropriate magic, threats, or blackmail could ensure his cooperation.''

===Negotiation===

''The characters can negotiate with the priory’s leaders, Hermann and Fulk. The Hospitallers are not disposed to giving up something they''
''believe is the rightful property of the priory. However, if the characters are influential in their own right, are willing to offer something to the priory as compensation, or have silver tongues, then the priory would be willing to do a deal.''

===Stealth===

''Hermetic magic can make people almost impossible to detect, and can facilitate easy access to even the most secure forts. The characters may decide to simply steal back their property under cover of magic.''

===Blackmail===

''The Hospitallers have unusual views and practices, and Prior Fulk is known to hold less-than-orthodox views. With the local bishop in dispute with the priory, the characters''
''may find some influential support for getting their property back. They may try to blacken the priory’s name, especially regarding the unusual status that women are accorded — accusations of fornication between the male and female Hospitallers could be enough for the priory’s leaders to give over the characters’ property.''

===Attack===

''If breaking the Code of Hermes is no barrier, or if the characters believe they can get away with it with few (or no) witnesses, they could attack the priory. The Hospitallers are formidable foes, even for magi. The consequences of this could extend beyond being Marched at the next Tribunal, and could potentially see the Hospitallers turn against the covenant, or even the entire Order of Hermes.''

|}
''to investigate the motives of the Hospitallers, the extent of their defensive (or offensive) capabilities, or try to determine the location of their property. Alternatively, bellicose characters may want to go in with Pilums of Fire ablaze to teach the impudent Hospitallers not to meddle with magi of the Order of Hermes.''

==Visiting the Town==

''There are two or three main areas that are relevant to this scenario, as they relate to the covenant’s lost property: Enrico the merchant’s warehouse, and the town’s docks or marketplace. A map is provided of the town earlier in this chapter, with the location of the priory and Enrico’s warehouse marked. Most of the town has a Dominion aura of 2. The church and its graveyard have a Dominion Aura of 3 (5 near the altar). The town’s aura has a Loyal Temper with a +1 rating, which does not affect the priory; technically the auras of the priory and the town are in Schism (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 41), although this has no impact on the scenario. The Loyal Temper promotes dedicated, faithful, humble, and trusting Personality Traits, and opposes those associated with Pride (such as arrogance, rebelliousness, suspiciousness, and vanity).''

===Customizing the Town===

''The assumption in this scenario is that the town is medium-sized with docks, a large market, and a cathedral. However, the details of the town can be changed significantly affecting the scenario. For example, Geoffrey the mayor may be merged with Lord Thomas if, in the area in Mythic Europe your saga is set, towns do not have''
''independence from direct aristocratic rule. Similarly, although many towns in the center of Mythic Europe, such as Italy or France, have bishops, many towns in England, Germany, or Iberia may not be important enough to have their own bishop (or may not be wealthy enough to have a cathedral). Bishop Christoforo thus may be demoted to simply being an influential priest, or even a powerful abbot. It is not necessary for Enrico to be Venetian. Although Venetians can be found on most Mediterranean trade routes, if the scenario is set inland or in the north, then Enrico’s nationality may need to be changed. Finally, although the scenario is set in a coastal town, it could easily take place in a town on a river or major in-land trade route.''

==The Priory of St. Ubaldesca==

''The priory is generic enough to fit into most large medieval towns or small cities. Most cities and large towns would have had a Hospitaller priory, hospital, or convent, although the further away from the Holy Land (or Iberia) one travels, the less fortified the priory would be, and the fewer combat-ready troops would be present. The Priory of St. Ubaldesca is a partly fortified complex near the center of town. Its primary purposes are to serve as a massive hospital for the town’s poor, and to provide storage for the many horses, weapons, suits of armor, rolls of cloth, and other goods essential to the continued crusading effort. Because of this role, the defenses are not as sophisticated as some of the Hospitaller castles in the Holy Land, although Middle Eastern architectural knowledge is present in many of the newer parts of the priory. The Priory of St. Ubaldesca is slightly unusual in the large number of brother-knights and brother-sergeantsat-arms. This is due to the high rank of Priory Constable''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Time is Running Out==

''There is no inbuilt timeline to this scenario; the troupe could continue to talk and negotiate with Enrico, the townsfolk, and the priory for as long as they desire. At the storyguide’s option, urgency can be added to the scenario to hurry along the action. The Hospitallers could intend to destroy, split up, or sell the covenant’s property. If the property is a collection of books, the priory could''
''intend to break up the collection and send them to different parts of Europe. Similarly, if the property is jewelry or precious metal, the priory could plan on melting it down to make bullion to pay off debts, or send to Acre. Enrico could intend to return to Venice for the summer or winter months, thus placing himself outside the immediate reach of''
''the characters. By the time the characters reach the town, he could be hours away from boarding a ship that takes him far away. Prior Fulk or another Hospitaller could be about to leave to travel to Acre, along with part or all of the covenant’s property. Again, this could be just hours or days after the characters arrive at the town.''

|}
''Hermann, which grants him the privilege of a combatready group of companion brother-knights and brothersergeant-at-arms. Additionally, the size of the hospital, and the wealth of the priory’s holdings, means that it employs more staff and mercenaries than most others would outside of the Holy Land. The defensive strengths of the priory have been kept to a minimum to allay the fears of the local lay authorities. Nevertheless, Hermann’s influence has meant that the priory is still a formidable defensive structure. The priory’s keep — location of the Hospitaller’s treasury — in particular is a heavily fortified structure. The largest buildings in the complex are the refectory where patients’ food is prepared, the hospital itself, and a huge stable. The dwellings for the brothers and other associates of the Hospitallers are modest. The complex is walled, although the gates are rarely closed. There are renovations currently taking place to expand the size of the hospital. There is also a private cemetery, reserved for brothers (and sisters) of the Order, and for wealthy donors. The entire priory is one of the cleaner areas of the town — rubbish and refuse is removed from public areas, and there is a primitive sewer that flows out of the priory into a nearby stream. Numerous animals are kept near the refec''
''tory — pigs, chickens and goats — to provide milk, eggs, and meat. The Priory of St. Ubaldesca is supported by a large number of farms and industries around the town. Indeed, the Hospitallers are the third largest landowner after the local lord and bishop. They supplement this income by acting as the local bank and investing in trade, and they also run a long-distance communications service. The Hospitallers, as a centralized order, are in regular communication with priories and commanderies throughout Mythic Europe and the Holy Land. For a fee, they also carry the messages of others to these towns and cities. The Dominion aura in the priory varies from 3 to 5. Most of the priory complex has a rating of 4, with the refectory and stables having a Dominion of 3, and the chapel having an aura of 5. The aura has a Kind Temper (see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 38-39), which invokes the feelings of love and goodwill in people. This has the effect of giving all people in the aura a “Divine Personality Trait” of “Kind” with a rating of +1, which adds to all Personality Trait rolls involving kindness, care, mercy, forgiveness, and generosity. It also acts as a penalty to all Personality Trait rolls that are associated with Envy (such as jealousy, cruelty, gossip, and gruffness).''

===Refectory===

''The largest building in the priory, the refectory is a massive kitchen and food-store capable of feeding hundreds of souls. The refectory has a high ceiling held aloft by arches and two chimneys, which stand over two massive ovens. The ovens burn day and night, baking hundreds of loaves of bread and cooking large cauldrons filled with wholesome stews. Scores of servants, cooks, and kitchen-hands constantly bustle in and around the refectory to prepare the meals of the Hospitallers and their patients. In the refectory are several long tables — enough for 50 or so people to comfortably sit and eat. The Hospitaller brothers (knights and sergeants) gather here twice a day for their meals (although some brothers are occasionally granted the privilege of eating alone in their cell). The sisters eat at the same time as the brothers, although their eating area is demarcated from that of the brothers. This area is separate from the kitchens. The menu staples for the Priory of St. Ubaldesca include cooked meat — pork, mutton, lamb, and chicken — fish, eggs, rye and chickpeas, bread, and wine. Also regularly served, depending on the season, are a range of fruits and vegetables, including imported delicacies such as cucumbers, figs, radishes, chestnuts, and lemons. The refectory is divided between the kitchens and the storage areas. Two large ovens are installed in the ground, and are almost as deep as a fully-grown adult. Wooden tables and benches for preparing the food surround the ovens. There are baskets, barrels, and boxes of all shapes and sizes filled with all manner of foods, and herbs and vegetables hang on hooks from the ceiling. Most of the food, however, is stored in large rooms that are set into the earth, so as to keep things cool and out of the heat. There is enough food stored at the priory to feed a small army for months — and more than enough to feed the hundred or so Hospitallers, their servants, and their patients. Behind the refectory is an area used for slaughtering and butchering animals; the waste drains into the priory’s sewer.''

===Hospital===

''The priory’s hospital is an enormous, remarkably decorated building, divided into several wards. There are separate wards for women, an obstetrics ward, a ward for delirious patients, for surgery, and for those recovering from surgery. Over 300 patients are treated by the Priory of St. Ubaldesca each year, and at any given time there may be upwards of 50 patients in the hospital, including pregnant women,''
''infants, the poor and destitute, and injured peasants and craftsmen. The Priory of St. Ubaldesca is a very successful hospital, with only 15 or so patients dying each year on average (more during an epidemic). Each of the patients is treated to his own bed, with a luxurious feather mattress and regularly changed sheets and blankets. Each patient has his own candle, and each ward is lit by three lamps that are kept burning by vigilant servants. Recovering in the priory’s hospital is Eleanor of Mercere, an unGifted Redcap, who recently fell sick with fever. There is a subterranean passage leading from the hospital to the cells.''

===Stables===

''There is room for over 100 horses in this stable, but there are less than 30 stabled here at any given time. Most of the horses suitable for battle are sent to the Holy Land, and only a small number are retained at the priory itself. Of the 30 horses stabled, half are chargers (war horses) and half are hacks (riding horses). There are also a few pack animals — mules and ponies. The stables are run by the Esquire, a brother-sergeantin-service, who has a team of stable-boys and other servants to ensure that the chargers and riding horses are kept in peak condition. The stable is where the characters are likely to meet Henry the novice.''

===Chapel===

''The spiritual centre of the priory, and also the first destination of all brothers-at-arms in the event of an attack, the chapel is a relatively modest chamber large enough to comfortably contain all the Hospitaller brothers and senior donates and confraters. At the eastern end of the chapel is the altar. There is a small bell in the chapel roof, which is rung twice a day by one of the brother-priests to summon the brothers to their meal. The chapel is used for religious ceremonies such as funerals for deceased patients, for Mass, and for other significant events. It is where brothers gather if the priory is attacked (brothers close to the attackers first fend off the attackers, but retreat to the chapel). The chapel bell has been blessed by the Hospitaller’s supreme religious leader, the Conventual Prior, with the baptizing hand of St. John the Baptist. When it tolls, it forces all creatures with an Infernal Might score of 10 or less to flee the priory for an entire day.''

===Hall===

''The Hospitaller Hall is where the brothers and sisters gather several times a day for their communal prayers. It is a large room filled with benches for the brothers and sisters to sit on. There is a pedestal at the front of the hall (opposite the door) where the Prior or Constable stands to lead the prayers. Many of the brothers and sisters of the priory are illiterate, so they simply say their paternosters (the Lord’s Prayer in Latin), which they have learned by rote.''

===Cells===

''The communal sleeping quarters for the brother-knights and brother-sergeants, the cells consist of both a large sleeping area and several individual rooms. The building is attached to the hall and keep, and is very close to the chapel. Most brothers sleep together in a common dormitory. Only the Priory Constable and the Prior have their own sleeping cells. All brothers are required to be silent when in their cells and no brother may sleep naked. There are several empty cells, to allow certain brothers the privilege of eating on their own. The empty cells are also used to imprison unruly brothers, or to house extra patients if the hospital becomes full. The brother-knights and brother-sergeants sleep separately, in different communal chambers. The subterranean tunnel from the hospital leads to the cells. The tunnel is used by brothers to reach the hospital.''

===Keep===

''The priory’s keep is the storehouse and treasury. A small building, it is also the most heavily fortified, with thick walls and gates. Unlike most of the other buildings in the priory, the keep is two stories, with a basement. Most of the priory’s administrative work is done from the keep. The top story is used by the Constable and treasurer to manage the priory’s accounts, properties, and other interests. The ground level is where most of the valuable belongings of the priory are stored. There is a small chamber where the priory’s store of crossbows is kept under lock and key. The basement is very small, and is used to store the cash used by the priory to redeem bank-credit certificates that are issued by other Hospitaller priories. The keep is where the covenant’s property is being kept, until it can be sold, or traded for something useful to the priory. Contrary to popular rumor, there is not a treasure''
''trove of riches and wealth stored in the keep. There is enough cash — silver pennies — to guarantee most promissory notes from the Hospitallers’ banking activities, but most of the wealth of the Knights Hospitaller exists in the assets they control: farms, businesses, property, arms and armor, horses, and trade-goods (such as spices, cloths and silk, sugar and other luxury items). These are difficult to liquidate, or are stored in warehouses near the town’s docks and marketplace.''

===Nunnery===

''The nunnery is simply a group of residential cells for the priory’s sisters, separate from the cells of the brothers. Most of the sisters sleep communally, like the brothers, although there are individual cells for the Prioress Toscana and a few others. The sisters are most likely to be found in the nunnery if they are not performing their duties in the hospital or refectory. The priory’s sisters have the same religious time-table as the brothers — they share common prayer and eating times.''

===Investigating the Priory===

''Arriving in town, the characters can quickly find out where the Priory of St. Ubaldesca is located. The Hospitallers have a good reputation in the town and its surrounds for their charitable work in looking after the sick, poor, and orphans. A Perception + (local) Area Lore roll against an East Factor of 9 gives the characters some basic information about the Knights Hospitaller, and their activities. Detailed investigation at the town by talking to locals reveals more. The priory is a major economic power in the town, and Priory Constable Hermann is very influential with the local lay and church authorities. A number of farms around the town, and many buildings in town, such as warehouses, belong to the priory. The priory acts as a bank for merchants and nobles, and there are rumors that the treasury holds chests of gold, precious gems, and rolls of silks. Of course, no one has ever successfully gained entrance to the treasury. Like all Hospitaller priories, the Priory of St. Ubaldesca spends most of its time raising money to pay for horses, weapons, and armor to be sent to the Holy Land, and to pay for the exorbitant costs of running its hospital. Observation of the priory, or questioning of locals, reveals that there are roughly 20 brother-knights and a similar number of brother-sergeants. There are additional soldiers stationed at the priory, although they are not Hospitallers. The priory is open all hours of daylight. Scores of''
''people go through the gates each hour, carting goods, assisting the sick or lame, or going about the many chores required for the priory to function. There are guards on the gates, but they are neither heavily armed nor particularly attentive. (Of course, if the Hospitallers are expecting something, such as an attack from the characters, then the guards are heavily armed and armored.)''

===Exploring the Priory===

''If the characters try to walk through the gates, the guards are likely to stop them — especially so if they have The Gift — to ask them their business. A meeting with the Constable or other senior brother is unlikely unless the characters have a very good excuse. Gifted characters find this difficult. The Blatantly Gifted find it impossible, as the guards bar them from entering the priory, and send for the Master Sergeant to deal with them. Of course, they immediately offer any sick members of the troupe a bed in the hospital; they also offer food or clothes to the characters if they appear tired, hungry, or poverty-stricken. Sick (or shamming) characters are taken to the hospital, where they are given confession and communion immediately by a brother-priest, who also assigns them to a bed. Servants see to their comfort immediately, and a physician visits them within several minutes of their arrival. Gifted (and Blatantly Gifted) characters are kept separate from other patients. In the hospital, the characters meet the Redcap Eleanor (see ArM5 page 19 for rules on reputation, if they have not already met Eleanor). She may also recognize them, and in any case engages them in conversation to find out what they are doing at the priory. When in the priory, the characters also notice the novice Henry. Companions or magi who do not have their Parma Magica active will notice The Gift in him. Henry is found in or around the stables, where he is tending to the horses. Observant characters notice that he seems to speak to the horses, and they appear to do what he asks. Guards or servants prevent characters from entering''
''buildings that are not open to the public (every building except for the hospital and chapel). Trying to force their way in creates a stir, and several brother-in-arms (either knights or sergeants) and mercenaries quickly respond to a ruckus. If caught, the characters are asked to leave, and forcefully ejected if they refuse. Trying to enter private buildings, whether stealthily or not, causes the Hospitallers to be immediately distrustful of the characters if they are caught, and they will be watched by a servant or guard for the remaining time they spend in or near the priory. Magically invisible characters are, of course, able to wander the priory at will.''

==Visiting Enrico==

''The characters may decide to visit Enrico, the merchant who supplied the covenant’s luxury and specialist goods. Enrico can be found at his warehouse. If confronted by the chracters he is terrified, but claims to know nothing of the covenant’s stolen property, other than it was sent to the covenant as agreed.''

===Enrico’s House & Warehouse===

''Enrico’s warehouse is also his residence — a richly decorated house with large storage rooms attached. It is located on the edge of the wealthier area of town. Enrico is rich enough to employ a number of servants and staff to manage his home and the warehouse, in addition to servants he hires to take his trade goods from town to town. His mistress and illegitimate son also live here. Most servants are for manual labor, but he also employs a number of ruffians for security. .''

===Threatening Enrico===

''Mentem magic or sufficient threats (a Communication + Leadership + stress die versus Enrico’s Avaricious Person''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Enrico’s Motives==

''Enrico fears the repercussions of his relationship with the covenant for himself and his family in Venice. Rival merchants in Venice are starting to use his relationship with wizards to blacken his name. He has decided to cut off his relationship with the covenant, and simultaneously ingratiate himself with the Hospitallers''
''— a powerful ally in his family’s political struggles in Venice. Assisting in the return of the covenant’s goods would require him to admit to Gilbert and the Priory’s leader that he lied to them and put the priory in danger. He is thus more willing to face the wrath of the covenant than the Hospitallers.''

|}
''ality trait + a stress die) will extract from Enrico the truth — that he conspired to help the Hospitallers confiscate the covenant’s property — although he is obviously loathe to risk his relationship with the priory. Enrico will first try to lie, claim ignorance, or suggest that the warriors who confiscated the covenant’s property were impersonating Hospitallers. Intellego Mentem magic will reveal that Enrico is lying, and Rego Mentem magic can easily force him to tell the characters the truth if they cannot simply read it from his mind. If the characters demand that Enrico replace the goods with equivalents, he protests that he is unable to do so — the specific goods will require many months to import (he has none in stock), and the characters will need to make another payment. The difficulty of replacing the goods should be genuine. Enrico also claims to not have any money to compensate the covenant for their loss. This is of course not true: Enrico is fabulously wealthy, and could easily compensate the covenant — although the majority of his assets are locked up in trade goods and investments in town and in Venice. The characters may alternatively try to force Enrico to buy back the confiscated property from the Hospitallers himself. If forced to, he will agree to this; however, he will again betray the characters to Brother Gilbert and the priory, and seek''
''their protection. There is also a good chance that the characters will want to avenge their loss on Enrico. Although he is protected by a number of thugs, a determined assault will demoralize his bodyguards and make them flee. Enrico is at the mercy of the characters. He will plead for his life, and make any number of promises to try to escape. When he is able, Enrico immediately sends a servant to warn the Hospitallers of what has transpired. The Hospitallers would certainly provide some protection to Enrico if he told them he was being threatened by wizards, although this would consist of housing him and his family in the priory until the threat went away.''

==Negotiation==

''There are several options available in negotiation with the Hospitallers, some more fruitful than others. The characters may, for example, seek assistance from the local secular authorities — the town’s mayor or lord — or the bishop. Alternatively, they may try to seek an audience with Priory Constable Hermann to see if they can bargain back their property.''

===Negotiating With the Priory===

''The characters could go directly to Priory Constable Hermann, to Brother Gilbert the Master Sergeant, or to Prior Fulk. Characters who are, or appear to be, influential or wealthy will find it relatively easy to get an audience with the Hospitaller leadership. Gifted characters find an audience more difficult to obtain (and Blatantly Gifted characters are refused entrance to the priory, unless they are sick or wounded, in which case they are taken to the hospital and watched at all times). Excuses such as making a donation or carrying impor''
''tant news from the Holy Land or Fifth Crusade will likely get either Hermann or Gilbert to meet with them. If the characters seem important — for example, one of the characters is a noble, or a priest, or has a similar Status Virtue — then they are also given an audience with Hermann. Neither Hermann nor Gilbert is sympathetic to the characters if they bring up the confiscated property, unless the characters are clearly Christians. Hermann is only vaguely aware of the issue. Gilbert tries to convince Hermann that the property rightly belongs to the priory. If the characters protest that they are good Christians, then Hermann will be more agreeable, but will insist that this is''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Gilbert’s Motives==

''Gilbert, as an ambitious Hospitaller, is unwilling to return the covenant’s goods. He has already impressed his masters in the Priory and in the Hospitaller Order more widely with the acquisition of the valuable goods in the first place. If he is required to return them, it would be''
''embarrassing for him. He is more interested in protecting his career and influence than helping the covenant, and he sees his alliance with the Venetian merchant as very beneficial to the priory.''

==The Characters are Infidels==

''If the characters are clearly non-Christians, or openly scornful towards the Church and related institutions, then their relations with the Hospitallers and other townsfolk will be difficult. One of their natural allies — Bishop Christoforo — will be disinclined to associate with non-Christians, even against the Hospitallers. Likewise, most of the Hospitallers will be unlikely to want to assist the characters. Troupes may need to rely on covenfolk with''
''a more-Christian demeanor to get their property back. Of course, although many Hermetic magi and their covenfolk are not practicing or devout Christians, they may be able to give a good impression of being so. Educated or wealthy characters are still treated with respect, as will those with an obviously noble or ecclesiastic appearance. The Hospitallers have been known to deal with non-Christians to achieve''
''their aims, and Constable Hermann could be convinced that friendship with a powerful and wealthy covenant could aid the crusade effort. Likewise, Brother Fulk is open and ecumenical in his attitude, particularly towards the educated or intelligent. If the characters are not openly hostile, even if they are unorthodox in appearance or behavior, they may still be able to have cordial relations with the Hospitallers.''

==The Characters are Christians==

''Many Hermetic magi are practicing Christians, and may even be pious and God-fearing. Some covenants may have priests, friars, or monks as covenfolk, companions, or allies. The Hospitallers are definitely better disposed to people they see as their ideological or religious friends. Christian magi are more likely to be able to get an audience with''
''Constable Hermann or Brother Fulk. Furthermore, if the characters can demonstrate that they are good Christians, then the Hospitallers may apologize for taking their property and seek recompense from the merchant Enrico. Stealing from Christians is a sin, even when committed in ignorance, so the Hospitallers will be contrite —''
''unless the characters are bellicose and antagonistic, in which case the Hospitallers hedge their bets and try to keep the property. Christian characters will also be able to rely much more on the support of Bishop Christoforo, if they have not been able to get what they want directly from the Hospitallers.''

|}
''the fault of Enrico, not the priory. Gilbert will also try to protect Enrico. It will take some convincing for the Hospitallers to agree to give the property back. If the characters are respectable, the Hospitallers may also be disposed to agree to let them adopt Henry, if the characters are aware of him. Attempts to use magic (such as Mentem spells) on Hermann need to penetrate his Magic Resistance, and contend with the Dominion. If the characters do so, and try to use their magic to force Hermann to give orders that are obviously damaging to the priory community, it is possible that St. Ubaldesca will intervene on Hermann’s behalf. Each time Hermann is magically compelled to do something impious or against the interests of the priory, roll a stress die + Dominion Aura + Hermann’s Pious Personality Trait against an Ease Factor of 15 + a simple die. Hermann gets a +2 bonus for each additional act he is forced to perform past the first. If the total exceeds the Ease Factor, then St. Ubaldesca intervenes with her Grant Serenity power to dispel any Mentem effects. Brother Gilbert, of course, has no such Magic Resistance. The characters may also be introduced to Prior Fulk, through the Redcap Eleanor, asking to meet him, or through happenstance. Fulk has a similar attitude and reaction towards the covenant’s property and the characters as does Hermann and Gilbert, but if introduced to the characters by Eleanor he will be more helpful. However, the final decision on matters relating to property of the priory is made by Hermann.''

===Negotiating With Townsfolk===

''The town’s lord, Lord Thomas, is almost entirely powerless to assist the characters. Hospitallers have papal exemption from all spiritual and lay authority, so even if the town’s lord was inclined to help the characters, he has no power to demand that they return the covenant’s property. Furthermore, Lord Thomas is unlikely to want conflict with the powerful Hospitallers, who maintain a sizable armed force within the bounds of the town and possess a great deal of popularity with the town’s population. Geoffrey, the mayor, could also be approached by the characters for aid. Again, he is unable to give much assistance against the Hospitallers, and would not be inclined to cause the priory any trouble, as they are a wealthy and powerful organization in the town. If approached, he is likely to send a message to Constable Hermann about his conversation with the characters. This will tip off the Hospitallers that the characters are in town and are a potential source of trouble. If the characters speak to Geoffrey before''
''approaching the priory, then Hermann will have a full description of the characters (or at least the ones who spoke to Geoffrey) and their activities. If the characters mention the stolen property to Geoffrey, then this will also be transmitted to Constable Hermann, who will take the precaution of securing the property (located in the priory’s keep). Depending on the actions of the characters, the priory will be appropriately ready to respond.''

===Bringing in Bishop Christoforo===

''Bishop Christiforo is most sympathetic with the characters — he harbors a grudge against Prior Fulk and the Priory of St. Ubaldesca more generally. He has heard that the priory has come into great wealth from Enrico. If the characters or their servants are asking around about Enrico or the priory, his many servants and parishioners hear of this and bring it to his attention. Christoforo thus may ask to meet with the characters. Christoforo would only help the characters if they appear to be faithful Christians — outlandish characters, or magi with The Blatant Gift will not be given an audience with the bishop — although he will grudgingly help mages with The Gift, as his suspicions of them are outweighed by his view that an enemy of his enemy is his friend. Although he has no direct authority over the priory, he is looking for an excuse to bring them into disrepute. He would also readily tell the characters of the unorthodox behavior of Brother Fulk — treating women equally, maintaining friendships with heretics and other similarly unchristian activity, etc. The bishop is also looking to spread rumors that Brother Fulk and the other Hospitallers are sinfully fornicating with the nuns or servant women of the priory.''

==Stealth==

''The priory has no defenses against characters who are able to turn invisible, infiltrate the priory complex, and steal back the confiscated property from the keep. There are few locks in the priory, although most doors are barred from the inside. There are people awake in the priory most hours of the day and night, with at least two mercenaries acting as sentries and patrolling the grounds. There are also servants who check on the health of patients throughout the night. The brothers and sisters are also wake during the night for prayers and other activities. These obstacles could be easily overcome by a perceptive group of characters that has studied the routine of the priory.''
''If the characters have given anyone in the town reason to warn the priory, then the Hospitallers have taken the precaution of securing the property in the keep, which is regularly checked upon by guards. Likewise, Hermann increases the number of mercenaries or brothers involved in the patrols, if he suspects that there will be trouble.''

==Blackmail==

''Brother Fulk is in dispute with Bishop Christoforo, and behaves in an unorthodox manner. For most Christian inhabitants of Mythic Europe, his views would be considered outlandish or even dangerous. The Hospitallers also give a great deal of status to their Order’s sisters; in all other religious orders, it is highly unusual for brothers and sisters to eat together, and although they sleep in separate cells, their proximity is the cause of some criticism. Fulk’s beliefs on the status of women are not seen by many of the leadership of the Hospitallers as heretical, but Fulk is a vocal proponent on the equality of the sexes (which makes him very popular with many, but not all, of the town’s women). Fulk has also maintained friendships with excommunicates, and avowed heretics, which has enraged the town’s bishop and is a clear breach of canon law. Brother Fulk is able to get away with this because he is close friends with the Conventual Prior; the independent status of the Hospitallers, their popularity with most townsfolk, their wealth, and their military power also means that Brother Fulk can mostly get away with his views. Brother Hermann is broad minded, not an expert in canon law, and dislikes the bishop. The Hospitallers are not completely immune to scandal, however. Bishop Christoforo is eager to spread rumours that Brother Fulk and other Hospitallers are fornicators, regularly breaking their vow of chastity with the priory’s nuns and servant women. Fulk’s growing friendship with Eleanor has also been noticed by Christoforo. Characters who need leverage in their negotiations with the priory could use impropriety between them as a line of persuasion. Additionally, if the characters are Christians, then the fact that the Hospitallers stole their property is a major scandal (as well as a sin). The priory relies on regular donations and bequests from wealthy townsfolk and nobles. A sustained attack on the priory’s reputation could undermine the Hospital’s income base. If Constable Hermann has been previously unwilling to return the covenant’s property, the serious threat of damaging slander may see him willing to return the goods so as to avoid the scandal. Brother Gilbert will want to avoid any kind of scandal. Since he is very concerned with the influence and success of the priory, he will want to sweep away any indiscretions.''
''Of course, if the characters continue their attack, the Hospitallers, particularly Brother Gilbert, will look for their own dirt on the covenant or the individual characters.''

==Attack==

''The characters may decide to rush into the priory to seize back their property, or lose patience with a more cautious approach. If the Hospitallers have any reason to suspect that they are under threat, they are on guard; the brothers-at-arms are dressed in their armor, and the brother-sergeants are armed with crossbows. An unaware priory is still a formidable target — if attacked, the brothers quickly arm themselves, and gather at the chapel to receive orders and a blessing from Prior Fulk (whose Dominion Lore specialty is invoking God’s aid) that grants them a +2 Divine Aid bonus to all rolls made in defense of the priory, its patients, and its property. Attacking or infiltrating the priory at night, or in the early hours of the morning, is unlikely to see its inhabitants in bed or taken unawares. All of the brothers awake at Matins (2 am) for a spiritual reading, where they gather in the Hall for close to an hour. The brothers then rise again at Lauds (5 am), and assemble in the Hall at Prime (5:30 am). They have breakfast in the refectory after Mass at Terce (8 am). They retire at Compline (6:30 pm). For the rest of the day, they are engaged in their duties. Even when the brothers are in their cells, there are still guards who stand watch all night, as well as servants who patrol the hospital in case of an emergency. There are lamps and candles burning throughout the night, lighting the priory complex, the hospital, and the cells. The Hospitallers are a disciplined group of fighters. They quickly form trained groups of around five brothers and mercenaries, with a group of crossbowmen protected in the middle of the group. If there is room, they form larger untrained groups of 20 men (each group a mix of brotherknights, brother-sergeants, and mercenaries). Hospitallers fight to the death when they believe they are fighting infidels (although, of course, the mercenaries do not). Unless something in the behavior of the characters suggests to the Hospitallers that they are Muslims or diabolically led, the Hospitallers surrender or seek to parlay when half or more of them have suffered a Heavy Wound or greater. If the characters are attacking indiscriminately (for example, collateral damage is threatening the priory’s patients, nuns, or servants), the Hospitallers try to evacuate civilians to the safety of the keep. The keep is the refuge of last resort. Should a great many Hospitallers be suddenly or savagely wounded or incapacitated (for example, if the characters unleash a Ball of Abysmal Flame or a similarly destructive''
''spell), Hermann will pray to St. Ubaldesca for assistance. This prayer has the effect of activating his relic’s Mass Healing power, which miraculously restores to health any injured Hospitallers and civilians (although not wounded player characters or their allies). If there is no single moment where a large number of Hospitallers are injured, Hermann waits until after the battle to make a similar prayer, so it has no effect on the combat. There is also the complication of the presence of the Redcap Eleanor, who is recovering in the hospital. Eleanor is afforded some measure of protection from magic thanks to her magical device. If the characters enter the hospital, they may recognize her or know her through reputation (see ArM5, page 19). Likewise, Eleanor may recognize the characters; if so, she tries to stop the characters from continuing the attack, or, failing that, she helps protect the''
''hospital’s patients and other civilians from any collateral damage. If she is injured by any of the characters in the attack, she will prosecute them at the next Tribunal (and receives a great deal of support from House Mercere). If she is killed, House Mercere puts a great deal of effort into learning who was responsible, and the covenant is likely to face serious repercussions. A group of determined magi, or companions with the aid of destructive magical devices, should be able to make short work of the Hospitallers. Only Priory Constable Hermann and Prior Fulk are awarded any measure of protection from magic, and their first aim will be to protect or aid fallen brothers, rather than go into a suicidal rush against their attackers.''

==Consequences==

''The following issues might result from this scenario.''

==Enrico==

''Enrico can continue to be a thorn in the side of the covenant. If he was badly treated by the characters, he turns on them, trying to get influential mundanes to become antagonistic towards the covenant. For example, he could spread rumors about their godlessness or pagan beliefs, try to spoil relationships the covenant develops with other merchants and otherwise act as the Rival covenant Hook (see ArM5, page 73-74).''

==The Priory==

''The priory’s attitude towards the characters and the covenant depends on their actions. Their positive attitude is described under Rewards. If the characters end up with bad relations with the priory, then they could easily act as the Rival covenant Hook, like Enrico.''

==Bishop Christoforo==

''The bishop wants to regain his preeminent position within the town, and take down Prior Fulk and Constable Hermann in the eyes of the townsfolk. He can thus potentially be an ally of the characters, especially if they are in dispute with the priory.''

==Tales of Mythic Europe Rewards==

''There are three possible beneficial outcomes from this scenario: the return of the covenant’s confiscated property, a potential apprentice, and the good will of the Hospitallers. Henry would be an ideal apprentice. He has only learned his one Supernatural Ability to a basic level, and is intelligent. If he does become an apprentice, he should be given additional Virtues and Flaws relating to Hermetic magic and his apprenticeship, at the discretion of the storyguide (or troupe, if he becomes a player’s character). If the characters end up on good terms with the priory, they may be able to formally adopt Henry, so long as they promise to ensure his education and well being. Alterna''
''tively, the characters could abduct Henry and take him to the covenant. Since Eleanor planned on taking Henry for trade to another House, this could be the source of stories in the future. Finally, the characters may negotiate well with Hermann or Fulk (or both), and make a good impression. The Hospitallers are not automatically hostile to magicians, although they are suspicious of their motives. The priory is pragmatic enough to consider using magical aid in their crusade efforts — so long as they are assured that it is not in any way diabolical — and would be willing to pay handsomely. It can also source a great number of rare and valuable items from the Holy Land. Of course, the characters would need to carefully navigate the Code of Hermes with any aid they gave the Hospitallers.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
