
=The City of Brass=

''This adventure details the City of Brass, the fabled city of Arabic myth described in the 1,001 Nights. The player characters must visit the city to retrieve an item, and several options are provide to suggest an appropriate quest for your group. A journey into the heart of the Egyptian Sahara leads to a mystic gate, a''
''portal to an isolated region of the Magic Realm and the City of Brass. The journey to the city is only the beginning; the real challenge lies in escaping the city alive. Far from being abandoned, as the misleading legends suggest, the City of Brass is teeming with ‘afrit and jinn, magic creatures living in a complex society of inter''
''actions and intrigues. To accomplish their goals, the characters must navigate the Machiavellian schemes of the city’s inhabitants. Their actions can etch them a place in the folklore of coming ages, or dig them a grave that no mourner will find. The City of Brass is extremely dangerous. The journey alone can easily destroy''

==Prelude: The Tale as Told...==

''The City of Brass adventure is based on “The City of Brass” story, one of the many tales found in the 1,001 Nights, a collection of folklore found in Arabic speaking areas. Also referred to as The Arabian Nights, the tales are available in several modern translations. The following synopsis provides storyguides with the basic story. How much of this is shared with the players depends on the efforts their characters undertake in research and information gathering. A few hundred years ago in Damascus, Caliph ‘Abd-el-Melikat gave a feast for the great men of his empire. The assembled kings, sultans, sheiks, and scholars traded tales, and talk eventually turned to the fabled Brass Bottles of Solomon. The ancient prophet-king had used the bottles to imprison devils and wild jinn. Inspired, the Caliph ordered his Emir, Musa, to lead an expedition to find these bottles. Musa traveled to Egypt, and met the sheykh ‘Abd-EsSamad, a wise old mystic who told Musa that the bottles could be found in the City of Brass. He joined the expedition, and they traveled into the Sahara and discovered an abandoned palace made of marble. Deserted yet splendorous,''
''the marble palace’s walls and doors were inscribed with verses lamenting man’s mortality and extolling God’s eternal existence. The profoundly sad verses also told the palace’s history. In days long past, the area was ruled by King Kush, governor of Egypt during the reign of Alexander the Great. Musa discovered King Kush’s tomb, capped by an iron tablet inscribed with mystical glyphs and runes. Emir Musa removed the tablet and later presented it as a gift to his caliph. (The iron tablet of King Kush is an addition to the original story that provides a motivational hook to involve the player characters.) Leaving the tomb and city, the group found a road leading up a high ridge, where they discovered a statue of a brass horseman that pointed them towards the City of Brass. Along the trail they also passed a pillar of basalt, which served as a prison for a powerful jinni. Entrapped by Solomon for serving an idolatrous king, the jinni wails repentance as it waits for the end of days. Crossing the next ridge, Musa’s expedition discovered the City of Brass, protected by deadly traps and illusions. With ‘Abd-Es-Samad’s aid, Musa entered the city with minimal loses to his''
''party. Inside, the City of Brass was deserted, littered with the dry corpses of the former inhabitants, fallen as if calamity struck them in the midst of daily life. Alongside these gruesome souvenirs, the streets were lined with fruit-bearing trees and fountains of pure water. Riches of gold and jewels beyond comprehension lay scattered about. Musa found the city’s queen’s tomb, still protected by the guard’s corpses, decorated with inscriptions that told how the city’s food sources dwindled away, starving the citizens. The inscription also said that explorers might take whatever treasure they could carry, but forbade touching the jewels in the tomb. One greedy member of the group ignored this warning, and as soon as he began prying loose a jewel one of the corpse-guards spring to life and beheaded the thief. Leaving the tomb, Musa’s expedition returned to the caliph carrying all the wealth they could. Good fortune prevailed and Musa had found twelve brass bottles. The caliph opened each one, freeing the repentant ‘afrit, each of which extolled the greatness of God, and releasing them to the wilds.''
''a weak group of characters, and only the strongest spell-casters could survive the city if things go wrong. However, the City of Brass is not aimed exclusively at magus characters. Opportunities for companion and grog characters exist, and these tangential stories can easily contribute to the larger goals of the whole party. UnGifted companions and grogs might prove vital in surviving social interactions, particularly when ferreting out correct information from false and in seeking potential allies.''

==Motivations==

''The City of Brass story is a quest; player characters are asked to visit the city to find something important and return alive. The storyguide needs a suitable reason for their troupe to become interested, and the following three ideas may be used alone or in any combination that ignites a group’s interest. Selfmotivated players might be interested''
''in the adventure in and of itself. In the spirit of high adventure, similar to the motivation in many of the original stories, your magi might decide to visit the City of Brass of their own volition.''
''The Exotic Visitor''
''An elderly Egyptian Ex-Miscellanea magus named Ibrahim visits the covenant. He might be an old friend of one of the magi or merely a traveler asking for Hermetic hospitality. During dinner, he tells the characters the story of the City of Brass and reveals that ‘Abd-Es-Samad is the founder of his magical lineage. He emphasizes the Brass Bottles of Suleiman, saying that his recent research focuses on identifying the magical secrets of these non-Hermetic objects. He has been unsuccessful, his original research foiled by a long succession of fraudulent relics, unpromising leads, and malign faerie interventions. However, he has recently''
''acquired an authentic Brass Bottles of Solomon, and hopes it will provide the necessary Insight so that he can integrate Solomon’s magic with Hermetic magic (see the Integration rules in Ancient Magic, pages 7-9). If the magi take an interest in his research, Ibrahim shares his notes, hoping that together they might succeed where he alone has failed. He will not part with the bottle, but does allow others to experiment if he can assist in their lab. The bottle provides a single Insight, but for more Insight and Breakthrough points, the integrator needs more bottles, which can be found in the City of Brass. When the magi form an expedition to locate the City of Brass, Ibrahim expresses his sadness at not being able to participate. He is far too old to lead or even participate in the journey. He can provide an uncorrupted copy of 1,001 Arabian Nights, in Arabic, to aid magi in their quest. If the characters express no interest in an expedition, Ibrahim leaves after a few days. It may be years before they hear from him again, when he writes them a letter discussing his sadness at his limited progress with the relic, which he has confirmed to be authentic. Shortly afterward, they hear of his passing into Final Twilight and the Brass Bottle mysteriously arrives at the player’s covenant as a gift along with his blessing to use it as they will.''
''The Tablet of Iron''
''The covenant receives a strange and mystical iron tablet as a gift, payment of a debt, part of a legal settlement, or assignment for investigation. The tablet is inscribed in ancient Greek with a long flowing verse, lamenting the transience of the material world. The homily reads:''
''In the name of God, the Eternal, the Everlasting throughout all ages… … be admonished by the misfortunes and calamities that thou beholdest, and be not deceived by the world and its beauty, and its''
''falsity and calumny, and its fallacy and finery; for it is a flatterer, a cheat, a traitor. Its things are borrowed, and it will take the loan from the borrower…''
''The verse extols the greatness of God, who alone is eternal and infinite, and describes the riches and wealth of a great kingdom, laid to ruin by the encroaching Sahara. The author ends his verse with his signature and seal: King Kush. This is the fabled lid of his sarcophagus, taken by Musa and presented to his caliph as a gift to inspire wisdom. Musa did not realize that the tablet also acted as a magical ward that protected the corpse from malevolent spirits. The strange glyphs and arcane symbols suggest that the magic was a non-Hermetic spell, equivalent to a high level Rego Vim effect. Intellego Vim spells cannot find any traces of magic, the residue of the effect having long since dissipated, but magi may accurately guess that the spell was broken when the table was removed from the sarcophagus. With the tablet removed, the dead king’s spirit was vulnerable to the City of Brass’s jinn, and the ruler of the ‘Afrit, the Malik, took the king’s remains and holds King Kush’s ghost hostage. Other ghosts loyal to King Kush, especially his son Prince Keshan, want to liberate their king. The prince believes that whoever has the tablet has the power to free his father, and following vague, mystical visions he has been seeking the tablet’s owner. The process has been difficult, as the tablet has changed hands many times over the years and the visions are hazy. Recently, Keshan’s visions have guided his soldiers as far as the covenant, but he is unsure how to proceed next. Once the magi receive the tablet, the ghosts locate the covenant and repeatedly try to enter. They are unlikely to be able to cross the Aegis and their pleas in Greek or Arabic are unlikely to be understood by the covenfolk. This does not discourage them, and they continue to try to communicate their intent''
''to the magi, returning again and again until dealt with. Although relatively weak compared to the magi, their numbers are considerable and the effect they have on the local mundane population provokes a situation that the magi cannot afford to ignore for long. Until the''
''reason for their visitations is uncovered, these specters haunt and terrorize the area around the covenant, drawing unwanted attention from the local nobility, the church, and possibly the Quaesitors. Simply handing the tablet over to the ghosts is not an option, for they are''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Mythic Nights: Ideas for Inquisitive Magi==

''In Mythic Europe, the stories of 1,001 Nights contain a mixture of truth, half-truths, and total fabrications. Few collections tell the tales the same way, misleading readers with conflicting particulars to the stories. Magi might seek out these tales before an expedition to the City of Brass. Collections can be found in the libraries of Andalusia and other Iberian cities, but are rare in other parts of Mythic Europe. A few copies might exist in Hermetic circles. The Merinita-based Keepers of the Thousand Tales believes that re-enacting stories promotes the immortality of faeries associated with the tales,(Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 81). In this case, what this has actually done is create and perpetuate faerie copies of the Magic jinn and ‘afrit. Libraries with a small or incomplete collection may exclude the City of Brass story, but larger collections contain the''
''tale. Most texts are in Arabic, requiring a score of 4 in Arabic to study. Latin copies are rare, and a magus who owns one will certainly demand favors for its use. Each text of collected tales counts as a tractatus on Faerie Lore, Infernal Lore, or Magic Lore, with particular reference to the jinn and other supernatural aspects of Islamic folklore. An encyclopedia collecting all of these tales would contain fifteen tractatus, but no such book presently exists in Mythic Europe. The moral of the City of Brass story is simple: man’s creations must eventually fall and only God is eternal. There is a deeper theme within the tale. Medieval Arabic writers knew that the Sahara was expanding, slowly overtaking and swallowing cities and small kingdoms and growing in heat and intensity. The history of both the marble palace and City of Brass reminds readers of this ever growing threat.''

==A Bibliography for Storyguides==

''Modern English translations of The Arabian Nights are easy to find, and most include the City of Brass story. The website www.wollamshram. ca/1001/ compiles texts from various translators: Burton, Lane, Payne, and Speke. “The City of Brass” story is found in the sixth volume of the Burton translation. While colorful, Burton’s translation includes sensational elements popular during the time of his writing. The more recent twovolume Everyman’s Library edition by Husain Haddawy is considered a more accurate translation.''
''The single volume Penguin Classics version edited by William Harvey is a reasonable starting place and provides an introduction to the wider corpus of stories. The three-volume set and its accompanying treatise “The Arabian Nights: A Companion”, edited by Robert Irwin, is recommended for those who wish to delve into the tales in greater depth. Further details on the Mythic Middle East, jinn, and sahir can be found in The Cradle and the Crescent for troupes wishing to expand on the level of detail presented here.''

|}
''incorporeal and cannot physically return it to its rightful place. Disposing of it elsewhere is problematic. The ghosts follow the tablet, which might cause problems depending on where the tablet is placed. This could be traced back to the magi and may draw Hermetic investigation. A better solution is for the magi to return the iron tablet to the Marble Palace and recap the king’s sarcophagus. The ghosts can directly ask the magi to do this, as it is what they want to happen. The ghosts can lead the magi to the Marble Palace, where Prince Keshan’s ghost beseeches the magi to retrieve his father’s corpse. To rescue King Kush’s corpse the magi must enter the City of Brass, and recover the corpse through force or negotiation with the Malik of the ‘Afrit. If the magi are unwilling to assist Prince Keshan, he refuses to call off the specters or captures valued members of their expedition and holds them hostage until the magi cooperate. The iron tablet might be an active Arcane Connection to the tomb of the Marble Palace, or the storyguide might rule that the link has faded during the intervening centuries, depending on which option best suits the troupe and the implementation of this story.''
''Little Lost Brass Bottle''
''The magi come into the possession of an authentic Brass Bottle of Solomon. This may be a gift from Ibrahim (see The Exotic Visitor, earlier), or acquired in whatever way makes most sense for your troupe. Analyzing the bottle in the lab, the magi may purposefully or accidentally release the imprisoned ‘afrit (this could be the result of a “Special or Story Event” on the Experimentation & Extraordinary Results table). If released inside an area protected by an Aegis of the Hearth, the ‘afrit’s power is limited, which sours his attitude towards the “rescuer.” Alternatively, if the bottle is discovered by a curious grog, companion, or apprentice, it may be opened unwittingly.''
''This option may be more interesting for some troupes as it allows the involvement of non-magi in the story, particularly if the ‘afrit is released outside the covenant and the magi only learn of it after the fact. The released ‘afrit, Jawal al-’Afrit, is brash but friendly. He enjoys provoking people and instigating trouble. A sly collaborator and selfish opportunist, he has a madcap and reckless zeal for adventure. He claims that he needs the characters’ help returning home, and tries to entice the characters to take him there with tales of the riches and splendor of the City of Brass. This is a lie, for he returns to his tower in the City of Brass whenever he is closed inside his bottle. However, if the bottle is left with him in the city, he doesn’t have to deal with people conjuring and commanding him anymore. The bottle is the authentic work of Solomon, and Jawal must obey the commands of whoever releases him, though he can twist the wording and has wide discretion as to how he goes about his task. Jawal is mischievous, not malicious. He likes to see others get into trouble, but not come to grievous harm. However, he gladly manipulates others for his benefit. It takes a clever and powerful magus to tame Jawal. Tailor the personality and power level of Jawal to suit the capabilities and interests of the players and characters. If they are the compassionate sort, present as Jawal humble and generous, earnestly requesting the magi set him free by taking his bottle to the City of Brass. If they are selfish and callous, make Jawal a clever mastermind who uses trickery to get his way. If they are freewheeling adventurers, then Jawal becomes a magical friend who causes all sorts of incidental troubles. He could inspire this story with his many tales, as well as further adventures in the Mythic Middle East. The bottle could also be the faulty work of lesser magic, which means Jawal can act as he wishes when released. It may still be possible to befriend or try to''
''tame him, or the ‘afrit may feign obedience in order to trick his “master” into serving his purposes or to lure him to his doom. He may simply abduct some of the characters to be sold as slaves in the City of Brass, and the other characters have to travel there to rescue them.''

==Jinn and Brass Bottles==

''Jinn (singular jinni) and ‘afarit (singular ‘afrit) are central to this story, as are the brass bottles in which Solomon bound them. This section provides enough information to run this story, but much more can be found in Chapter 4 of The Cradle and the Crescent.''

==The Brass Bottles of Solomon==

''God gave King Solomon dominion over the Jinn and the wild spirits. Solomon used this power to tame them, imprisoning many demons and rebellious jinn within brass bottles, each stopped with lead and imprinted with Solomon’s seal. Defeating the ‘afarit of the City of Brass in a great war, Solomon imprisoned them in bottles and then cast the bottles into the sea. Over the ages, fishers along the African Mediterranean coast occasionally catch the bottles in their nets. The released ‘afrit usually creates a magnificent show of light and smoke, crying repentance and begging for release. The spectator is usually awed, grants the request, and the ‘afrit fades away. The bottle is closed, forgotten about, and tossed back into the sea. This is exactly what the ‘afarit want people to do. The magic of Solomon, which binds them to the bottle, cannot be broken so easily, but as long as the bottle is sealed the ‘afarit dwell in the''
''City of Brass, in the Magic Realm, and go about their lives there. They cannot leave the city unless summoned to the mundane realm by someone opening their bottle. However, if they are so summoned, they must obey the commands of the one who holds the bottle. The ‘afarit have spread the legend that they must complete three tasks, but in reality they must obey the holder of the bottle for as long as he holds the bottle. The ‘afarit are able to interpret the command, but they may not disobey. They are not bound by impossible commands, nor can they be commanded to destroy themselves. They can be commanded to return to the bottle, which has much the same effect as far as the mundane realm is concerned. All Magic jinn are a type of genius loci, but the magic of Solomon made the brass bottle the locus of the ‘afrit bound within. An ‘afrit within shouting distance of its bottle is immune to Acclimation from being in a weak Magic aura, but, as a genius loci, the ‘afrit cannot normally go any further from the bottle, and it can only regain Might while within the bottle, and thus in the Magic Realm. The magic of Solomon means that an ‘afrit cannot move its own bottle, although it can hold it, as long as it does not move. Solomon’s binding also means that the ‘afrit can travel any''
''distance from the bottle or carry the holder of the bottle to fulfill a command from the holder of the bottle. While the bottle is sealed, the ‘afrit is in the Magic Realm, not literally inside the bottle, so the bottle can be carried through an Aegis of the Hearth or a ward that would exclude the ‘afrit were he present. Opening the bottle summons the ‘afrit, bringing it to the mundane world through the bottle, so that it does not have to cross any ward or Aegis that the bottle is within. However, a ‘afrit summoned into an Aegis is affected by the ritual’s suppression of magic within the area. The ability to command the ‘afrit is not affected by an Aegis, as it is the result of a ritual effect created long ago. There is no easy way for anyone other than the ‘afrit bound into the bottle to use the bottle as a path to the Magic Realm. However, Hermetic research may be able to find a way, particularly if you want to make access to the City of Brass easy in your saga. As a further complication, Solomon bound many spirits besides jinn, including ghosts, demons, and even ancient non-Hermetic sorcerers. He also used objects other than bottles, notably oil lamps and rings; these often need to be rubbed to summon the jinni. Beings other than ‘afarit await the sum''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Typical ‘Afrit of the City of Brass==

''In the City of Brass, characters will encounter the ‘afrit everywhere they go. Up and down the avenues they encounter jinn going about their daily business, shoppers going to market, and merchants in stores or pushing mobile carts selling exotic wares to each other for strange prices. With the exception of the Malik, the City of Brass is neither the Locus nor the associated terrain for their Way of Land Virtue for any of these jinn. For the most part, the Loci of these ‘afarit are Brass Bottles somewhere in the''
''mundane world, and Way of the Land is associated with the desert. The bottles form Vestiges in the city in the form of the various towers and other buildings, and these ‘afarit dwell here in the city when they are sealed away in the bottles. They can roam anywhere in the city and outside the walls as long as they are within sight of the twin Brass Towers. They are prohibited from going any further unless someone opens their bottle in the mundane world, or someone makes a magical bargain with them that allows them to travel.''

|}

==Character Guide: Typical ‘Afrit==

''Magic Might: 15 (Ignem) Locus: a Brass Bottle of Solomon Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com –1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex –1, Qik +1 Size: +1 Season: Winter Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit (Jinni); Arcane Lore, Educated, Large, Warrior; Greater Malediction (Bound in Bottle), Magical Air*; (Minor Personality Flaw) Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power, Greater Immunity (Heat & Flames), Greater Powers (x2), No Fatigue, Ritual Power, Ways of the Desert; Gift of Tongues, Improved Powers (x2), Lesser Powers (x3), Personal Powers (x2), Second Sight, Variable Powers (x2); Greater Malediction (bound by bargains), Monstrous Appearance; Reduced Abilities (x10), Restricted Power Personality Traits: *Crafty +2 (applies to Communication to twist wordings of agreements), Brave +1, Loyal -1 *	 Essential Trait Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +6, Damage +2 Scimitar: Init +3, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +8  (Combat scores may need to be adjusted for the size of the form the jinni takes. Each point of increase subtracts 1 from both Initiative and Defense, but adds +2 to Damage.) Soak: +2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) *	 Injury increments may need to be adjusted for the size he takes Abilities: Arabic 5 (clever wordplay), Artes Liberales 1 (astronomy), Athletics 2 (leaping), Awareness 2''
''(alert), Bargain 4 (services), Brawl 4 (fistfight), Concentration 2 (powers), Dominion Lore 1 (Solomon), Finesse 2 (precision), Folk Ken 2 (desires), Guile 4 (twisted wording), Infernal Lore 1 (Iblis), Leadership 3 (intimidation), Magic Lore 3 (jinn), Penetration 2 (Lord of Fire), Second Sight 4 (spirits), Shapeshifter 3 (fiery being), Single Weapon 4 (scimitar), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Corporeal Veil of the Jinn, 0 points, Init –4, Corpus:  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  This power gives the ‘afrit the Major Virtue: Shapeshifter and the Ability Shapeshifter 1. The ‘afrit can take as many forms as he has points in the Ability. Most ‘afarit’s first form is that of a monstrous man, which can range in Size from +4 to —5. Additional forms include smoky vapor, a stationary stone pillar, and a spinning column of fire. At higher scores, they may start to choose the forms of animals or alternate personae. No matter which form they take though, they are easily identified. See the section on Jinn, earlier, for more details on this power.  As smoky vapor, the ‘afrit cannot be harmed or restrained by physical means. It can squeeze through the tiniest cracks, and solid objects pass right through it. As vapor, the ‘afrit moves slowly and for the most part cannot participate in physical combat.  As a stone pillar, the ‘afrit is rooted to the ground, cannot move, and is immune to most physical damage. It is easily mistaken for a mundane pillar carved to resemble a grotesque humanoid.  As a whirling column of fire, the''
''‘afrit immune to most physical harm, but can be doused and is easier to restrain. The heat inflicts +10 damage to anything in direct contact with the ‘afrit. This is also added as a damage bonus in combat.  No Hermetic Equivalent; Greater Power (50 levels, -5 cost); Variable Power; Restricted Power (all forms have an identifying trait) Domination, 1 or more points, Init –4, Mentem  R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind  Some ‘afarit have the power to control people’s minds and emotions using their voices. Once initiated, there is no limit to the distance that may separate the ‘afrit from its subject. The effect lasts for a duration of Sun, but may be perpetuated by spending a point of Might at sunrise and sunset. The ‘afrit can control multiple people, and can affect multiple targets at once by spending 1 point of Might per person.  ReMe50 (Base 30, +1 Eye, +2 Sun, +1 Flexibility); Greater Power (50 levels) Fabricator of (Form), Variable points, Init –9  R: Touch or Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind or Group  Many Jinn have the power to conjure material items that are real, in much the same way as Hermetic Creo Rituals. This power allows a jinni to create inanimate goods within a specific Form, and the power may be taken multiple times to cover multiple Forms. The jinni chooses if the fabricated goods are permanent or merely last a month. If permanent, the power’s cost permanently reduces the jinni’s Magic Might. The cost is 1 point per Magnitude of the effect, and the maximum effect is equal to the jinni’s Might or 25, whichever is lower.''

==Character Guide: Typical ‘Afrit (cont’d)==

''Cr(Form); Ritual Power Fiery Aura of the ‘Afrit, 0 points, Init –2, Ignem  R: Touch, D: Diam, T: Ind  An ‘afrit can engulf himself in a coat of flame that does him no harm but sets fire to things he touches and inflicts +5 fire damage. This is added as a bonus to combat while in corporeal form. In vapor form he becomes a hot sulphurous smoke that causes people to choke and gag, requiring a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 3 to avoid losing a Fatigue level (taking Light Wounds once all Fatigue is lost). If in the form of a stone pillar, the ‘afrit is engulfed (cont/d) in flame and those close enough to touch it take +5 damage. As a column of fire, the ‘afrit’s heat damage increases by +5.  CrIg 10 (Base 5, +1 Conc); Lesser Power (1 levels, –3 cost) Flight, 1 point, Init –5, appropriate Form  R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind  Many jinn have the power to fly. Some jinn are carried off by a whirlwind, others call forth clouds that carry them into the sky, some have wings that seem too small to carry them, and other jinn may roll out a rug and call it a flying carpet. No matter the method, it is but a cosmetic personalization and the effect is the same. The jinni is able to carry others along up to the limit of his Strength.  ReIg 15 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun); Lesser Power (15 levels, –2 cost) Invisibility, 1 point, Init 0, Imaginem  Some jinn have the power to become invisible and can remain so for as long as they choose.  (Base 4, +3 Constant, +1 changing image); Personal Power (20 levels, –1 cost) Jinni’s Leap, 0 points, Init -1, Corpus  Many jinn can transport instantly''
''to any location they can perceive, up to 50 paces distant.  ReCo15 (Base 15); Personal Power (15 levels, –2 cost) Lord of Fire, points equal to Magnitude, Init + (1 – Magnitude), Ignem  ‘Afrit can duplicate Creo Ignem and Rego Ignem spells up to level 25.  Focus Power (25 levels) Seer of Fire, points equal to Magnitude, Init + (1 – Magnitude), Ignem  The ‘afrit can duplicate Intellego Ignem spells up to level 25. The necessary condition is that it must gaze into a fire or inhale smoke.  Focus Power (25 levels, Restricted Power) Smite with Fire, 3 points, Init –7, Ignem  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  Powerful ‘afrit have the power to unleash a fiery blast at will. The form and shape depends on the ‘afrit’s personality; from a bolt to a jet streaking out forth from it, to a column that drops on its opponent or a fireball that explodes on impact. These differences are all cosmetic and the effect is the same, inflicting +15 fire damage upon the target.  CrIg20 (Base 10, +2 Voice); Lesser Power (20 levels, –1 cost)  (The point costs and Initiatives of the Powers have not taken into account the ‘afrit’s two Improved Powers Magical Qualities, which gives the ‘afrit 10 mastery points. 1 mastery point can reduce a power’s cost by 1 or improve its Initiative by 1. Select which powers to modify to personalize each individual ‘afrit. 1 mastery point can also be converted into 5 experience points, which the ‘afrit may spend on Spell Mastery for its powers.) Equipment: sparse clothing, jewelry, scimitar Encumbrance: 0''
''Vis: When slain the ‘afrit leaves behind a lump of coal, containing 3 pawns of Ignem vis. Appearance: The most common appearance of an ‘afrit is that of a large muscular man, with dark red or black skin, gleaming eyes, wild hair, jagged teeth, horns, and sometimes wings. ‘Afrit are often mistaken for demons.''
''Using Realms of Power: Magic, the Typical ‘Afrit Character Guide template was generated as a Winter Character with a base Might score of 15, taking the Minor Inferiority of Reduced Abilities multiple times to balance out the Powers and other Qualities. This makes it easy to generate more powerful ‘afrit by assigning them a higher Might score and removing Reduced Abilities multiple times for more experience points. New Qualities may be chosen as well for additional Powers, more experience points, and so forth. Most ‘afrit have a Might score between 15 to 25, while the nobility ranges between 30 and 45 and the Malik has a Might of 50 Each ‘afrit needs only a name and a Minor Personality Flaw for individual distinction. Further individualization can be made with minor Virtues and Flaws modifications. For example, Kabira the Seeress has the Virtues of Intuition and Premonitions, but lacks the Virtues of Warrior and Large. Her Minor Personality Flaw is Busybody, and she also has the Visions Flaw. Finally, she has Privileged Upbringing, in essence freeing up experience points for a Premonitions score of 4. Characteristic points can be rearranged. For example. Kabria has Intelligence +2, Communication +1, Strength +1, and Stamina +1. Whatever the modifications, Qualities, Inferiorities, and Powers remain consistent.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Afdal-Kathir, the Malik’s Champion==

''Magic Might: 40 (Ignem) Modified Characteristics: Pre +2, Sta +3, Dex +2 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Modified Virtues & Flaws: Magical Champion, Affinity with Single Weapon, Essential Virtue: Fierce Fighter (+3 Dexterity in combat), Puissant Single Weapon, Self-Confident, Tough; Wrathful (major), Curse of Venus, Proud (minor), Oversensitive Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: Add Greater Immunity to steel weapons; Improved Abilities (x3), Improved Characteristics (x3), Improved Powers (x2). Remove Reduced Abilities (x8)''
''Personality Traits: Hubris +3, Wrathful+3, Fierce Fighter +3 (Dexterity), Crafty +2 (Communication), Easily Offended +2, Loyal +2 Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +2 Scimitar: Init +3, Attack +20, Defense +13, Damage +9 Soak: +10 Modified Abilities: Area Lore: City of Brass 3 (garrison), Athletics 4 (leaping), Awareness 4 (combat), Brawl 7 (fistfight), Carouse 3 (drinking songs), Concentration 4 (powers), Dominion Lore 3 (Solomon), Faerie Lore 3 (Arabic), Finesse 5 (precision), Guile 3 (twisted wording), Infernal''
''Lore 3 (Iblis), Leadership 4 (intimidation), Magic Lore 5 (jinn), Penetration 5 (Smite with Fire), Second Sight 5 (spirits), Single Weapon 8+2 (scimitar) Modified Powers: Fiery Aura of the ‘Afrit, Init –1 Lord of Fire, Multicast, Penetration Smite with Fire, 0 points, Fast Cast, Multicast Equipment: Clothing, jewelry, partial scale armor, two brass scimitars Vis: 8 pawns of Ignem vis Appearance: Afdal-Kathir’s handsomeness appeals to the wrong sort of lady. He dresses in finery and caries himself with a regal demeanor.''

==Amina, the Malik’s daughter==

''Magic Might: 35 (Ignem) Modified Characteristics: Int +2, Pre +4, Com +1, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: +0 Confidence Score: 2 (5) Modified Virtues & Flaws: Add Gentlewoman, Improved Characteristics (x3), Self-Confident, Venus’ Blessing; Indiscreet; Non-Combatant.  Remove Large and Warrior.  Replace Lecherous with Proud. Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: Add Greater Immunity (steel weapons); Improved Abilities (x2), Increased Might (x4), Remove Reduced Abilities (x9) Personality Traits: Crafty +3 (Communication), Proud +3, Brave –1, Loyal –2 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Defense +7''
''Soak: +2 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Modified Abilities: Area Lore: City of Brass 2 (aristocracy), Artes Liberales 4 (astronomy), Awareness 3 (opportunity), Brawl 4 (dodge), Carouse 3 (games), Charm 4 (men), Concentration 3 (powers), Dominion Lore 3 (Solomon), Etiquette 4 (courtly), Faerie Lore 3 (Arabic), Finesse 5 (grace), Folk Ken 4 (desires), Infernal Lore 3 (Iblis), Intrigue 4 (plots), Magic Lore 5 (jinn), Penetration 4 (Domination), Philosophiae 3 (metaphysics), Shapeshifter 5 (persona); Remove Single Weapon Modified Powers: Corporeal Veil of the Jinn;''
''Amina has the additional forms of a serpent and a beautiful young maiden. Flight, 0 points, Init 0 Domination, Init 0 Vis: 2 pawns of Rego and 5 pawns of Ignem Appearance:  In her preferred form, as a maiden, Amina’s appearance is flawless, but still horrifying. If Amina is in sight, but not the focus of attention, viewers seem to glimpse hideous deformities or monstrous features, but when they look to check, they see nothing but a beautiful young woman. Similarly, if they are concentrating on part of her body, such as her face or hands, they catch glimpses of horrors in other parts of her body, which are not there when they look.''

|}
''mons in different supernatural realms, and the nature of that realm may make some eager to be summoned, even if they must serve. Other types of enchanted binding exist. Bottles created by lesser wizards are greatly inferior and follow different rules. Hermetic magi have a Muto Vim spell called The Wicked Jar (Realms of Power: Infernal, page 122), and Hermetic Sahir may develop a similar spell called Jar of Suleiman. There are also Hermetic Spirit Mysteries and the Goetic Art of Binding. All of these forms of magic function according to their own rules, but none duplicate all the powers of King Solomon’s bottles. Indeed, the spirit may well be able to act however it wishes once released. Lesser enchantments would explain stories in which a trapped jinni is released from a bottle only to destroy his releaser. Faerie duplicates exist as well, because stories about these bottles have given rise to faerie imposters. Curcubites (or “Bottles of Solomon”) are unique faeries that take the form of the bottle itself and create a fantastic show of imagery when opened. They gain vitality''
''from the sense of awe and wonder created (see The Cradle and the Crescent, page 66). Other faerie jinn grant three wishes, doing so in such a way as to teach a greater moral lesson. Duplicating Solomon’s magic may be impossible. It would be considered at least a Hermetic Breakthrough, and may require Integration (or Initiation) of other forms of non-Hermetic Magic first. Since Solomon’s power over the jinn was granted by God, this may well be considered a form of Holy Magic as well.''
''''

==A Note on Jinn==

''Many of the antagonists in this adventure are Magic jinn, a type of spirit common to Islamic folklore. ‘Afarit are a type of jinni, often aligned with the Form Ignem but not always. As beings of the Magic realm, ‘afarit and jinn are uninterested in the affairs of mankind and indifferent to the words of the Prophet. At best they fear the Divine and give token reverence, but many are outright pagans with heathen habits. When corporeal,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Za’al-Zoresh, the Grand-Vizier==

''Magic Might: 30 (Ignem) Modified Characteristics: Int +4, Per +1, Com +1, Str +1 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Modified Virtues & Flaws: add Gentleman, Great Intelligence, Student of Magic Realm, Ambitious (major), plus Busybody Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: add Focus Power (x3), Greater Power; Improved Abilities (x10), Improved Characteristics (x3), Improved Powers (x2); Restricted Power, Slow Power; Remove Reduced Abilities (x10) Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Crafty +3 (Communication), Ruthless +2, Nosy +2''
''Combat: Knife: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +0 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Modified Abilities: Area Lore: City of Brass 4 (aristocracy), Area Lore: Egypt 5 (ancient days), Artes Liberales 5 (logic), Concentration 4 (powers), Dominion Lore 4 (Solomon), Etiquette 3 (courtly), Finesse 4 (grace), Faerie Lore 4 (Arabic), Folk Ken 4 (desires), Greek 4 (written), Guile 5 (twisted wording), Infernal Lore 4 (Iblis), Intrigue 6 (plots), Magic Lore 6+2 (jinn), Penetration 4 (Seer of Fire), Philosophiae 4 (metaphysics), Profession: Scribe 4 (copy), Second Sight 5''
''(spirits), Shapeshifter 6 (persona), Theology: Islam 3 (jinn) Modified Powers: Corporeal Veil of the Jinn, Init +1 Za’al-Zoresh has the additional forms of an asp, a vulture, and an Arab scholar. Domination, 1 or more points, Init +0, Multicast Lord of Fire, Taken twice, Za’al-Zoresh can duplicate Creo and Rego Ignem spells up to level 50 Seer of Fire, Taken twice, Za’al-Zoresh can duplicate Intellego Ignem spells up to level 50 Vis: 4 Intellego, 6 Ignem Appearance: Za’al-Zoresh appears scholarly, with flowing robes and a long white beard.''

==Ihab Ia’ara, an ‘Afrit Merchant==

''Modified Characteristics: Com +1, Str +1 Modifications to Virtues & Flaws: add Merchant, Puissant Bargain, Minor Essential Flaw: Poor Fighter (–3 Dexterity in combat), plus Avarice (minor) Personality Traits: Avarice +3, Decorous +3, Crafty +2 (Communication), Loyal+1, Brave –1, Poor Fighter –3 (Dexterity) Modified Abilities: Bargain 4+2 (sell),''
''Brawl 3 (wrestle), Charm 2 (wit), Farie Lore 1 (artifacts), Guile 4 (half truths) Equipment: Fine robes, jewelry, knife, cart of mysterious wares. Appearance: Ihab has red skin and the devilish appearance common for an ‘afrit, yet his demeanor instantly indicates his role as a merchant. He dresses in fine silk robes and wears many jewels.''

|}
''jinn are fond of luxury and indulge in extravagant eating and drinking, wearing scandalous clothing, and displaying immodest manners. Jinn of the wild are elemental spirits of the land, usually tied to some natural feature such as an oasis, a mountain, or a stretch of desert. This sort of jinni is a true genius loci. As such, it cannot venture far from the land it is bound to unless it forms a magical bargain or is somehow coerced. These are the sorts of jinn that are of the most interest to the Sahirs (both Hermetic''
''and non-Hermetic), and are easy to identify as jinn using Magic Lore or an appropriate Area Lore. These wild spirits are the most primal manifestation of the jinn. By comparison, the bottled jinn seem tamed by civilization. All Jinn have the Free Virtue of Magic Spirit (Jinni), which includes the effects of Magical Air. All Jinni also have the Major Virtue of Ways of the (Land) plus the Major Flaw of Greater Malediction: Bound by Bargains. Since these two are universal to all jinn, the ‘afarit presented here have tak''
''en these as a Major Quality and a Major Inferiority. This is to make it easy to create a wide variety of different ‘afrit characters based on a simple template and some notes on specific individuals (Characteristics, Virtues, Flaws, and any additional Abilities &/or Powers). Magical Characters are able to take General and Supernatural Virtues and Flaws as Qualities and Inferiorities. A bottled jinni must take Greater Malediction (Bound in Bottle) as a Major Flaw. Jinn often possess a wide variety of powers, including taking material form,''

==Al-Malik ‘Izz-Doresh al-Dahish ibn El-A’mash al-’Afrit==

''Magic Might: 50 (Ignem) Locus: City of Brass Modified Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +3, Com +1, Str +7, Sta +5, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: +4 (as manifested) Confidence Score: 5 (11) Modified Virtues & Flaws: Add Daimon, Great Stamina (x2), Improved Characteristics (x3), Magical Master, Puissant Leadership, Self Confident, Magical Monster, Major Essential Flaw (Easily Amused), Wrathful (major), and Close Family Ties; plus Oversensitive  (note that this places the Malik above the normal Virtue & Flaw limit, but they are still balanced) Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: add Greater Immunity to steel weapons, Greater Power (x2), Focus Power (x3), Sihr, Vis Mastery, Improved Abilities (x12), Improved Characteristics (x3), Improved Confidence (x3), Improved Powers (x6), Personal Power (x2), Variable Power, Restricted Power, and Remove Reduced Abilities (x10). Ways of the (Land) pertains to the City of Brass. Personality Traits: Easily Amused +6 (–6 to Intelligence to pay attention or make good decisions when''
''being entertained), Wrathful +5, Fierce +3 (Essential Trait, +3 to Strength when overcoming opposition), Brave +2, Loyal +1 Reputations: Mighty 4, Fierce 3, Easily Distracted by Entertainment 2 Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +7 Scimitar: Init +2, Attack +12, Defense +7, Damage +13 Soak: +5 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–9), –3 (10–18), –5 (19–27), Incapacitated (28–36), Dead (37+) Modified Abilities: Area Lore: City of Brass 4 (politics), Area Lore: Egypt 4 (ancient days), Artes Liberales 4 (astronomy), Awareness 3 (treachery), Bargain 5 (magical bargains), Brawl 5 (fist), Carouse 3 (power drinking),  Charm 3 (impress), Concentration 4 (powers), Dominion Lore 4 (Solomon), Etiquette 4 (courtly), Faerie Lore 4 (jinn), Finesse 3 (grace), Folk Ken 3 (desires), Guile 5 (twisted truth), Infernal Lore 3 (Iblis), Intrigue 5 (plots), Leadership 5+2 (jinn), Magic Lore 6 (jinn), Penetration 4 (Ignem), Philosophiae 4 (moral), Profession: King 5 (feasts), Second Sight 5 (spirits), Shapeshifter 5 (persona), Sihr 18 (‘afarit), Sin''
''gle Weapon 5 (scimitar) Modified and Unique Powers: Aura of Fear, 0 points, Init n/a, Mentem  R: Per, D: Constant, T: Spectacle  The Malik emanates an aura of awe and fear. This must Penetrate, and those who are affected to refuse to approach him unless they make a successful Brave Personality trait roll against an Ease Factor of 12.  CrMe35 (Base 4, +3 Constant, +4 Spectacle); Personal Power (35 levels, -4 cost) Corporeal Veil of the Jinn, In addition to the standard forms, The Malik can assume the shape of a lynx and an ancient Phoenician prince. He can vary his Size to as large as +6 or as small as –9. Domination, 1 or more points, Multicast, Penetration Fabrication As a variable power, the Malik is able to craft fabrications up to a level of his Might score of 50. Fiery Aura of the ‘Afrit, 0 points Flight, 0 points, Fast Cast King of Fire, points equal to magnitude, Init (– Magnitude), Ignem  The Malik has spontaneous magical power as defined by a Major Magic Focus in Fire. The maximum level of effect is 50, and he can use the Mastery Abilities''
''flying, invisibility, and conjuring wealth and other items. Jinn also often possess powers with one or more elemental Forms (matching the alignment of its Might score). The template presents powers typical of an ‘afrit from the City of Brass, and other common powers of higher ranking ‘afrit are described in individual entries. Not all jinn are aligned with the Magic Realm. There are Faerie Jinn, as mentioned, but there are also Jinn affiliated with the Infernal Realm. Further details, as well as guidelines for creating''
''jinn aligned to other supernatural realms and additional examples, are provided in The Cradle and the Crescent, Chapter four.''

==The Corporeal Forms of Jinn==

''The corporeal form of a jinni is considered part of its Essential Nature. It can maintain this form indefinitely and dissolve it at will. Though created by magic,''
''it is considered a natural body and not repelled by Magic Resistance. Indeed, jinn can mate with humans and produce children with magical blood. While in corporeal form, a jinni must eat, breathe, and sleep, just like a human being, and killing the corporeal body destroys the jinni. A jinni knows this weakness and will change into its spirit form to avoid death. The jinn presented here have the Variable Power Virtue and Restricted Power Flaw in conjunction with the pow''

==Al-Malik ‘Izz-Doresh al-Dahish ibn El-A’mash al-’Afrit (cont’d)==

''of Fast Cast, Imperturbable, and Multicast, as if he had a Mastery score of 4. This counts as two Focus Powers taken together, each increased to level 50 and Mastery Abilities taken twice.  Focus Power (2 x 50 levels; 2 x each: Fast Cast, Multicast) Oath Swearing, 10 points, Init –10, Vim  R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual  Enforces the power of a solemnlysworn oath between two or more parties. All parties must agree to the oath of their own free will, and it must Penetrate the Magic Resistance of all parties to take effect If a participant in the oath tries to act in direct contravention of it, he immediately becomes aware of this. If he carries on regardless, then he is struck with a Minor Flaw. This Flaw can be removed by re-swearing the oath in front of the original participants. This power persists until there is no further record of the oath, either in the memories of the participants or in written form. New participants may be added to the oath by swearing to it in the presence of the creature, if it pays the original Might cost again. The Might Points spent on Oath''
''Swearing regenerate normally.  No Hermetic equivalent: Ritual  Power. Presence, 0 points, Constant, Imaginem:  R: Arc, D: Constant, T: Ind  The Malik is aware of everything happening in the streets of the City of Brass, in his Palace, around the city walls as far as someone standing on the wall can see, and up along the Forgotten Road up unto Sight range from the Basalt Pillar. The Restriction to this power is that he cannot perceive what happens inside the other buildings of the City of Brass. The effect of this power is that the Malik is present everywhere in this realm, so his senses are not blocked by Magic Resistance; the senses are not magical.(see Realms of Power: Magic, page 103).  InIm30 (Base 2, +4 Arc, +3 Constant, +1 Non Hermetic); Greater Power (30 levels, –3 Cost) Replenish the Faithful Servant, variable points, Init –3, Vim  R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind  The Malik is able to transfer Might to a jinni of the City of Brass within range of his voice. If replenishing another’s Might Pool, the cost is an equal number of points. The Malik cannot''
''increase the Might Score, but can restore damage done to the score by ablative magic. In this case, the cost is an equal reduction in the Malik’s Might score (though this is replenished when the Malik forms a new aspect)  ReVi20 (Base 10, +2 Voice); Greater Power (20 levels, –2 cost, Restricted Power) Sihr, Supernatural Ability  The Malik possesses the Solomanic art Sihr, explained fully in The Cradle and the Crescent, page 46. By using Might or Confidence points, the Malik can easily summon an ‘afrit with a Might of 25 or less and command it to perform a single task. Summoning more powerful ‘afrit is possible, but more prone to possible failure. Smite with Fire, 0 points, Fast Cast, Multicast Vis: 5 Rego, 10 Ignem Appearance: The Malik has black skin and long red hair like a horse’s tail. He has two eyes like burning coal and a third eye that looks like a lynx’s eye in the middle of his forehead. With the legs and torso of a man, the Malik has two pairs of arms, one human and one lion. He has a pair of huge, vulture-like wings.''
''er Donning the Corporeal Veil (Realms of Power: Magic, page 102). This links the power to the Shapeshifter Ability (taken as a Major Quality), allowing the jinni to manifest in a number of additional forms equal to the Ability score. The jinni doesn’t need to roll to switch forms; it simply discards one form and manifests in the shape desired. Each form is considered part of the jinni’s Essential Nature. The power isn’t limited to just animal shapes. Jinn may choose variants such as an elemental form, a more regal (or more humble) version of their normal self, or even an inanimate object. The jinni can vary the size of its manifestation, from as large as its base size + Shapeshifter score, to as small as base size – twice Shapeshifter score. So, for example, an ‘afrit with a Size of +1 and a score of 3 in Shapeshifter can appear as large as Size +4 or as small as Size –5. The Restricted Power Flaw has the effect that, no matter what the alternate form, there is always some tell-tale sign of the jinni’s true identity. Beast forms have certain distinct similarities and contribute features to other shapes. An elemental form may take the shape of the jinni or bear his likeness somehow. Even an alternate human form still exhibits a signature quirk or carries a trademark object. The jinni cannot lie about his identity, though he may introduce himself by any one of the different parts of his true name, use a recognized nickname, or spell the name backwards.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''The City of Brass features a number of significant characters, most of whom are Jinn. See the Typical ‘Afrit information on the previous pages for character templates and special rules governing ‘afrit in play..''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Jawal the Mighty, ‘Afrit of the Brass Bottle==

''Magic Might: 25 Modified Characteristics: Str +4, Sta +3 Modified Virtues & Flaws: add Improved Characteristics (x2), Great Strength, Overconfident (major); plus Reckless Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: Add Greater Power, Improved Powers (x2), Lesser Power, and Remove Reduced Abilities (x4) Personality Traits: Overconfident +3, Reckless +3, Brave +2, Crafty +2 (Communication), Loyal –1 Combat: Add +1 to Attack and Defense, and +2 to Damage Soak: +3 Modified Abilities: Brawl 5 (wrestle), Charm 2 (first impres''
''sions), Concentration 3 (powers), Faerie Lore 1 (Arabic), Finesse 4 (precision), Magic Lore 4 (jinn), Penetration 5 (Domination), Single Weapon 5 (scimitar) Modified & Additional Powers: Fiery Aura of the ‘Afrit, Init +3 Smite with Fire, 0 points, Init –5 Vis: 5 Ignem Appearance: Jawal appears as a large muscular man, with dark red skin and gleaming yellow eyes. He is bald save for a long tail of coal black hair that reaches from his head to his feet. His ears are pointed and he has a wicked grin of jagged teeth. He is clothed in nothing but smoke and jewelry.''

==Travel in the Desert==

''The sun burns hot in the deserts, meaning that characters need to take precautions against heat and sunstroke. This includes covering their skin to avoid sunburn and carrying adequate supplies of water to stave off dehydration. The Deprivation check time for lack of water is reduced in the desert to 4 hours, while the sunlight does +1 non-combat damage if skin is left exposed (see ArM5, pages 180–181). Powerful magi can easily protect themselves from the heat and their thirst by using magic such as the Ward against Heat and Flames or Ritual magic to create water. However, some magi may lack these capabilities and there are also the companions, grogs, and pack animals to consider. Another (usually natural) hazard is dry quicksands, which can''
''swallow a man and his mount in seconds. If a character steps on one of these, he begins to sink immediately and is pulled under within two rounds. Death from suffocation follows if he is not rescued (again, see ArM5, pages 180–181). A character who is caught in an area of dry quicksand may make a Strength or Quickness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 in the first round to leap or pull himself free before he sinks a significant distance, with a botch indicating that his arms are trapped in the following round. Thereafter it is up to his companions to help him escape its clutches, though if his arms are free he may assist in the second round, reducing any further Ease Factors that he may have to roll against by 3. Thereafter he is pulled under and not be able to help.''

|}
''Tales of Power Afdal-Kathir, the Malik’s Champion''
''Afdal-Kathir is the Malik’s nephew. He is the court’s champion and commander of the city’s garrison. Afdal is desperately in love with his cousin Amina, who wants nothing to do with him.''

==Amina, the Malik’s daughter==

''The Malik’s daughter is a cunning speaker but famously proud and self-confident. She is a powerful ‘afrit in her own right.''

==Za’al-Zoresh the Grand-Vizier==

''Za’al-Zoresh is the Malik’s cousin, seer,  and advisor. He is always scheming to gain more power, sometimes in conflict with the Malik’s interests. However, he seeks not to usurp the throne, but to increase his own influence and authority.''

==Ihab Ia’ara, an ‘Afrit Merchant==

''Ihab travels about the city with a floating cart of wondrous items. For trinkets of minor power, he accepts payment in vis or trade for a Hermetic item. Exotic and powerful items demand higher prices, such as dangerous quests or subtly insidious bargains. The nature of a special item should be determined by the storyguide as fits the needs of the story at this point; something to help the characters do something they cannot do on their own, or something cursed that hinders the characters and creates further complications.''

==Al-Malik ‘Izz-Doresh al-Dahish ibn El-A’mash al-’Afrit==

''Al Malik I’zz-Doresh al-Dahish ibn El-A’mash al-’Afrit, called “the Malik” for short, is the sultan of the City of Brass. A powerful Named Spirit, the Malik is a Daimon, and can manifest his Aspect in different forms. The Basalt Pillar on the Forgotten Road (see later) is another aspect of the Daimon, and displays identical facial features to the physical ‘afrit aspect. Because of Solomon’s powerful magic, even a normally unbindable Daimonic Aspect like the Malik could be bound. One of the Malik’s Aspects is bound in the Basalt Pillar and cannot be discarded — it cannot leave its prison in the mundane realm although the Daimon itself is free to move within the Magic Realm. If questioned in his different Aspects,''
''the Malik will not lie about his identity, but he answers cryptically and elusively. The Malik has not attempted to manifest an Aspect outside of the Magic Realm and the City of Brass, and does not know whether he can. He can discard the Aspect in the City of Brass and form a new one after a day, appearing upon his red carnelian throne in his palace. This allows him to create an Aspect with a refilled Might pool, and to manifest with a different set of powers if he so chooses. One example of an alternate power is the ability to bind spirits, as in the case of the ghost of King Kush. The locus of the Malik Aspect consists of the streets and walls of the City of Brass, the Palace, and all public buildings.''

==Tales of Power Expected Sequence of Play==

''The locations described here presume that the characters are taking the initial mundane route that Emir Musa traveled, as described in the Tale of the City of Brass. If the characters use some other more direct means to enter the Magic Realm, skip over the details of Part One up to and including the Marble Palace, and place them directly on the Forgotten Road that leads to the City of Brass.''

==Part One: Into the Tale==

''The simplest way to begin is to journey to Egypt by mundane means and then retrace the steps of Musa’s expedition. Trade between Venice and Alexandria is thriving and characters may be able to use their mundane contacts to book passage on a merchant vessel or procure their own ship. This is perhaps the easiest way, but not necessarily the safest. It requires wandering through the desert, which may tax the survival skills of the player characters. There is also the danger of nomadic raiders and wild animals to contend with, and as they draw closer to the regio they may encounter malicious jinn and other dangerous creatures. You may decide that entrances to the City of Brass may be accessed from other mundane desert areas such as the western Maghrib, the Great Syrian Desert, the Empty Quarter of Arabia or at the edge of the Taklimakan, depending on your saga. A more direct yet more dangerous route is to leap directly into the Magic Realm and navigate the Twilight Void. This is easier said than''
''done, and lessens the opportunity for grogs and companions to play a part in the story, but may be suitable for exceptionally high-powered or fastpaced sagas. This requires that the magi correctly identify the city’s location as being within the Magic Realm rather than Arcadia or somewhere in the mundane realm, which of course requires research. See Realms of Power: Magic, Chapter Three for details on direct travel to and through the Magic Realm. Alternatively, characters with Faerie Lore may decide that the best route involves tracing the story back through Faerie by entering into Arcadia on a quest for the city. A character with Arcadian Travel may attempt to use her knowledge to navigate to the mundane location of the Marble Palace but risks being side tracked into a Faerie reflection of the true city by Faerie jinn feeding off the human vitality created by the retelling of the tale. She may become lost in one of the other tales from''
''the 1001 Nights, but such an adventure is beyond the scope of this book.''

==Mythic Egypt==

''In 1220, Egypt is in Ayubbid hands, ruled by the sultan’s son and viceroy al-Malik al-Kamil. He is currently embroiled with Papal Legate Pelagius and the forces of the Fifth Crusade, who have just taken Damietta and are moving inland towards Cairo. In the meantime, trade with Christian Europe continues unabated in Alexandria, where the Venetian embassy has been comfortably established. Disguised as merchants, the magi have no trouble blending into the ancient city although any blatant use of magic draws the attention of local mundane authorities or Islamic hedge wizards. Further details on the Gifted and unGifted sahir of the Order of Suleiman are given in The Cradle and the Crescent. Once the characters arrive in Alexandria they have no trouble getting sup''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==‘Umar, a Desert Bandit==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik +3 Size: 0 Age: 28 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Outlaw; Improved Characteristics (x3), Puissant Guile, Puissant Stealth, Social Contacts (criminals), Tough, Warrior; Avarice (major), Close Family Ties; Reckless Personality Traits: Avarice +3, Reckless +3, Loyal (+2 to gang/tribe, –2 to others) Reputations: Bandit 2 (local) Combat: Knife: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage +2 Short Sword: Init +4, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +5 Short Sword on Horseback: Init +4, Attack +15, Defense +13, Damage +5 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5,''
''Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 4 (merchants), Area Lore: Sahara 3 (merchant trails), Athletics 2 (run), Awareness 2 (opportunity, Berber 5 (bandits), Brawl 5 (knife), Carouse 1 (stay sober), Charm 1 (wit), Folk Ken 2 (nomads), Guile 4+2 (infiltrate groups of travelers), Legerdemain 2 (slight of Hand), Ride 3 (speed), Single Weapon 5 (short sword), Stealth 3+2 (sneak), Survival 3 (desert) Equipment: Knife, short sword and camel Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: ‘Umar might disguise himself as a pilgrim, merchant, hermit, or laborer to infiltrate a group of travelers. His goal is to lead them into an ambush set by his fellows.''

|}
''plies for a planned trip into the desert. They do have trouble finding a local guide, especially if they make it known that they will be traveling off the usual trade routes in search of a city believed to exist only in legend.''
''Al-Bawiti''
''Regardless of where the characters began their journey, the last bastion of civilization before entering the desert is the village of Al–Bawiti. Though the weather is hot, this is not yet the desert. These are dry plains and grassland.''
''The rural folk are nomadic goat herders, and have a few sources of water that they guard jealously. Al-Bawiti is the characters’ last opportunity to rest, load up on supplies, and gain information. This leg of the journey can be glossed over if desired. However, if the storyguide needs to find a way to oc''
''Da’ud, Jinni of the Oasis Magic Might: 30 (Auram) Locus: An oasis in the Egyptian Sahara Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: +1 Season: Autumn Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues & Flaws: Magic Spirit (Jinni); Arcane Lore, Educated, Improved Characteristics (x2), Inspirational, Large, Well Travelled; Indiscreet, Magical Air*, Optimistic (major); Carefree Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power, Gentle Air, Greater Powers (x2), No Fatigue, Ritual Power, Shapeshifter, Ways of the Oasis; Gift of Tongues, Improved Powers (x2), Personal Powers (x3), Second Sight, Variable Power (x2); Reduced Abilities (x2), Restricted Power Personality Traits: Carefree +3, Enthusiastic +3, Optimistic +3, Honorable +2, *Inspiring +2 (Presence), Loyal +2, Brave +1 *	 Essential Trait Reputations: Benevolent 3 (local) Combat: Knife: Init +2, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage +4 Soak: +2 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (poetry), Area Lore: Egypt 3 (Sahara), Arts Liberales 2 (grammar), Ath''
''letics 2 (leaping), Awareness 2 (alert), Bargain 3 (services), Brawl 3 (knife), Charm 3 (wit), Concentration 2 (powers), Coptic 4 (nomads), Dominion Lore 2 (Solomon), Finesse 3 (grace), Folk Ken 3 (nomads), Greek 4 (ancient), Guile 4 (fast talk), Infernal Lore 1 (Iblis), Leadership 2 (inspiration), Magic Lore 4 (jinn), Penetration 2 (Lord of Winds), Philosophiae 2 (natural), Second Sight 4 (spirits), Shapeshifter 3 (whirlwind), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Several powers are the same as for the ‘afarit, so refer to the descriptions given earlier. Corporeal Veil of the Jinn, 0 points, Init –3, Corpus:  With a Shapeshifter score of 3, Da’ud can manifest as large as Size +4 or as small as –5. He can take three additional forms, including a dove, a whirlwind, and a beggar. He is easily identified no matter what form he takes. Fabrication, 5 points, Init –8, (various)  Da’ud is able to craft Fabrications up to level 25 Flight, 0 points, Init –1, Various  Da’ud uses a flying carpet or carries himself with a gust of wind, depending on his mood. Invisibility, 0 points, Init 0, Imaginem, Fast Cast Jinni’s Leap, 0 points, Init, Corpus, Fast Cast Lord of Winds, points equal to Magnitude, Init + (2 – Magnitude),''
''Auram:  Da’ud can duplicate Creo and Rego Auram spells up to level 25.  Focus Power (25 levels, Fast Cast) Aura of Refreshing Breeze, 0 points, Init n/a, Auram  R: Touch, D: Constant, T: Ind  Da’ud is constantly surrounded by a refreshing, sweet-smelling breeze.  CrAu10 (Base 1, +1 Touch, +3 Constant, +1 Unnatural); Personal Power (10 levels, –1 cost) Equipment: Clothing, jewelry, knife Encumbrance: 0 Vis: If killed, Da’ud leaves behind a plume of white smoke containing 5 pawns of Auram. However, like all jinn, killing the material form does not destroy him. Appearance: Da’ud appears as a jovial nobleman dressed in finery and jewels.''
''Da’ud is the caretaker of the Blessed Oasis, a location in the middle of the Egyptian Sahara that attracts lost wanderers. He assists the needy and is helpful to others who treat him with respect. He does expect to be rewarded for his service, but he never mentions it. It doesn’t need to be anything extravagant; something as simple as a poem or a minor token of appreciation will suffice. If none is given, the wanderers will not be able to locate the oasis again.''

==Sorash D’resh al-Zawba’a==

''Magic Might: 35 (Terram) Locus: A patch of the Egyptian Sahara Characteristics: Int –1, Per +1, Pre –1, Com –2, Str +5, Sta +4, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: +1 Season: Autumn Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit (Jinni); Magical Monster; Affinity with Single Weapon, Arcane Lore, Berserk, Educated, Great Strength (x2), Great Stamina, Improved Characteristics, Puissant Single Weapon, Warrior; Magical Air*, Wrathful (major); Anchored to the Desert, Incomprehensible, Infamous, Reckless Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (x2), Greater Immunity (Heat & Flames), Greater Power (x2), No Fatigue, Shapeshifter, Ways of the Desert; Gift of Tongues, Improved Abilities (x3), Improved Attack (x2), Improved Confidence, Improved Initiative (x3), Improved Powers (x3), Improved Soak (x2), Lesser Immunity (Sand & Stone), Personal Power, Second Sight, Variable Power; Blatant Magical Air, Greater Malediction (bound by bargains); Baneful Circumstances (contact with iron), Restricted Power Personality Traits: *Wrathful +3 (Strength), Vicious +3, Brave +2, Loyal –1, Merciful –3 *	 Essential Trait Reputations: Cruel and Merciless 4 (local) Combat: Fist: Init +10, Attack +12, Defense +8, Damage +5 Clawing Wind: Init +10, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +5 Scimitar: Init +13, Attack +21, Defense +14, Damage +11 Soak: +12 Wound Penalties (material form): –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+)''
''Abilities: Arabic 5 (merchants), Area Lore: Egypt 3 (ancient days), Artes Liberales 3 (astronomy), Athletics 3 (jump), Awareness 3 (alert), Bargain 3 (magical), Brawl 7 (clawing wind), Carouse 2 (secretly stay sober), Charm 3 (win trust, Concentration 3 (powers), Finesse 3 (precision), Folk Ken 3 (bandits), Guile 3 (twisted truth), Hunt 3 (tracking), Infernal Lore 2 (Sons of Iblis), Leadership 3 (intimidation), Magic Lore 4 (jinn), Penetration 4 (Flay), Philosophiae 2 (natural), Sahara Lore 4 (trade routes), Second Sight 4 (spirits), Shapeshifter 3 (sand), Single Weapon 9+2 (scimitar), Survival 3 (desert), Theology: Islam 1 (jinn) Powers: Corporeal Veil of the Jinn, 0 points, Init –4, Corpus  In addition to his normal corporeal form, Sorash can manifest as a whirlwind of sand, a jackal, or a vulture. His snarling face can be recognized on any shape he takes. As a whirlwind, he fights using Clawing Wind. This is not a separate power. Rather, this is the natural effect of being struct by a whirlwind of sand.  Greater Power (50 levels, –5 cost, Variable Power, Restricted Power) Flay, 2 points, Init +1, Corpus  R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind  As Sorash touches an opponent, the skin is partially flayed from her body. The victim suffers a Heavy Wound. Note that Sorash can use this power in any physical form he takes, but as a spirit he can only touch other spirits. PeCo20 (Base 15, +1 Touch); Greater Power (20 levels, –2 cost, +2 Initiative) Invisibility, 0 points, Init –1, Imaginem; Fast Cast Most Jinn have the power to become invisible at will and can remain so for as long as they choose.''
''(Base 4, +3 Constant, +1 changing image); Personal Power (20 levels, –2 cost, Fast Cast) Presence, 0 points, Init –2, Imaginem  Greater Power (30 Levels, –3 cost) Lord of the Desert, points equal to Magnitude, Init + (1 – Magnitude), Various:  Sorash can duplicate effects up to level 35 that are defined by a Minor Magic Focus in deserts. Example effects include whipping up a sandstorm, creating heat enough to cause fatigue or injury (but not fire), and causing dehydration.  Focus Power (35 levels, Fast Cast, Multicast, Penetration) Equipment: Brass scale hauberk, brass scimitar Encumbrance: 0 Vis: If the corporeal form of Sorash is killed, he leaves behind a whirling column of black sand that, if collected, yields 4 pawns of Terram vis and 3 pawns of Auram. Appearance: In the form of a man, Sorash appears as a ragged desert nomad with tattered clothing and a weather-beaten face. He can also take the form of a desert jackal, a vulture, or a whirlwind of sand.''
''Sorash is an angry jinni, a member of the wrath-driven Zawba’a tribe. He is not as bloodthirsty as his brethren, though he is just as cruel and merciless. He serves the Malik of the City of Brass by guarding the Regio boundary that separates the Marble Palace from the Egyptian Sahara. He cannot be willingly convinced to help the characters, the best they can hope for is an agreement not to harm them, but he does not let them pass unless they defeat him. If coerced, he can lead them to the Marble Palace which leads to the City of Brass, but he begs to go no further (he is weakened outside of his native environment).''
''cupy companion and grog characters, he can use this as way to give them the chance to shine. They can speak with the locals and gain added information that may be helpful in their quest, such as the best direction to travel, landmarks to look for, dangers to avoid or the location of a blessed oasis, and bits of the original tale. If the characters are itching for a fight, have them encounter a group of nomadic bandits.''
''As-Sahara-al-Gharbiyah''
''This is the Egyptian Sahara, the western desert. The weather is blistering hot and dangerously dry. It takes a month to reach the next stage of their journey, the Marble Palace. If the characters have some sort of advantage, such as directions from the locals in Al-Bawiti or someone possessing a Virtue such as Way of the Land: Desert, then it takes half as long. Unless special precautions are taken and specifically mentioned, water supplies run out.''

==Encounters in the Desert==

''The following encounters may be used to make the trip through the desert more interesting and exciting. The''

==Verses of Woe and Weeping==

''“Here was a people whom, after their works, thou shalt see wept over for their lost dominion; (…) Death hath destroyed them and disunited them, and in the dust they have lost what they amassed…”''
''— inscribed on the outer entrance of the Marble Palace in classical Greek''
''The architecture and sculpture is classical Greek style, and there are verses of poetry inscribed in Greek over every entrance and doorway. These are the verses that caused Emir Musa to weep so profusely in the original tale, and they might have the same effects on characters who acquired the Despair Personality Trait from the aura alignment. Each time a character reads one of these verses or hears it being read aloud, roll a simple die and add the character’s Despair Personality Trait. If the total is 9 or more he begins to weep uncontrollably. The powerful non–Hermetic effect has a Penetration of 60 and a non-standard Duration. The Ease Factor required to recover from weeping is (3 x the character’s Despair trait). The player rolls a stress die modified by the''
''character’s strongest appropriate Personality trait (for example, Carefree, Cheerful, or Optimistic would add to the roll; Compassionate, Depressed, or Pessimistic would subtract from it). If the roll succeeds, the character stops weeping. If the roll botches, the character weeps hysterically for several minutes and looses a Fatigue level. The Despair trait and the Weeping Verses do not affect supernatural creatures with a Might score affiliated with the Magic Realm, and cannot contradict an Essential Virtue. Those affiliated with the Divine (such as those who possess True Faith or possess Holy Powers) weep only momentarily, but recover immediately if they proclaim that only God is eternal in Arabic, Greek, or Hebrew. Another prominent verse from the original tale was inscribed upon the Tablet of Iron, mentioned previously. This was the lid covering the sarcophagus of King Kush, and was removed by Emir Musa as a trophy of the expedition to be given as a gift to his caliph to remind him of the mortality of the great kingdoms of man. This careless action in turn leads to the “King’s Ransom” plot.''

==Spectral Soldiers of King Kush==

''The ghosts of King Kush’s soldiers haunt the tombs of the Marble Palace. They possess an undying loyal to their liege and serve with single-minded dedication, ignorant of any other purpose or existence. They are equipped and fight in the style of Greek soldiers from around the time of Alexander. King Kush is being held hostage in the City of Brass, and the ghosts are willing to do whatever it takes to rescue him. The characters must deal with these specters before passing through the Marble Palace on their way to the City of Brass. The ghosts strike an amicable bargain if possible, but resort to force if need be, even going so far as to take one or more members of the expedition hostage to compel cooperation. Kush himself was African, educated in Greece, and had served as an officer in Alexander’s army. After Alexander’s death he served Ptolemy as a regional governor, appointed king over the Western Desert.''
''Spectral Soldiers of Kush''
''Magic Might: 10 to 30 (Mentem)  (Low ranking soldiers are in the 10–15 range; high-ranking officers have Mights from 20 to 30) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +0  (scores may vary for each individual) Size: 0 Age: Ancient (20 to 30) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit (Ghost); Warrior, Dutybound Qualities and Inferiorities: No Fatigue; Improved Abilities (x5); Improved Power, Lesser Power (x2); Restricted Power''
''*	 Specters with a higher Might score and more Qualities have further improvements to their Characteristics and Abilities. Officers may have additional powers, such as conjuring lower ranking soldiers. Personality Traits: Dutiful +3, Loyal +3, Brave +3 Combat: Short Sword/Round Shield: Init +1, Attack +10/+11, Defense +8/+11, Damage +7 Short Spear/Round Shield: Init +2, Attack +9/+10, Defense +7/+10, Damage +7 Soak: +9 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Egypt 3 (things to lament), Artes Liberales 2 (literacy), Athletics 3 (marching), Awareness 3 (in combat), Bargain 2 (haggle), Brawl 5 (dagger), Carouse 2 (drinking), Folk Ken 2 (warriors), Greek 5 (ancient), Profession: Soldier 5 (honor guard), Single Weapon 6 (with shield), Survival 2 (forage) Powers: Strike, 0 points, Init special, Terram  The soldier can strike to inflict injury upon corporeal beings, its weapon being made solid for that split second. Initiative is based upon the soldier’s Combat scores.  CrTe10 (Base 5, +1 Touch); Lesser Power (10 levels, –2 cost, special Initiative) Animation, 0 points, Init –5, (Corpus)  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  The specter is able to animate its own skeletal corpse, including the armaments it was buried''
''with. The specter can only animate its own corpse, not that of another, so if its corpse is destroyed it can no longer use this power.  ReCo25 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Lesser Power (25 levels, -5 cost); Restricted Equipment: Short sword or spear, large round shield, full scale armor Vis: 2 Mentem in ghostly essence Appearance: The specters have the appearance of the Greek soldiers who occupied Egypt in ancient times.Though they can inflict wounds with their spectral weapons, if met in the tombs they animate their bodies and fight physically. This is more of an unconscious reflex than a purposeful decision.''
''The Magic Might of these spirits varies according to their soldierly rank. Most have a Might of 10 to 15, higher-ranking officers have a score as high as 30, and Prince Keshan has a Might of 40.''
''Specter of Prince Keshan''
''Magic Might: 40 (Mentem) Season: Spring Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +1, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence 2 (5) Age: Ancient (40) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit (Ghost); Magical Champion; Educated, Self Confident, Warrior; Driven: to rescue his father (Major); Dutybound, Visions Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus''
''Desert Bandits encounter can be used as a warm-up combat. The Blessed Oasis can be used if the expedition is in sore need of aid and comfort, and should be reached before anyone suffers lethal injury from the sun. The Scorching Sand is used to inject an element of real danger.''
''The Desert Bandits''
''The trails of North Africa are plagued by bandits who prey upon travelers and merchant caravans. Berber and Arab nomads form gangs of a dozen or more, supporting their tribes through thievery and plunder. A favored tactic is for one of their number to infiltrate a party posing as a fellow traveler or a laborer. He then steers the party into an ambush and robs them blind. The infiltrator may be discovered beforehand to give the characters an advantage, or the infiltration aspect can be discarded and you can have bandits simply jump the characters at some point where terrain is well suited for an ambush. Use the statistics given for ‘Umar, a typical desert bandit, and adjust the size of the gang to suit the combat prowess of the expedition. To give the bandits an advantage, grant one of them possession of a Brass Bottle and command over an ‘afrit with Magic Might 15.''
''The Blessed Oasis''
''The Blessed Oasis is easily mistaken for a mirage, and the storyguide may wish to tease the players by making it seem ever on the horizon, so that the characters arrive there suddenly when they have grown weary of chasing it. The Blessed Oasis is a lush garden located in the middle of the desert, around the edges of a small pond of fresh sweet water. The air is fragrant and pleasant, and is invigorating to breathe. Intellego magic reveals that there is a''

==Spectral Soldiers of King Kush (cont’d)==

''Power, Gentle Air, Greater Power (x2), No Fatigue; Improved Abilities (x14), Improved Characteristics (6x), Improved Powers (x5), Lesser Power (x2); Restricted Power (x2) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Determined +3, Dutiful +3, Loyal +3 Combat: Short Sword/Round Shield: Init +3, Attack +11/+12, Defense +10/+13, Damage +8 Soak: +9 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Destroyed (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Egypt 4 (things to lament), Artes Liberales 3 (astronomy), Athletics 3 (marching), Awareness 3 (in combat), Bargain 4 (haggle), Brawl 5 (dagger), Carouse 2 (drinking), Charm 3 (wit), Coptic 4 (ancient), Etiquette 4 (courtly), Folk Ken 3 (warriors), Greek 5 (ancient), Hunt 2 (track), Intrigue 4 (alliances), Leadership 6 (soldiers), Philosophiae 3 (natural), Profession: Soldier 5 (honor guard), Single Weapon 7 (with shield), Survival 2 (forage) Powers: Strike, 0 points, Init special, Terram  CrTe 10 (Base 5, +1 Touch); Lesser Power (10 levels, –2 cost, special Initiative) Animation, 0 points, Init +2, (Corpus)  R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind  ReCo 25 (Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Lesser Power (25 levels, –5 cost, +5 Initiative); Restricted Summon the Spectral Soldiers, 0 points, Init +2, Mentem''
''R: Arcane, D: Mom, T: Ind or Group  The prince can summon any or all of his soldiers, regardless of the intervening distance (however, this cannot be done across Magic Realm Boundaries). This power only works upon the ghosts of his army, not upon other spirits.  ReMe 50 (Base 15, +4 Arc, +2 Group, +1 Flexible), Greater Power (50 levels, –5 cost, +5 Initiative); Restricted Ghost Touch, variable cost, Init (2 – Might points spent), Terram  The prince’s ghost can move physical objects around (see RoP: Magic, p. 102)  ReTe2 5, Focus Power Eidolon, 0 points, Init +1, Imaginem  R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind  The prince is able to create an illusionary image of himself that can be seen and heard by corporeal beings (see RoP: Magic, p. 102)  CrIm 15 (Base 2, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +2 move by command, +1 intricacy): Greater Power (15 levels, +1 Init, –2 cost) Presence, 0 points, constant, Imaginem  R: Arcane, D: Constant, T: Ind  The prince is able to perceive all that occurs within the Marble Palace (see RoP: Magic, p. 103)  InIm 30; Greater Power (30 levels, –3 cost) Equipment: Short sword or spear, round shield, full scale armor Vis: 3 Rego and 5 Mentem in ghostly essence Appearance: The prince appears more regal and stately than his soldiers.''
''level 5 Faerie aura during the day, and a latent level 4 Magic aura. At night the Magic aura waxes to a strength of 5 and the Faerie aura wanes to a strength of 4. The supernatural properties of this aura restore all lost fatigue levels to a character who spends a full night and day resting at the oasis. Also, recovery rolls for disease and injury are greatly hastened, and one recovery roll can be made for each disease and injury after sleeping here for a single night. The Oasis is inhabited by a jinni named Da’ud, the genius loci and caretaker of the pond and garden. He is the spirit of the invigorating cool breeze that protects the pond from evaporation and helps nourish the garden. Da’ud is a friendly and helpful jinni. He has heard the words of the Prophet and believes that it is his duty to aid the faithful. He can provide the characters with refreshment and nourishment from the garden, and he has the power to fabricate mate''
''rial goods out of thin air. He also has a habit of showing off his knowledge and cannot help but let information slip from his lips. He is happy to tell the characters how to get to the Marble Palace and everything he knows about it. On their own it would take a week, but if the characters follow his directions they get there in three days. If Da’ud joins the expedition, he can lead them there in a single day.''
''The Scorching Sand''
''In this encounter, the characters face the threat of a severe sandstorm, a natural hazard that carries with it a supernatural menace. The sandstorm picks up slowly as the characters travel, at first being a mild annoyance, then building to obscure vision, and eventually increasing to the point of inflicting a stress die + 5 points of damage per round of ex''
''posure to it. The sandstorm is completely natural and Magic Resistance provides no protection, although Auram or Terram Form Bonuses add to a magus’ Soak roll. On the other hand, as it is completely natural, Rego Auram and Rego Terram spells can provide complete protection. During the storm, a character spots a massive dark cloud in the distance. Extending from the ground to the sky all along the horizon, the sheer wall of whirling sand is headed their way. This is a magically created sandstorm, although the characters are unlikely to realize that fact as they desperately seek shelter. A malicious jinni named Sorash D’resh al-Zawba’a, also known as the Wrath of Scorching Sand, is generating the magical sandstorm. Sorash is using his Lord of the Desert Focus Power to create a Very Severe weather Phenomenon (CrAu(Te) 35; Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Concentration, +2 size, +1 Terram). Although awe inspiring, a storm this massive is not unnatural for this terrain. Once it hits, the magical storm lasts for a full minute (10 rounds), and inflicts +30 damage per round on all those exposed to it. This storm represents the upper limit of Sorash’s Focus Power, and the Penetration is only 7 (his Penetration Ability score, adding Finesse because of the Penetration Mastery). Though it appears to the characters that the sandstorm is moving towards them, they are actually moving towards it, even if they remain stationary. What they are experiencing is a mobile regio boundary, and Sorash is the genius loci of that boundary. A Magic aura suddenly rises up at a strength of 6 (this adds to his Penetration, but also adds to Parma Magica-based Magic Resistance). Sorash attacks those who cross the boundary simply because he is malicious. After the storm, he may attempt to harass the characters further. This is an opportunity for the magi to overpower him and coerce him, and he can be forced to take them directly to the Marble Palace.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==A King’s Ransom==

''As mentioned, the Tablet of Iron that protected the sarcophagus and spirit of King Kush was removed by Emir Musa. This left the king vulnerable and the sarcophagus (with the corpse and ghost of the king) was taken by the Malik. This theft ensures the submission and service of the Prince and his spectral soldiers, who now serve as guardians to prevent outsiders from using the Marble Palace as a gateway into the Magic Realm. Though reluctant to stop his father’s potential rescuers, the prince is bound to do so and tries to turn them away (by force if need be). Once the prince sees how powerful the characters are, he turns against the Malik and asks them to rescue his father. If he thinks he can get the upper hand over them, such as by demanding a hostage to ensure cooperation, he does so. If he thinks the magi are extremely powerful, though, he is more humble in requesting assistance. If the characters strike a fair and honorable deal with the''
''prince and do manage to liberate the king, then they may be able to call upon the prince and his spectral army for assistance in other matters. If the Tablet of Iron was the primary motivation for the expedition, then the characters have travelled to this point to return the tablet and speak to Prince Keshan. He explains the situation, and tries to negotiate for assistance. He takes a humble tone, but is insistent and resorts to coercion if the characters refuse. If the characters had another motive for traveling to the City of Brass, and encounter the ghosts unexpectedly, the prince reacts in a more confrontational manner. The characters are not permitted to pass through unless they first strike a bargain. Since the magical gateway requires travelers to first pass through these tombs in order to later find the Brass Horseman that leads to the City of Brass, this becomes an unavoidable plot point.''

==Into the Magic Realm==

''Up until this point, the characters have been traveling through successively higher levels of Magic regiones. These layers and the corresponding Magic auras are as follows:''
''• The Scorching Sand (Magic aura 6) • Outside the Marble Palace (Magic aura 7, aligned with Despair) • Inside the Marble Palace (Magic aura 8, aligned with Despair) • Brass Horseman (Magic aura 9) • The Forgotten Road (Magic aura 10, aligned with Ignem)''
''The layers of regiones are closely stacked together in such a way that they are difficult to find, but once located, the layers lead directly one into the other, culminating in the Forgotten Road that leads directly to the City of Brass. Once they can see the two burning towers of the city, the characters are within an Ignem Boundary in the Magic Realm.''
''• City of Brass (Magic aura 10, Ignem Boundary 7)''
''This means that all Magic activity in the area receives a bonus of +17 (+10 from the Aura and +7 from the Boundary). Ignem related magic receives an additional +7 (for a total of +24). The Magic aura does not add any botch dice to Magic-related rolls, but the Boundary level does, adding its level to botch dice involving any roll that benefits from the Magic aura. That means 7 botch dice are added to any Magic roll of 0. Faerie powers and Faerie Abilities receive a +5 bonus (equal to half the Aura), but they still roll seven additional botch dice because they benefited from the Magic aura. Infernal powers receive a –10 penalty because of the aura, but since this is no benefit, the seven extra botch dice are not added. Faerie and Infernal rolls do receive an additional twenty botch dice for being in a level 10 Aura''
''of a foreign Regio. Divine powers are unaffected. When the characters pass into the Magic Realm, all Arcane Connections to the mundane world are interrupted. Further, all active, non-permanent spells and effects are cancelled and have to be recast. This includes Parma Magica and any enchanted item effects. Time is virtually at a standstill in the Magic Realm, and characters do not make Aging Rolls while they are there (though their actual age still increases and will affect the next Aging Roll made in the mundane world). Wounds and Fatigue are recovered as normal. The duration of many magical effects is extended while in the Magic Realm. Spells of a Duration of Momentary or Concentration operate as normal, but those of Diameter or greater persist until the end of the current season, and the Duration of Year is effectively permanent.''

|}

==The Marble Palace==

''After trekking through the desert the characters come across the ancient ruins of the Marble Palace. Even in its ruined state, the structure is beautiful, marred only by the eerie absence of life. After spending a few moments here, characters begin to feel a sense of gloom and mortality. There is a powerful Magic aura of 7, and it is aligned with the emotion of despair. This emotional alignment does not affect those with The Gift or another Magic-realmbased ability, but all others acquire the Personality Trait of Despair at a score of +3. They feel a sense of transience and mortality and are saddened by the knowledge that all things eventually come to an end and that a final fate awaits them. If they adhere to a Divine faith, they may take small solace in the fact that God is eternal. A Magic regio lies inside the ruined Marble Palace, readily accessible as the characters draw nearer due to the mag''
''ical architecture used in the palace’s construction. The regio has an aura of 8 and is also aligned with Despair. Within the regio, the palace is beautifully impressive and aesthetically magnificent, with superior construction, bright clean walls, and lofty arches. The palace rivals any structure found in the mundane world. It is decorated with precious metals and minerals, and pristine and intact sculptures abound. The Marble Palace is a gateway between the mundane realm and the City of Brass, which is located in the Magic Realm. Gateways such as this are very rare, House Mercere has documented only a handful, and this can be a valuable resource and story seed for future use if desired, particularly if the characters take the trouble to obtain an Arcane Connection to the building.''
''Tombs of the Four Hundred''
''The palace is utterly deserted on both the mundane and regio level.''
''The chambers and living quarters are empty, and there is no sign of anyone having lived there in many centuries. The only evidence of human presence that can be found are the tombs of four hundred soldiers, located under a lofty dome in the center of the palace. The tombs are arranged in a great circle surrounding a smaller domed chamber, and are all made of gray stone, except for the tomb of the prince which is made of white marble. Each tomb contains the skeletal corpse of an ancient soldier, buried with his arms and armor, and each corpse is tied to a specter. The tombs of the four hundred soldiers surround a smaller domed chamber, which is the crypt of their liege, King Kush. The domed chamber can be entered by any one of eight sandalwood doors, each inscribed with a weeping verse. In the center of the domed chamber is an empty tomb, where the king’s carved sarcophagus and corpse used to be.''

==Interlude: Into the Myths==

''The characters continue their quest towards the City of Brass. Some groups might be heading to the city simply for the sake of exploration, but most are on some quest, either to retrieve the lost bottles of Solomon or to rescue King Kush’s ghost.''

==The Brass Horseman==

''“O thou who comest up to me, if thou know not the way that leadeth to the City of Brass, rub the hand of the horseman, and he will turn, and then will stop, and in whatsoever direction he stoppeth, thither proceed, without fear and without difficulty; for it will lead thee to the City of Brass.”''
''—verse inscribed in Arabic on the base of the Brass Horseman statue''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Zayad-Sayaf and Zayad-Sabad, Guardians of the Gate==

''Magic Might: 25 Modified Characteristics: Str +9, Sta +3, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: +3 (as manifested) Modified Virtues & Flaws: Add Improved Characteristics (x2), Great Strength (x2) Driven (major), Dutybound, plus Reckless and Higher Purpose Modified Qualities & Inferiorities: Add Improved Powers, Lesser Power, and Remove Reduced Abilities (x8) Personality Traits: Driven to guard the city +3, Brave +3, Dutybound +3, *Reckless (Zayad-Sayaf) +3, Higher Purpose (Zayad-Sabad) +3, Stalwart +2 (applies to Stamina to maintain their guard),''
''Loyal +2  (Stalwart replaces Crafty as the Essential Trait) Combat: Fist: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +9 Great Sword: Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +18 Scimitar/Round Shield: Init +1, Attack +11, Defense +8/+11, Damage +15 Soak: +10 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Inc (25–32), Dead (33+) Modified Abilities: Brawl 6 (fist), Finesse 4 (precision), Great Weapon 7 (great sword), Magic Lore 4 (jinn), Penetration 5 (Smite with Fire), Single Weapon 7 (scimitar)''
''Modified & New Powers: Fiery Aura of the ‘Afrit, 1 point Flight, 2 points, Fast Cast Smite with Fire, 2 points, Fast Cast, Multicast Equipment: Full Metal Scale, Great Sword or Scimitar and Round Shield Vis: 5 Ignem Appearance: The guards initially appear as twin columns of flame on either side of whichever gate the characters approach. As the characters come within shouting distance, they manifest as twelve foot tall guards clad in full armor made of brass scales. Zayad-Sayaf is armed with a great sword, and Zayad-Sabad has a scimitar and a round shield, all likewise made of brass.''

|}
''Characters who have researched the folklore expect to find a Brass Horseman somewhere just outside the palace, and they are not disappointed. Outside the palace regio, in a connected and more powerful Magic regio, waits the Brass Horseman. The spirit of Prince Keshan can lead characters to this landmark, as can those who have read the original tale. Spells and supernatural powers such as Second Sight can also spot the Brass Horseman’s connected regio. The location of the Brass Horseman’s regio in the mundane world is indeterminable and may lie within the Egyptian Desert, the Empty Quarter of Arabia or even the terrifying Taklimakan beyond the Roof of the World. It may even exist at all these sites simultaneously or flit between them and being lost in the Twilight Void every few days.''
''The statue of the Brass Horseman sits upon a high hill amid the desert plain in a regio with a Magic aura of 9. It is sculpted of solid brass, and wields a great spear with a broad head in its''
''left hand. The spear glistens so brightly that it can nearly deprive beholders of their sight (as per Flash of Scarlet Flames, Penetration +25). The statue itself consists of a single''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The True City, the Magic City==

''The City of Brass is populated with a multitude of jinn. During the centuries since the original expedition, these jinn have grown stronger and become bolder. The characters discover a thriving cosmopolitan city, inhabited by ‘afarit and other jinn, as well as those closely associated with them (sahirs, sorcerers, mortals with jinni blood, and other sorts of magical beings). The city has several political factions which are deadlocked in a static''
''and unchanging state of affairs. The wiser jinn realize the unique potential that humans possess, and seek to involve them in their affairs. Depending on whether you wish the original tale to be true or not, the jinn of the city either chose to remain invisible out of fear when Musa’s original expedition arrived, covered the city with illusions to mask their presence or were able to divert the original explorers into a Faerie reflection of their home.''

|}
''solid piece of brass, seemingly impervious to attempts to break off or detach parts of it for later study or use as an Arcane Connection. It can be melted by intense heat or disintegrated by a powerful Perdo Terram effect, but resists magical attempts to damage or modify it as if protected by Magic Resistance of 75. Destroying the statue also destroys the gateway to the Magic Realm, and the characters must find an alternate route to their destination. If the characters read the inscription and touch the hand not holding the spear, the statue of the horseman turns and spins like blinding lightning, coming to rest facing a new direction, spear lowered to point out the way to the City of Brass. The characters see a long dusty road trailing off into the desert mist.''

==The Forgotten Road==

''Activating the statue mystically opens a path to another Magic regio containing a duplicate statue and the road to the Basalt Pillar. This regio has an aura of 10 and is aligned with Ignem (add an additional +10 to all Ignem related activities). This road borders the Twilight Void, near the Ignem Boundary that contains the City of Brass. The sun is exceedingly bright and it is exceptionally hot. If characters stay upon the road as marked, they are safe from harm.''
''If characters stray off the path into the endless desert, they are blinded by the sun’s glare and suffer +6 heat damage per round. They also run the risk of being attacked by wild ‘afarit or other creatures that have strayed into this regio from the Magic realm or are traveling to the City of Brass.''
''The Basalt Pillar''
''Extolled be the perfection of my Lord, who hath appointed me this severe affliction and painful torture until the day of resurrection!''
''—Declaration of Dahish ibn El’Amash, the ‘afrit trapped in the Basalt Pillar''
''After some time traveling the road the characters come to a pillar of black stone, and see a humanoid creature embedded within it. This is one Aspect of the Malik, imprisoned here long ago by King Solomon. The Malik, Dahish ibn El’Amash, is sunk into the stone up to his armpits, and is unable to affect anyone or anything physically, although he can still converse. When the magi encounter him he is alternating between screaming in pain and crying out in repentance in Arabic. When asked about his current condition, he tells the Tale of the Idol of Red Carnelian, interjecting cries of re''
''pentance and pleas for forgiveness. In ancient days, a Phoenician king worshiped an idol made of red carnelian, given to him by another of the “Kings of the Sea” (the Phoenicians). The king’s daughter was quite assiduous in her adoration of the idol. The king made the ‘afrit Dahish the idol’s guardian and general to the million jinn that served in the army. King Solomon ordered the idolatrous king to break the idol and give his daughter to Solomon as a wife. Dahish counseled refusal, and convinced the king to rebel against the Prophet. Millions of ‘afarit fought on both sides of the conflict, but Solomon’s ‘afarit ultimately proved more powerful. The idolatrous king was defeated. Dahish was beaten and captured, bound in chains and thrown down before King Solomon. The Prophet-King was kind in his punishment, and bound Dahish in this pillar prison until the day of resurrection, to repent and plead for forgiveness until then. In truth, Dahish and the Malik are aspects of the same Daimon. Solomon’s power was so great that he could bind Aspects, and the ‘afrit is also compelled to honor the bargain he made with the Prophet-King to spare him. The Daimon must forever maintain an aspect of himself bound in a Basalt Pillar at this location. Attempting to disenchant the pillar or some other attempt to liberate the ‘afrit requires knowledge of Solomon’s magic (at least 30 Insight points), and is considered equivalent to a 75th level ritual. Dahish know many details of the City of Brass, for this Aspect can still see and hear all that happens in the city, even if he can’t use his powers while imprisoned. He is very tight lipped and never gives out information freely. He trades information for favors however, and in this way he manipulates events from his prison. The only thing he freely admits to is the location of the City of Brass, for it is just over''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Brass Buildings==

''The City of Brass is primarily built from a grand conglomeration of Vestiges, each linked to a Brass Bottle or other artifact in the mundane realm. Vestiges are ultimately insubstantial, though they affect all five senses and are virtually real as far as casual investigation is concerned. Each tower has many open doorways and windows, and they are easy to enter to explore and pass through. Theoretically, us''
''ing the Magic Travel rules from Realms of Power: Magic, one could find his way to the mundane realm by exploring a tower and exiting from the correlating jinni’s bottle. The Vestige score of the building is equal to one-fifth the might score of the inhabiting jinni. This is considered part of the locus of that jinni, allowing them to roam anywhere about the city and within sight of the city walls.''

|}
''the next ridge. The imprisoned Aspect of Dahish marks the gateway between the regio and the Magic Realm — traveling over the ridge beyond the pillar takes the characters directly into the Ignem Boundary that contains the City of Brass without any apparent change in scenery and without moving through the Twilight Void.''

==Part Two: Into the City==

''Leaving the Basalt Pillar behind them, the characters come to a rise in the road. Just over the hill they spot the City of Brass. The characters have now imperceptibly crossed into the Magic Realm, into a level 7 Ignem Boundary that appears as an unimaginably vast desert of constant sun and heat similar to the regio they have just left. The Boundary includes both the road and the city, with the desert stretching out beyond until it passes into the Twilight Void. All Magic activity within this location receives a bonus of +17, and Ignem related activity receives a bonus of +24, which should be kept in mind within the city. Realms of Power: Magic, pages 23–26, has more details on the Magic Realm, the Twilight Void, and Boundaries. From this distance, the city appears to be a massive object of black stone with two pillars of fire jutting out from it. The stone is the massive black walls surrounding the city, and the twin flames are the two great towers made of brass of Andalusia for which the city is named. The city has many magnificent architectural features: lofty buildings spiraling into the air, wondrous arches, and breathtaking domes. The seemingly impregnable walls are eighty cubits high (120 feet), with twenty–five gates that can only be opened from within. As''
''they draw closer, the characters see two columns of flame on either side of one of the gates. The twin pillars of fire are the great towers of the Brass Palace, gleaming in the sunlight. The tiny columns of fire in front of one of the gates are two twelvefoot tall ‘afrit guards, Zayad-Sayaf and Zayad-Sabad. Clad in scale armor made of brass, Sayaf is armed with a brass great sword and Sabad is equipped with a brass scimitar and shield. Exceptionally perceptive and aware characters will realize that these guards were not initially there, but faded into existence as the expedition drew close enough to see them, almost as if in response to their approach. The gate they stand in front of is merely the one the characters looked upon first, but they flicker and reappear at whichever gate the characters approach.''

==Passing the Gates==

''Approaching the City of Brass by stealth is very difficult. The Malik perceives anything that transpires within the walls of his city, and all along the Forgotten Road to the Basalt Pillar,''
''where his Aspect is imprisoned. When the Malik perceives that the approaching expedition possesses great magical power, he becomes curious about their business. There are several ways to deal with these guards, and though some of their actions may seem strange, these are the orders of the Malik. If the characters address them, the guards ask each visitor to state her name and business. No matter what the answer, the guards open the gate. If any character refuses to answer, they do not open the gate and stand impassively. However, if the characters attempt some other form of entry, such as climbing the wall or flying over it, the guards do not interfere. If the characters attack the guards, the guards fight for a few rounds to allow the Malik to assess the visitors’ power, and then dissolve in a puff of smoke and retreat.''

==In the City==

''Once the characters enter the city, they may be overwhelmed by the experience. The magnificence of the art and architecture exceed the greatest''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Family Matters==

''Capricious and unpredictable, the Malik is deeply serious when dealing with his family. His concern and compassion for family can be used to gain the Malik’s favor, or leveraged to gain an advantage over him. The Malik has many wives, but only one child. His daughter Amina is the light of his heart, but causes him no end of grief. She is spoiled and often gets her way, and every time she finds herself in trouble her father bails her out. She is promiscuous and has many suitors, but the Malik often has them put to death when she is through with them. Corporeal destruction is no great threat to a jinni suitor, but it is to the mortal''
''men she sometimes takes as lovers. As a further complication, Aminia’s cousin and the Malik’s champion, AfdalKathir, is hopelessly in love with her. She wants nothing to do with him. The Malik’s cousin, Za’al-Zoresh, presents a ruthless and persistent threat. Despite his wickedness, the Malik often forgives his cousin’s misdeeds and only lightly punishes him when his intrigues are unravelled. Though a constant challenge to the Malik, Za’al-Zoresh is not trying to usurp the throne. He merely seeks to manipulate it to his advantage and gain power over the city’s other nobles.''

|}
''splendors of the mundane world. The towers and spires are masterpieces of delicate precision, the streets are literally paved with bricks of gold and other precious metals, every building is of exquisite quality and crafted from some sort of fiery metal such as brass, copper, bronze, or gold. There are fountains and luscious groves nearly every other block, constantly flowing with nourishing waters and overflowing with wholesome fruits. The city thrives with the hustle of urban life; up and down the avenues the characters meet merchants with stores and mobile carts, selling rare and exotic wares for strange prices. The most powerful inhabitants of the City of Brass are the jinn (mostly ‘afarit), those who followed Dahish during the war with Solomon as told in “The Tale of the Red Carnelian.” The most powerful amirs have Might scores of up to 35 and may have similar statistics to Jawal (see earlier). They roam about the city and outside the walls, although they must stay within sight of the twin Brass Towers. They are prevented from going further unless someone opens their bottle in the mundane world, or if a sorcerer or sahir manages to contact them and strike a bargain that allows them to travel. The next most powerful group are jinn who have migrated to the City of Brass from the mundane realm — mostly poor members of the Jann tribe. They appear almost identical to humans and have limited Might scores. Though these migrants are of a lower social status than the native inhabitants, they have the advantage of privacy because their towers have closed doors. Among this group are also visitors from other parts of Jinnistan on official business, in the service (under a bargain) of a higher-ranking authority. There is a small population of humans in the City of Brass. Most of them are slaves, forced into service after having a bargain twisted against''
''them, or captured and sold by a jinni of the mundane realm. Some slaves are treated well, working as servants and receiving a small wage. They may be confused with the human appearing Jann, who fill similar roles (and some of whom are actually humans with Magic Blood). Other slaves are treated harshly, subjected to brutal labors such as toiling in the mines beneath the city. The Malik’s peacekeeping force is a contingent of spectral soldiers of King Kush, who have been forced into the Malik’s service. Although resentful of their servitude, they serve the ‘afrit lord as guardsmen within the city, although none are stationed near the palace and the king’s sarcophagus.''

==The Malik’s Eye==

''Though the Malik is able to perceive events that transpires in his city — except those that take place behind closed doors — he does not watch the characters’ every move. There are other matters that demand his attention, and he is easily distracted by the constant flow of entertainment passing though his court. He observes them closely as they deal with the guards, but after they enter the city he turns his attention to other matters. He focuses on them again if they approach the palace or cause some sort of spectacle, but for the most part he doesn’t pay attention to them.''

==The Court of the Malik==

''The characters will eventually wish to meet with the Malik, perhaps to deal with him in order to rescue King Kush. If they also are seeking to rescue someone that was captured by an ‘afrit after opening a Brass Bottle, then that individual has been sold as a slave to serve the Malik’s court. Gaining access to the Malik’s court is much easier than the characters might''
''expect. The palace, like the other buildings of the city, is actually a Vestige, and has many open doorways and windows that make it easy to enter or pass through. Still, it may be the instinct of the characters to come up with a clever ruse or means of infiltration. Whatever their method of entrance, the Malik plays along, making it seem much too easy. If the characters pick a fight with some of his guards, all the better! The characters can also simply walk into the court and stand along the outer edge. No one stops them, but it may be difficult to get the Malik’s attention. The Malik’s court is crowded day and night with throngs of jinn seeking the king’s attention. Some courtiers come merely to participate in the constant feasting and drinking. The Malik sits upon his throne of red carnelian, with a score of honored guests sitting along either side of him: nobles, dignitaries, diplomats, and other elite. The sarcophagus of King Kush stands behind him, the monarch’s spirit bound as a hostage to the red carnelian throne. The center of the room is kept clear for summoned speakers and the various entertainers performing in court that day. The constant circus of the Malik’s court continues without end, but occasionally the Malik is absent from court when he chooses to take rest. Every seven days or so, the Daimon discards the Malik Aspect, and reappears a day or two latter upon his throne of red carnelian.''
''Gaining an Audience''
''Along the outer walls stand the common masses, all seeking but a moment of the Malik’s time. Though the Malik may seem frivolous and jovial, he is easily offended and has a fierce temper. He calls upon those seeking audience as it pleases him, and it can take hours, days, or years of constantly mingling in court to receive his call.''
''One way to get the Malik’s attention is to pay one of the courtiers to address the Malik on the characters’ behalf. Another method is to organize an entertainment, and give a message alongside the performers. The Malik’s greatest vice is that he desires constant entertainment, so even a speaker with an important message may have to compete with a musician and a juggler. The characters may struggle to get the Malik’s attention, but he has been aware of them all along and is just playing with them. As unknown quantities, they are a new distraction that the Malik hopes will prove entertaining, in whatever form it takes. When the time is right, he drops the pretense and invites them to sit by his side at court as honored guests.''

==Rescuing the Hostage==

''If the characters agreed to recover the sarcophagus of King Kush and return the king’s specter to Prince Keshan, they need to decide how to accomplish that task. Direct confrontation with the Malik is dangerous. Attacks in court will draw a violent response from most of the attending ‘afarit. The Malik’s champion, Afdal-Kathir, and his counselor, Za’al-Zoresh, immediately attack. If the characters manage to defeat the approximately 100 jinn that defend the Malik, they have a day before the Daimon can reconstitute his Malik Aspect. If they are not out of sight of the City of Brass by that time, the Malik musters every ‘afrit in the city and attacks. Characters might try to target the hostage directly. King Kush’s specter is bound to the red carnelian throne with magic similar to Solomon’s. Unraveling the bindings requires knowledge of that non-Hermetic magic. If the characters have such knowledge, unlikely but possible, consider the binding a level 75 effect.''
''One way to liberate King Kush is to get the Malik to release him willingly. There is no bargain he will agree to, no service the characters can perform for the king’s specter, so they have to resort to trickery or coercion. One way to trick the Malik is to get him to offer the characters the granting of a single wish as a reward for some sort of service or overcoming a challenge arranged for his amusement. Coercion may be difficult against such a powerful magical being. However, if the characters are able to take his daughter hostage, or able to cause tremendous havoc in his city, and if they are powerful enough to stand against him, they may be able to force him to capitulate. Whatever the terms of the hostage’s release, the Malik will certainly be enraged and demand that the characters leave his city at once.''

==Denouement: the Journey Home==

''If the characters succeed in rescuing King Kush, they can return the way they came, down the Forgotten Road to the Palace of Marble, and into the mundane realm of Egypt. If they return without the sarcophagus of the king, the specters do not open the pathway and refuse the characters entry, returning to haunt the covenant until their promise is fulfilled. A second option for returning home is to use one of the buildings of the city, most of which act as Vestiges, and access the Twilight Void to then exit into the mundane realm. The characters return at the location of the bottle the building is linked to. This can be hazardous, not only because of the dangers of navigating the Twilight Void, but be''
''cause the bottles of most of these ‘afarit lie somewhere at the bottom of the sea. However, if the characters are fortunate, they may have made an ally of an ‘afrit whose bottle rests in Bagdad or some other safer location. The jinni can guide them through the Twilight Void without hazard next time the bottle is opened, but the characters find themselves in a foreign land having to explain that they themselves are not genies. A third option lies in the endless desert that surrounds the City of Brass, which is many times hotter and brighter than any earthly desert. Unprotected characters suffer from blinding glare and +6 damage per round from the heat. Within this expanse there is an Ignem Vestige with a strength of 8 that corresponds to the Egyptian Sahara. The Vestige isn’t the endless desert, it is the heat. Being able to perceive this Vestige with Second Sight (or something similar) leads the characters through the Twilight Void to the mundane world. As mentioned, travel in the Twilight Void is hazardous, but it isn’t difficult. The following is adapted from the rules in Realms of Power: Magic, page 23, abbreviated and modified for this specific situation. The characters succeed unless they botch; it is just a matter of how long the journey takes. The leading character’s player rolls a stress die + Perception + Second Sight (or other appropriate Ability). The Magic aura does not add to the roll, but a magus may add his Ignem Form bonus (one-fifth of Ignem score). If using a spell, Intellego Ignem base 3 will allow a magus to perceive the Vestige and travel through it, and each additional magnitude adds a cumulative +3 bonus. Unless the roll botches, the journey takes a base time of one season. Every three full points of the roll total shortens the length by one step (month to day). Botches increase the time, but only to a year for a single botch. Using an Ability associated with Magic does not require additional botch dice, but one associ''
''ated with another Realm (such as the Second Sight gained from Strong Faerie Blood) requires a staggering twenty additional botch dice (twice the level of the Magic aura). Theoretically, the characters could become forever lost in Twilight, but that is not the desired result of this story. Instead, the storyguide should take this as an opportunity to transport the characters to any fantastic location she can imagine and have fun with it. Travel through the Twilight Void should be described as a strange phantasmal journey through the province of Ignem; patterns of white hot light and cold black shadows, mountains of fire and rivers of ice, and temperature extremes ranging from blistering hot to frozen cold. The characters can perceive this, but it does not affect them. While in the Twilight Void, they are immune to environmental conditions, deprivation, and aging.''

==Consequences==

''Several disastrous outcomes to the expedition are possible, including death, enslavement by jinn, or becoming lost in the Twilight Void. If the characters successfully return from the City of Brass, they may have made a number of new enemies or allies. The repercussions of their epic adventure spread as their tale is told in Hermetic and even mundane circles.''

==Rewards==

''If the characters succeed in resolving the King’s Ransom plot, they gain access to a ready and reasonably safe entrance to the Magic Realm, via the pathway to the Brass Horseman that lies beyond the Marble Palace. They''
''also gain the loyalty and respect of King Kush and Prince Keshan and their army of potent spectral allies. It is also possible that the characters wind up with one or more genuine Brass Bottles, or otherwise gain the services of powerful jinni or ‘afarit. All can provide valuable Insight for Breakthroughs involving spirit mastery or magical servants. The ‘afarit can also be allies that add to the magical resources of their covenant. As for material rewards, the characters are able to take home as much mundane wealth as they can carry. It is freely available and has no value to the magical inhabitants of the city, since the amount of it is virtually infinite. Finally, as part of the adventure is set within the Magic Realm, characters may accumulate vis instead of experience points while within the Boundary containing the city if you are using the rules in Realms of Power: Magic.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
