
[|

=Encroaching Dominion=

''This is a tale in which the player magi experience the growing pressure and encroachment of the Dominion on their magical lands, a story in which the felling of trees by the mundanes’ axes and the tolling of church bells cause vis sources to dry out at an increasing rate. But this growth is not natural: some outside force with supernatural power is promoting it. In fact, two groups are directly affecting events, and conflict is bound to occur. The object of this story is not to uncover the conspiracies, it is about making hard decisions about preemptive actions, facing the consequences, and taking part in shaping the future for the area. The alternative is to stand passively by and watch while everything changes drastically, deal with problems only as they occur, and simply accept whatever the outcome might be.''

==Précis==

''A recently surfaced group of magi calling themselves the Soterists (Greek for “saviors”) openly support a harmonization between the Order of Hermes and the mundane, and more importantly, the Church. They do not claim to have any solutions to the detrimental effects of the Dominion on magic. However, many speculate that they must have a trick or two up their sleeves. They also work secretly to force situations where the Order must evolve and harmonize, rather than simply accepting the decline of magic.''
''The Soterists help create a village in a wilderness area, ruining some significant vis sources of the covenant’s and threatening others. At first, the village looks like a small lumber camp, then later just a few cottages. But the community thrives and grows rapidly. The sudden appearance of a church really kicks the hornets’ nest. Investigating these events is rather easy; the Soterists are obviously involved. However, it is hard to find evidence linking the events to specific magi. When some things don’t quite add up, another group is discovered to be involved as well. But these magi – the Wächter (German for “guardians”) – help the village out in less discreet ways than the Soterists. Their aim seems to be to provoke an open conflict to end all the harmonization nonsense. Again, pinpointing individual magi responsible as well as proving their misdeeds is difficult. So the player magi are about to get caught in a conflict between two powerful groups, each using tricks and tools that have a significant impact on the local area. They need to make some hard choices regarding how best to weather the storm.''

==Hooks==

''This story is suitable for use by a beta storyguide, and as events unfold gradually, some care must be taken to sow the seeds. First, the vis resources''
''under threat need to be of significance to the magi, so they should be brought into the saga in advance of the start of the story. Secondly, the player characters should become aware of the Soterist and Wächter movements and their philosophies in advance. This gives the players an opportunity to decide how their magi view this situation. This can easily be included in a Tribunal meeting, by having one item on the agenda be related to the differences of opinion between magi from the two camps. The story works best if the next Tribunal isn’t just one year off, as the intent is open conflict, not a Hermetic courtroom drama. The suggested time frame fits the events between Tribunal meetings, assuming that a meeting happens just before the story opens. If you want to run the story over a longer period, the Tribunal should fall in the early years of the changes, while the conflict isn’t as intense and not all the facts are known. Of course, if you like Hermetic courtroom dramas, you can adapt the story to lead up to a Tribunal meeting. If the potential loss of resources or the philosophies of the two factions isn’t enough to get the player magi going straightaway, the escalating situation should. One of the themes of this story is to get the player magi to make important decisions, but they need not agree and form a united front. More drama unfolds if the covenant has magi of different opinions. This makes the choices even harder, and magi of the covenant might support different factions or even work against each other.''

|]
''The troupe style of playing fits this nicely, as one or two magi supporting the one faction can play one story, where they take their loyal covenfolk and work for their cause, while the following story can see the opposing magi using covenfolk of their own to work against the others. The scenario outlines the expected sequence of events. The storyguide may adapt and modify events to best suit the saga and characters involved. Bear in mind that these are great events; the major plots of two factions have a life of their own. The climactic and violent end intended for the poor village happens only if the player magi allow it or fail to thwart it. Most likely, the meddling of the magi causes setbacks and changes the grand plan. The Soterists take political action if their project is ruined, while if action is taken against them for loss of vis, they simply offer good compensation. The Wächter in all likelihood do not stop with the abandonment of the village, but push further against the surrounding villages to reclaim more land for the wild. But how and when the player magi act affects the aftermath and shapes the area geographically as well as the player covenant and the Tribunal as such.''

==Setting==

''The default for this story is a setting in the northern part of Germany, in the Rhine Tribunal, as shown by the choices of names of people and places, but if those are changed the location can be moved easily. Notes for a Normandy and a Thebes setting are found here. All character and location descriptions end with a short section on names to use in the other Tribunals as well. The most important characters and the Soterist and Wächter factions have customization notes.''

==Rhine Tribunal==

''The Rhine Tribunal is described fully in Guardians of the Forest. The main point for a Rhine setting is incorporating the workings of the Soterists and the Wächter into the structure of the guilds of this Tribunal. Relisius, of the Soterists, is known for his intentions regarding the Dominion and the mundane, and fits best with the Ash Guild, as do most of his supporters. They no longer want to hide and be kept down by the Dominion, but neither do they''
''want to wage war. Some Apple Guild members silently agree, without taking an active part. They are more likely to accept Holy Magic as a way of meeting the Church halfway. The Ash Guild, on the other hand, pushes for making some Breakthrough to avoid the Dominion’s limitation of and detrimental effects on magic, without sacrificing personal power and freedom as how to use magic. This is especially true for Relisius. As the official mission of the Oak Guild is to reclaim the grandeur of the old days, quite a few support Relisius’ cause on a personal level, rather than as a direction the whole guild is taking. If magi can harmonize with the Dominion and the mundanes, they can step out from the shadows and achieve great things indeed. It is very important for Relisius to achieve some sympathy here, as he needs to recruit ingenious researchers from House Bonisagus and Durenmar if he is ever to succeed in actually harmonizing magic with the Divine. However, the Oak Guild maintains the status quo, resisting any great change. This group is a major hurdle for Relisius and the group he is most interested in swaying. Their conservatism might be what''
''keeps both the Soterists and Wächter from succeeding, rather than the factions that actively oppose them. The Linden Guild is often in active opposition, not so much for ideological reasons, but because they strive for peace and cooperation between magi. Relisius has among his supporters some masters and perhaps even an archmage, and some of them control key positions in the Tribunal and have a great deal of power among the Quaesitors. They cannot give Relisius carte blanche to get away with blatant violations of the Code, but some magi might be loath to open that can of worms, give Relisius’ side the benefit of the doubt, or simply drag proceedings out to give time for the situation to change, as things might look different if the opposing faction takes drastic counter measures. The Wächter hail from both the Hawthorne and Elder Guilds, depending on whether they are Bjornaer or other nature-oriented magi or if they are Merinita or other faerie supporters. The two guilds were originally one, but split over the importance of ancient magical areas, untouched by human hand, versus the faerie areas born of human imagination, stories, and belief. The new threat of the Soterists has partly led them back together, but they remain split over many details, and their lack of unity is from the biggest obstacle to a decisive victory in the conflict. United they might be able to drag out the Soterists’ plan, exhausting the support of all but the most fanatical members. As with the Soterists, the Linden Guild often spoils the Wächter’s plans, for the sake of keeping the peace. Iselin probably has more direct sympathizers than Relisius has, but the lack of politically powerful and important magi coupled with the split attitudes on the magic versus faerie issue is to her disadvantage. Special attention should be paid''
''to the Guardians of the Forest Peripheral Code ruling (see Guardians of the Forest, page 18) on stopping precisely this kind of mundane expansion. The storyguide should use this to best effect, to enforce the drama and scale of the conflict. It provides support for the Wächter if they take action against mundane expansion, but it must be interpreted in the light of the clause in the Oath forbidding interference with mundanes. Although it puts the Wächter on stronger legal ground that the Soterists, it does not clearly decide the issue. The player magi are, at the intended age and power level, most likely to be Masters, and they might have trained one or more apprentices, who have joined the ranks of Journeymen or even risen to Master status themselves. These filii may play a role in the story, depending on the saga. The differing positions of the guilds on this question add more depth to the conflicts faced by the characters, particularly if members of the covenant are members of different guilds. Masters are likely to be influential in their guilds, and the threatened vis sources may even be of particular interest to one guild or another. The events of this story could serve to strengthen a magus’s link to his guild, or to drive a wedge between them.''

==Normandy Tribunal==

''A full description of the Normandy Tribunal is found in The Lion and the Lily. The most distinctive features of Normandy are the system of lieges and vassals and the rulings on ownership of vis sources. It is also a place of strife, be it for sport, for honor, for gain, or for revenge. This Tribunal interprets the parts of the Code about dealing with mundanes more loosely than any of its neighbors. Any action not directly bringing significant loss or ruin to an''
''other magus, covenant, or the Order as a whole is unlikely to result in a conviction. The Soterists and Wächter have similar legal situations here, and significant freedom. However, vis sources are rare and valuable, so a threatened source should really get attention. Since not all vis sources in Normandy are permanently controlled by a covenant, the threatened source should probably be a seisin, as those sources are most valuable and give the player magi strong reasons to protect them. The liege of the player covenant may have a great influence on the story, as might any vassals. The decisions of the player characters have the potential to anger lieges or alienate vassals, in addition to their results with respect to the village. The details depend entirely on your saga, but the player magi should not feel that their liege and vassals are paying no attention to their actions. The five great lineages of magi in Normandy Tribunal have different opinions of the growing conflict between Soterists and Wächter. Relisius and the Soterist cause find many silent supporters among the Quaesitors of Confluensis, but they take care to not overtly speak on his behalf, let alone act, lest they be declared biased or even corrupt. Florum also supports the cause, and is more open about it. They can muster many younger magi with useful Imaginem and Mentem spells to work as agents to keep an eye on the village. Montverte is always involved in conflicts and conquest and this is as good opportunity as any. On the Wächter’s side of the conflict, only Oleron among the great lineages supports the cause. However, many individual magi from the lesser covenants find their way to this faction. The encroaching Dominion is obviously a problem in the Normandy Tribunal, and the least politically powerful covenants and magi often lose out''
''on vis sources due to lack of support, and many vassals get squeezed by their lieges. Throwing their lot in with the Wächter could seem like a good idea for many of these magi. The Tytali of the line of Fudarus are, not surprisingly, undecided or at least divided. They seem to be enjoying the whole conflict greatly, and are trying to decide whether the gains from winning outweigh the challenge of siding with the underdog. Relisius is using much of his time to try to recruit supporters here, but he can never be wholly sure if they actually mean what they say. He feels that getting a fair number of them on his side, all properly motivated to finding a solution to harmonizing magic with the Divine, should do the trick. But the Tytali are an ever-changing wildcard to be used by the storyguide to ensure the story does not end prematurely before all its potential is used.''

==Thebes Tribunal==

''Details of the Theban Tribunal are found in The Sundered Eagle. In this Tribunal the culture of the ancient Greeks as well as that of the eastern Roman Empire has shaped the Order of Hermes. The spirit of individual freedom, cooperation, and democracy is strong here. Magi have a tendency to create groups based on interests and opinions across the lines of covenant and House. In Thebes the magi form Leagues to associate with like minded individuals. Another detail to keep in mind is that the Faerie realm in Thebes includes the Greek gods of old, and thus the pro-faerie faction might appeal to classically-inclined magi. Relisius attaches himself to one of the more influential covenants with sympathizers typically from the Houses of Bonisagus and Guernicus. Polyaigos is a possibility due to the existence of the apprentice school, which would have Bonisagi. The many Flambeau''
''found here might join his ranks because of their passion for Christianity. Hedyosmos is also a candidate due to the Guernici, but the Tytali are as ever the wild card. While Epidauros is definitely a Bonisagus and research oriented covenant, their interests lie more in healing than magical breakthrough and they might remain neutral. Relisius has been residing here long enough to have earned the status of citizen. The randomness of who sits on what council at what time makes him more inclined to simply use influence to affect politics rather than take action himself. The Wächter and Iselin are affiliated the most with Aegea, it being a joint venture of Merinita and Bjornaer. Erebos also includes many supporters because of their collective interest in the old Greek ways, but as always the Ex Miscellanea hardly present a united front. Gigas, as the Tremere stronghold, might go either way, depending on how things fit into their current plans. They can be used as a regulatory tool by the storyguide to keep the balance and flow she needs for this story. The many Verditii of Favonis and Ingasia can also see the merits of either side of the conflict. On one hand, they would like to have their magical sanctuary and vis sources kept intact from the spread of the Dominion. On the other hand, they do sell items to mundanes and prefer a large base of competent mundane craftsmen from which to recruit helpers. These represent the undecided whom both factions seek to sway. The rest of the covenants are mostly smaller or have split interests and can give support as the storyguide sees fit. The Mercere of Alexandria should remain neutral and focus on the tasks of running the Tribunal rather than take sides and lend active help. Regarding the Leagues, the League Against Idolatry is the obvious group to rally to Relisius’ ideas. The League of the Vigilant are also likely supporters since the spread of the Dominion''
''furthers their fight against the Infernal. On the side of the Wächter, the Children of Olympos are proactively furthering the spread of the Greek pantheon. The League of Constantine is anyone’s guess, since they seek to restore the Greek emperor’s line, but not revert to paganism. Of all the Boards of Magistrates, the Judicial Board is the most important group to control if one wants to change the entire shape of Tribunal politics, and both Relisius and Iselin know this. Any High Crime is investigated and handled by amateurs in the world of law rather than Quaesitors, but the matter is voted upon and settled in the People’s Court. By having a system to review the conduct of the Archai after their term has been served, the Theban Tribunal in most cases avoids gross incompetence or corruption. Nevertheless, fanatical supporters of a cause might sacrifice themselves and simply accept the punishment of shards, while those from their faction who kept their noses clean can mitigate the punishment by spending tokens of their own on trivial requests for neutralization. Alternatively a magus might have so much influence over the Conciliatory Board as to have Decrees of Contrition successfully remove shards. This legal system is difficult to control since the power changes hands every seven years, but a large enough group working together can influence many of the cases brought before them. Finally, since vis sources aren’t as rare in the Theban Tribunal as in some of the others the stakes may need to be raised here. Make the source threatened a major source or — alternatively — an ancient pagan temple site of interest to most of the player magi, and perhaps the very thing that gives the covenant its status. Since all covenants in Thebes are meant to have some overall and common goal or philosophy this very concept might be the object of the threat.''

==Tales of Power Dramatis Personae==

''The following characters play major roles in the story.''

==The Soterists==

''Soterist is the name given to and informally adopted by groups of magi across Mythic Europe who strive to achieve some kind of harmonization between the Order of Hermes and the Dominion. They are drawn mainly from the Latin houses, and although relatively few in number the power they represent is considerable. While much of what they — Relisius primarily — do in this story is blatantly in breach of the Code, their political power is even greater than their magical and academic power. Having the sympathy of many Quaesitors and other high ranking magi, Praecones, or archmages, they are a force to be reckoned with. Until now though, all they have done is talk, to try to gather support for their cause and affect political decisions in order to ease their plans. Many of them are working on grand magical projects to attain this harmonization, but most simply support the cause hoping for some breakthrough. Although converting to Holy Magic (Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, pages 66–70) serves this purpose, the ideal is a solution requiting little or no sacrifice of the freedom and power of Hermetic magic.''
''Relisius, Magus ex Bonisagus (Ash Guild)''
''Age: 104 (78) (Archmage) Personality Traits: Calculating +2, Enjoys complex plans +3, Leader +2, Overconfident +6, Pious +1''
''Born, bred, and Gauntleted in the Normandy Tribunal, Relisius was reared in the close and competitive atmosphere that this area is so well known for. His earliest ambitions became his lifelong goal: to harmonize Magic and the Divine so as to stop the conflicts between the Order and the mundane. It is a noble cause in many ways, but it has not been to everyone’s liking. In recent decades, his lack of decisive achievements has made his actions much more extreme. He would prefer it if all magi simply converted to strict Christian doctrines and adopted Holy Magic, but they need to be properly motivated and willing to accept the sacrifices in personal freedom and limits to their use of magic. A bright beacon of Christianity, Relisius is a staunch ally in the fight against the Infernal. He also seeks to overthrow faeries by eliminating the pagan and folk beliefs nurturing them. Furthermore, he strives to harness the primal and elemental forces giving rise to the realm of Magic, by bringing it in line with the Divine will of the Lord himself. At first glance, he has the neat, professional, and slightly dusty appearance which many — if not most — magi of his House are known for. Old, but with alert eyes and strong features, a full''
''head of white hair and a neatly trimmed beard, he wears comfortable, luxurious robes and a cloak. On closer inspection, and especially if engaged in conversation, he comes off as a driven man, almost bordering on fanaticism and insanity — but without crossing the line in his words. He has two Twilight Scars: When caught in a sunbeam, dust motes circle his head; the heavy, perfumed scent of incense follows him.''
''Relisius’ Plans''
''Despite being neither the founder nor the most outspoken proponent of the Soterist cause, Relisius is recognized as the unofficial leader and spokesperson in this Tribunal. If the official statements of sympathetic magi are anything to go by, he is merely one of many. But to the chagrin of all his political opponents, as well as the large group of neutral magi, he has started to act to achieve his goals. Since moving to the Tribunal at least a decade ago, he has managed to mobilize substantial support for his cause in the form of actively collaborating magi as well as passive supporters. He values both, because at some point the neutral magi must throw their support behind''

[|

==Generic Agents==

''Relisius has agents — younger magi of about 25–30 years postGauntlet — working for him to monitor and patrol the area around the village, and to accompany the villagers and his other workers for projects like The Clay Pit. The list here gives some suitable Art scores. The storyguide need only choose a set and assign the Arts. Give each magus around 200 spell levels, with a highest individual spell level of Technique + Form + 10. This method can also be used for agents from the Wächter faction.''
''Generic Agent Magi''
''Specialist Magus: One Technique and one Form at 24 Dual Art Magus: Two Techniques and two Forms at 16, or three Arts at 19 Widely Adept Magus: Any five Arts at 14 Generalist: All Arts between 7 and 8''
''For example, the storyguide needs an Agent to foil the mind control used on some villagers. She selects the Dual Art Magus who has a Rego, Creo and Mentem score of 19, and spells using these Arts up to level 45.''

==Petrus, Magus ex Bonisagus==

''Guild affiliation: Ash Guild Hermetic status: Archmage Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 102 (77) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping: 5 (26) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Flawless Magic; Affinity with Corpus, Affinity with Vim, Deft Corpus, Hermetic Prestige, Inventive Genius, Puissant Magic Theory, Quiet Magic, Sense Holiness and Unholiness; Driven (Harmonize Magic and the Divine), Enemies (Political opponents), Study Requirement; Limited Magic Resistance (Auram). Personality Traits: Driven (Soterist cause) +3, Patient +3, Pious +2, Proud +3 Reputations: Brilliant Scholar (The  Order) 3 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 5 (rhetoric), Civil and Canon Law 3 (France), Code of Hermes 4 (dealing with the Church), Concentration 5 (long time), Etiquette 5 (French), Finesse 4 (details), French 5 (nobility), Guile 4 (Church matters), Intrigue 4 (clergy), Latin 5 (Hermetic), Magic Lore 5 (auras), Magic Theory 10+2 (Vim), Organization Lore: The Church 5 (weak willed clergy), Organization Lore: House Bonisagus 3 (breakthroughs), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 6 (Latin Houses), Parma Magica 5 (Mentem), Penetration 5 (Corpus), Philosophiae 5 (ceremonial casting), Sense Holiness and Unholiness 5 (locations), Theology: Christianity 4 (debate)''
''Arts: Cr 26, In 15, Mu 8, Pe 12, Re 18, An 6, Aq 7, Au 15, Co 30, He 5, Ig 6, Im 8, Me 13, Te 9, Vi 27 Twilight Scars: Faint, distant sounds of wind chimes. Surrounded by cool, fresh air. Appearance: A wise, elderly man with prominent brow. Bald head and heavy eyebrows. Equipment: Fine robes, too academic for a merchant and too exotic for a churchman. A reasonable amount of vis from any Art. Encumbrance: 0 Spells known: Charge of the Angry Winds (CrAu15/+48) Mastery 1 (Penetration) The Incantation of Lightning (CrAu35/+50) Mastery 3 (Penetration, Multicasting, Resistance) Bind Wound (CrCo10/+65) Mastery 1 (Still casting) Gentle Touch of the Purified Body (CrCo20/+76), Ritual, Mastery 1 (Still casting) The Chirurgeon’s Healing Touch (CrCo20/+76), Ritual, Mastery 1 (Still casting) The Severed Limb Made Whole (CrCo25/+76), Ritual, Mastery 1 (Still casting) Cheating the Reaper (CrCo30/+76), Ritual, Mastery 1 (Still casting) Incantation of the Body Made Whole (CrCo40/+76), Ritual, Mastery 1 (Still casting) Physician’s Eye (InCo5/+54) Mastery 1 (Still casting) Revealed Flaws of Mortal Flesh (InCo10/+54) Mastery 1 (Still casting) The Inexorable Search (InCo20/+54) Mastery 1 (Penetration) Sight of the True Form (InCo25/+54) Mastery 1 (Penetration) The Wound that Weeps (PeCo15/+52) Mastery 2 (Penetration, Multicasting) Grip of the Choking Hand (PeCo25/+52) Mastery 1 (Penetration) Clenching Grasp of the Crushed Heart (PeCo40/+52) Mastery 1 (Penetration)''
''Veil of Invisibility (PeIm20/+52) Mastery 1 (Still casting) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi20/+48) Mastery 1 (Penetration) Circular Ward against Demons (ReVi25/+54) Mastery 1 (Penetration) Circular Ward against Faeries (ReVi25/+54) Mastery 1 (Penetration)''
''Normandy Tribunal''
''No significant changes necessary since his concept defines him as reared in these parts. He does not have a guild affiliation or rank.''
''Thebes Tribunal''
''He does not have a guild affiliation or rank. He has spent enough time here to familiarize himself with the order of things, but need not be a polites.''
''Petrus is the senior active agent in Relisius’ plans, and although he wholeheartedly believes in the cause and was central in defining the philosophy and plans with Relisius, he is definitely playing second fiddle here. Perhaps his level of ambition is less than his old friend’s, or perhaps he is more realistic in his view of the troubles they are facing. Petrus’ and Relisius’ masters were close friends, and they were both fostered for a while to the other master. Many of their ambitions stem from their youth, where the sky was the limit. Although Petrus traveled and lived far from Relisius for many years, their paths did seem to cross often enough to discuss their old plans. And now, at last, the gears are in motion.''

|]
''one or the other side, and the more sympathy and the greater numbers he can muster, the more likely he is to win the bulk of them over. In Normandy Tribunal, there are no changes necessary. If set in Thebes Tribunal, Relisius is a polites and has spent many years here. He is not currently an arche, but may have served with distinction as one previously. Prior to these events he has been testing many of his methods on a smaller scale and against weak opponents in another Tribunal. Unfortunately for his cause, Relisius has such great confidence in his own abilities that he now starts to act on a much larger scale. His active plans for the village  serve as a dress rehearsal for even grander plans; when he sees that this method works, his deputies  repeat it elsewhere. His point is that if even a reasonably powerful covenant cannot withstand the inevitable encroachment, harmonization is the only way. With each successful expansion of mundane settlements, more and more magi should fall into line with his cause, and in the end there really is no choice but to harmonize. Once the entire Order works for one cause, brilliant individuals — now free to focus on this pursuit — are bound to break the Hermetic limits of the Divine, as well as use all the positive and useful elements of the Divine powers to strengthen Hermetic magic. Rumors circulate about the design of a Holy Parma Magica or a Holy Aegis of tremendous power to be used against heretics and unbelievers. Relisius cares little about what or whom he may have to sacrifice to attain his goals; he has absolute confidence in his own power and support of his cause. Relisius himself is the kingpin, the power behind the scenes. He relies on his old comrade in arms Petrus for the practical implementation of his plan, along with other agents and sympathizers. Full game statistics are given here for Petrus. Short notes primarily for inspiration and roleplaying guidance are given afterward for additional Soterists.''
''Additional Soterists''
''Relisius and Petrus are backed up by quite a few other magi in the Soterist circle, all of whom support Relisius’ philosophy. They’re not all involved in his current plan; about a dozen select magi know of it — and they only know what Relisius believes they need to know. These additional magi are his underlings and are younger and less experienced in Hermetic terms than him. Rather than including full stats for a lot of magi who may or may not be used in this story, the following section outlines magi he is likely to have included in his plans and suggests how to create them. With the Soterist movement being most popular among the Latin Houses, the magi are most likely to be from the Houses Bonisagus, Jerbiton, and Guernicus. They could also include some Flambeau who want their religion spread with force, or Tytali who are in it for the conflict and challenges. The storyguide should prepare some of these magi for use in certain events and confrontations during the course of the story. She can use the magus templates from ArM5, pages 24–28, as a base, and then advance them 30–50 years post-Gauntlet. This involves quite a bit of work, but if Magi of Hermes is available, statistics for magi of suitable ages can be taken from that book. Bear in mind that statistics are not needed unless the player characters directly confront an agent, so you need not generate all magi in advance. Relisius has made sure he is well covered for most contingencies and has done his recruiting accordingly. He has included magi able to work craft magic with wood and stone, as well as for engineering and affecting the earth and terrain. Much depends on secrecy, on delicately executed plans, and on control and knowledge of the human mind, so he employs specialists in Mentem and Imaginem magic. Control of the weather and other elements of nature is also vital, as is the ability to heal people or animals and ensure their comfortable''
''and healthy lives. In order for the magi to function as a coherent group and allow for communication of reports back to Relisius and orders from him they need at least one magus with Leap of Homecoming, Haunt of the Living Ghost, or a similar spell. Ideas for a few such magi are given here.''
''Magnus von Schwarzwald, Follower of Guernicus (Oak Guild)''
''Age: 48 (Master) Personality Traits: Silent +3, Loyal to Relisius +2, Support for Soterist cause +1, Integrity (Guernicus) +1''
''Magnus is a Quaesitor who recently gained the status of Master in the Rhine Tribunal. He is quiet and observant, taking everything in with his dark eyes, furrowing his brow, and always looking like he is about to explode. Occasionally he sits bolt upright or springs to his feet, as suddenly as a flash of lightning. Even though they half expect it, people are usually stunned and wait in silence for his booming voice. Sometimes, he deliberately heightens the tension by pausing before opening his mouth. Then, like a thunderclap, he speaks, always in the shortest possible words and sentences, always sounding well thought through. His voice echoes in the silence created by his personality and his methods. Much of this is due to his Twilight scars, effects that he uses almost shamefully often. In reality, he is not very bright, persuasive, or skilled in Hermetic law. He lives on his reputation and his skills at intimidation. Within the Soterist cause, he is the most well known Quaesitor, as well as being a close friend of Relisius. He isn’t as fanatically proSoterist as many supporters, but he hates to lose or be wrong. His magical powers are not great, but adequate and mainly specialized in typical Quae''
''sitorial Mentem magic: discerning the truth, interrogating witnesses, and determining whether memories or emotions have been altered or controlled. These spells are heavily augmented by masteries, with House Guernicus’ abilities put to good use.''
''Augustijn van Eelderwolde, Follower of Jerbiton (Ash Guild)''
''Age: 46 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Builder +3, Support of Soterist cause +1, Desire to inherit +3''
''Augustijn was born in the Netherlands to a noble family of moderate power and considerable wealth, by his father’s second wife. With several half brothers at least a decade older than him, he was far down the line as heir to the estate. Upon entering his apprenticeship to become a magus, his deep''
''wishes to inherit land and titles began to seem more possible. The Soterist cause appeals as a way to achieve his goal, and as such he sympathizes with Relisius’ political views. Concerning magic, Augustijn’s mater quickly spotted that the child had a knack for working with stone and wood. This formed the basis of his education in craft magic, which was supplemented by an impressive array of mundane skills. The end result was a skilled architect and engineer, able to build houses, infrastructure, and even whole towns by means of magic ranging from the discreet to the wondrously instant, supplemented by knowledge and planning skills from the mundane world.''

==The Wächter==

''Wächter is the popular term for all magi who support the philosophy of watching over and preserving wild and''
''natural areas, particularly in the Rhine Tribunal. If the story is set in the Theban Tribunal, the term Prostátes (Greek for “protector”) can be used instead. The Wächter started among the Bjornaer clans supporting the Wilderist cause. In recent years, their numbers have been growing — at least as far as the Latin Houses (primarily the Soterists) know — to include many other nature-oriented Houses and individual magi. House Merinita is strongly represented here, and though many Wächter Bjornaer would also like to rid their ancestral places of faeries, they cooperate in order to avoid the spread of the influence of the Church, since this would be a loss for them both. Many Ex Miscellanea magi also support this cause, but they do not provide a united front. In addition, various individual magi from different Houses form a minority in the group. As far as numbers go, more magi support the Wächter cause than the Soterist, but the Wächter are a less cohesive group and fail to work together as well as their rivals. The movement consists mainly of splinter groups defending their own locale. Serious conflict with the Soterists might drive recruitment or unity, or split them even further.''
''Iselin, Maga ex Merinita (Elder Guild)''
''Age: 82 (51) (Journeywoman) Personality Traits: Patient +3, Whimsical +2, Impulsive –2''
''Iselin is a slight and delicately featured mature woman. In Wächter circles, she serves as the spokesperson for the cause. Her unimposing size and soft, melodious, and almost chirping voice gives her some trouble making herself heard in large crowds of magi with opposing opinions. Still, she is patient, quietly taking in all her opponents’ arguments and letting them get all worked up. Her green eyes are''
''in a state of constant flux. Few people dare meet her gaze for more than a moment; the swirling greens have confused many a magus during debate. Little is known about her magical skills, but she is famous for her great network of faerie allies and contacts, as well as her bargaining skills with them. Rumor has it that she has all but united all the cohesive faerie courts in the Rhine Tribunal, a rumor she spends no energy on. Her friend and ally for at least a decade is Timian, who carries out the practical parts of the Wächter’s plans. Iselin has two Twilight Scars as follows: Myrtle leaves grow spontaneously among her dark curls, and her cape and hair flow mysteriously in unfelt air currents, with the edge and tips scattering glittering sparkles.''
''Iselin’s Plans''
''Her present plan — the concept she seeks to spread to all groups of Wächter — is to stop the petty sabotage and start thinking big. She knows the Soterists are up to no good, helping the mundanes spread their settlements and influence. So why not just help them along? At first, the idea is to work within the lines of what the Soterists are doing, because they are bound to tread lightly at first. In time, they might make mistakes and overdo things. If not, the Wächter just step up their help to an extreme, making it quite obviously supernatural, hoping something blows up. Either the Soterists are framed and convicted of interfering with the mundanes, or undecided magi see the folly of the Soterist goal and give their support to the Wächter. The Wächter are willing to sacrifice much, even to strike the first blow if things come to war. Many Wächter have no qualms about breaking the Code; after all, the better organized and politically inclined Soterists might use the Code against them. If they must become renegades or even die, it is a sacrifice many are willing to make. They might disappear into the wild or a''
''faerie regio for a long time, and perhaps take on new identities. Iselin’s use of faeries in her plans is brilliant, because not only will faeries killed reform in time and return to take their part yet again, but molesting the fay is also a breach of the Code. She has planned carefully which faeries to use and how, since her plans must mesh perfectly with the cognizance of the faeries used, the story they embody, and which part they play.''
''Additional Wächter''
''This faction, like the Soterists, also includes in its ranks a handful of co-conspirators for Iselin. These magi should be prepared as for the Soterists. Houses most likely to be represented are the nature-oriented ones and those of Germanic origin: Merinita, Bjornaer, and Ex Miscellanea. Nevertheless, the ranks might also include Verditii wanting to preserve as much vis as possible, only to harvest it at the first opportunity. It is vital to her that her comrades in arms master magic related to nature, namely that involving animals, plants, weather, earth and water. They might focus on the physical objects themselves, Airy Spirits (Realms of Power: Magic, page 103), or Elementals (Realms of Power: Magic, page 132). Here is a single example magus for inspiration.''
''Heike, Follower of Bjornaer (Hawthorn Guild)''
''Age: 52 (Master) Personality Traits: Wilderist +3, Cooperate with Merinita +2, Ensure coherence among Bjornaer +3''
''Heike is a short, heavy-set woman with salt-and-pepper hair, who bears more than a passing resemblance to her boar Heartbeast. A Wächter at heart, she is also very determined not to let House Bjornaer tear itself apart over these differences. Apart from this, she''
''also seeks to maintain positive diplomatic ties between her House and House Merinita, by not allowing the wilderness-versus-faerie question to muddle things. Her intellectual lineage can be traced back to that of the Founder of House Merinita herself, to a group that disliked the direction their House was taking at the time of Quendalon. These magi gained acceptance into House Bjornaer and integrated their nature-oriented magic with the Mysteries of the Heartbeast. Heike’s main motive for actively supporting Iselin is her desire to have House Merinita split into two different Houses, one comprising the minority represented by the nature magi and one following the teachings of Quendalon and his faerie magic. This is a goal she has not divulged to many, and especially not yet to Iselin, but she has covert supporters in House Merinita. The ace up her sleeve in this regard is that while the nature magi who broke with Merinita’s disciples might be a minority now, they could quickly grow in numbers should they join forces with her comrades from House Bjornaer, descendants of those who changed House back in the day. She also seeks to recruit and unite the multitude of like-minded Ex Miscellanea magi, who remain a widespread and incoherent group. She believes the success of Iselin’s plan allows her to pursue these ends. Her magical mastery of various natural forces and elements — weather, earth, plants, and natural bodies of water — gives her ample opportunity to assist with the building and expansion of the village as well as sabotage the same work or even raze it from the surface of the earth.''

==Neutral Parties==

''The events of the story may draw in other magi from the Tribunal. The following characters can fill those roles.''
''Wolfgang, Follower of Flambeau (Oak Guild)''
''Age: 54 (Master) Personality Traits: Battle hardened +3, Enforce the Code +3, Corruptible –2''
''Wolfgang is an able Hoplite from the School of Vilano. His reputation precedes him as a no-nonsense and single-minded magus. He follows the letter of the law and ruthlessly brings justice to culprits as he is ordered to do. He uses no more force than necessary, but pays little heed to attempts to buy him, negotiate, or weasel out of the situation. He believes wholeheartedly in the Code being integral to the stability of the Order as a whole, and willingly accepts any censure or penalty laid upon him by just leadership.''
''Delia, Follower of Guernicus (Apple Guild)''
''Age: 36 (Journeyman) Personality Traits: Forceful –2, Lighthearted +2, Diplomatic +2''
''Delia is a young Quaesitor who is notably skillful for her age, though not exceptional. Trained outside the Rhine Tribunal, she is somewhat detached from the politics here, and her neutrality is shown by her affiliation with the Apple Guild. She is ambitious, but that is tempered by a realistic assessment of her capabilities. In time, she might become vexed by the different political opinions revealed to her and the various groups trying to influence her. Which way she bends is at this time completely open.''

==Villagers, Willehad-im-Wald==

''Stats are given for a few of the major and important characters in the vil''
''lage. In addition to these, there are a lot of farmers and workers along with their families.''
''Dieter von Brandhöfen, Priest''
''Born to impoverished parents and raised under trying conditions on the lowest rungs of society in the local area, Dieter is used to fighting for everything. Around the age of 10, he was orphaned, and a kind old priest took him in and schooled him alongside the more privileged children he was tutoring. Already an unscrupulous child, Dieter missed no opportunity to use the old priest to his own benefit. In the end, Dieter clawed his way up out of the gutter and was allowed to serve in a somewhat special way. His demeanor was unsuited to the monastic life, and his aggressive approach to serving the Lord resulted in his less established position as a wandering religious man. He has been granted a leave of absence by the bishop, allowing him to reside in the village prior to the church being built. He is meant to take care of the flock but actually travels quite a bit to recruit more workers. Once the church is finished, he presides as priest, but continues occasional recruitment expeditions. His forceful and heartfelt sermons, as well as his habit of instilling loyalty in others, are useful to the Church as a whole. His superiors move him around a lot, or use him for specific and unconventional missions, to avoid trouble in established communities. If the story is set in the Theban Tribunal, he is called Alexios Kouvanos, or Maurice Arrante if in Normandy.''
''Axel Gusseisen, Engineer''
''Axel is a good-humored and pragmatic engineer from the mountainous southern part of Germany. Originally trained as a mason, he has studied the''

[|

==Timian, Magus ex Merinita==

''Guild Affiliation: Elder Guild Hermetic Status: Master Characteristics: Int +3, Per +2, Pre +1, Com 0, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 99 (67) Decrepitude: 1 (1) Warping: 7 (15) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Strong Sidhe Blood (Physical quirk: hair includes blades of grass); Deft Imaginem, Faerie Magic, Free Study, Minor Magical Focus (Wards against Supernatural beings), Puissant Charm, Second Sight (Faerie), Social Contacts (German High Faerie Knights), Student of Faerie; Plagued by Supernatural Entity (Faerie), Weak Spontaneous Magic; Difficult Spontaneous Magic, Faerie Upbringing, Higher Purpose (Wächter cause), Weird Magic. Personality Traits: Uncomfortable in crowds +3, Impulsive +2, Reliable –2 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense –1, Damage n/a Soak: –2 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 3 (faerie areas), Artes Liberales 1 (rhetoric), Bargain 9 (faeries), Charm 9+2 (gaining trust), Craft: Weaving 5 (tapestries), Faerie Lore 9+2 (high faeries), Folk Ken 10 (what people will believe), German 5 (northern), Guile 8 (sustained lies), Latin 4 (Hermetic terms), Leadership 9 (faeries), Magic Theory 9 (Imaginem), Merinita Lore 5 (Initiations), Order of Hermes Lore 6 (Wächter), Parma Mag''
''ica 4 (Mentem), Penetration 2 (Mentem), Second Sight 7 (faerie glamour), Stealth 4 (move silently), Survival 6 (forest) Arts: Cr 7, In 9, Mu 6, Pe 16, Re 25, An 7, Aq 8, Au 12, Co 10, He 8, Ig 5, Im 15, Me 10, Te 8, Vi 15 Twilight Scars: Voice accompanied by natural sounds, like the rustling of leaves or bubbling of a brook. Right arm is dyed dark green. Fingernails are like the bark of a birch tree. Appearance: Clad in what appears at first glance to be rough-spun peasant’s clothing, but which up close has a faerie quality, in greens and browns. Equipment: Apart from his mysterious clothing, he may be assumed to have any reasonable amount of vis of any Art. Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Circle of Beast Warding (ReAn5/+32) Ward against the Beasts of Legend (ReAn25/+39 F) Ward against Faeries of the Waters (ReAq25/+41 F) Ward against Faeries of the Air (ReAu25/+49 F) The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo35/ +35) Ward against Faeries of the Wood (ReHe25/+41 F) Ward against Heat and Flames (ReIg25/+30) Haunt of the Living Ghost (Cr(Mu) Im35/+23) Mastery 2 (Stalwart casting, Ceremonial Casting) Image Phantom (MuIm20/+21) Veil of Invisibility (PeIm20/+31) Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm10/+41) Panic of the Trembling Heart (CrMe15/+17) The Call to Slumber (ReMe10/+35) Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe20/+35) Circle of Warding against Spirits of the Night (ReMe25/+44 F)''
''Ward against Faeries of the Mountain (ReTe30/+41 F) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi15/+31) Circular Ward against Demons (ReVi30/+57 F)  F) includes Focus''
''Timian is Iselin’s senior in years only; in the Wächter cause he defers to her. Even though they have a lot in common regarding dealing with the faeries, they do things in different ways. Iselin has a way with words and plans, and in general has a lot of clout in the faerie courts. Timian prefers to be out in the field, play it by ear, and accompany the faeries as they take action. He works with faeries as tools of the cause as well as liaising with potential sympathizers.''
''Normandy Tribunal''
''No significant changes, except that he has no guild affiliation or rank.''
''Thebes Tribunal''
''Timian needs to have spent enough time to gain Social Contacts, but less time than Iselin has needed to gain power over the Faerie leaders. His concept as a native of north-western Europe can be retained or he can be changed to a faerie magus from Greek culture. Replace Speak German with Speak Greek and change the speciality of Faerie Lore from High Faeries to Olympian gods. He does not, however, need to have achieved citizenship, and has consequently not served as an arche.''

|]
''theory of his profession. As a result, he is highly qualified in the fields of construction, road works, damming, and draining, as well as basic mechanics. He surrounds himself with ablebodied and bright youths trained as masons, carpenters, wheelwrights, well-diggers, and the like, and tries to form them in his image by raising their knowledge from the levels of crafting to engineering. He was involved in the founding and expansion of Willehad-im-Wald from early in the planning process, although only peripherally. He helped to survey and choose the site, helped Augustijn plan the project, and paid the occasional visit when large or special buildings were to be erected. He doesn’t move to the village until the fourth year, when the major projects in his field start. Until that time, he might be found in Bremen, working on other, more mundane, projects. He is a personal friend of Augustijn, the two of them having worked together on several occasions and learned much from each other. Axel isn’t aware''
''of the bigger picture, including the true motives for the plot or even the identity of Relisius. But he has been promised other similar projects in the future, only bigger. To him, the job is simply that — a job, but a really good one. He is not paid a fortune or in any way promised power, although he is well rewarded when it comes to salary as well as future references, but he is the boss, and the sponsors seemingly supply anything he wants and don’t interfere, giving him the opportunity of a lifetime to achieve real innovation in his field. Should the player magi end the story on good terms with Axel, he could be a real boon for the covenant. If game statistics are important, refer to the Craftsman in Covenants, page 45, modified as follows: Age: Increased to 32. Characteristics: Switch the +2 in Stamina to a +2 in Intelligence. Virtues and Flaws: Add Educated, add another Puissant Craft in masonry and engineering, drop Ability Block (logic), and add Favors. Abilities: Add Artes Liberales, Craft: masonry, carpentry and mechanic, and Philosophiae, drop Charm, Cov''
''enant Lore, Guile, and Village Lore. If the story is set in the Theban Tribunal, he is called Jorgo Stephanopoulos; if in Normandy, call him Claude de Fer instead.''
''Bishop Emerich''
''The bishop of the diocese in which the story takes place is not intended to play an important part. He is used primarily to avoid involving too many mundane officials in order to focus on the antagonistic magi, and to limit the number of times the player magi risk breaking the Code by meddling with important people. Relisius has managed to get all the needed permissions from both the civil and religious authorities for his settlement. The bishop is an important and busy man, surrounded by his own aides and one of Relisius’ agents. This makes him difficult to approach, but if he is contacted by letter his aides reply. The only time he appears in person is at the consecration of the church. Here he makes the minimal appearance required, escorted by professional bodyguards and accompanied by a few aides. He is by no means difficult to reach by mundane or magical means, and he is not sufficiently pious nor high ranking to have any Magic Resistance. For game statistics, use those for Dieter with the following modifications: Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy, Sense Holiness & Unholiness, Social Contacts (minor clergy), Student of the Divine, Strong Willed; Ambitious (Major), Dark Secret; Clumsy. Delete Driven.''

==Locations==

''The following locations play important roles in this story.''

[|

==Dieter von Brandhöfen, Priest==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 33 (33) Decrepitude: 0 Warping: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Priest; License of Absence, Well-traveled; Driven (Spread the Dominion), Supernatural Nuisance (Faeries),Vow of Celibacy Personality Traits: Pious -1, Loyal to Relisius +2, Selfish +2 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Soak: +0 (Stamina)''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 5 (churches), Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Brawl 1 (dodge), Charm 5 (parishioners), Civil and Canon Law 1 (regulations for the clergy), Dominion Lore 3 (angels), Etiquette 3 (Church), Folk Ken 6 (people he has recruited), German 5 (preaching), Intrigue 1 (parishes) Latin 4 (the Bible), Organization Lore: The Church 3 (local diocese), Theology: Christian 2 (debate) Equipment: Travel clothes fit for a clergyman, priest’s vestments Encumbrance: 0''

|]

==Tales of Power Willehad-im-Wald==

''The newly formed village of Willehad-im-Wald (German for “Willehad in the Forest”) is near a stream or small river running through a forested area with light, rolling hills and gently sloping mountains. The village is located after painstaking planning, surveying, and preparing. This exact spot is optimal regarding the quality of trees for logging, the earth for farming, the size and flow of the stream, and placed equidistant from large settlements of importance to trade and along the logical route if a road were suddenly built between two that were not previously connected. The scenario assumes that the land belongs to the bishop, but is not currently used, although the bishop can easily be replaced by another lord; Relisius can be assumed to have obtained permission from more than one authority. The default location assumed in writing this scenario is in the lands southwest of Bremen. Germany and the Rhine Tribunal were chosen because here you can find both wild areas protected by humans, as well as towns rapidly expanding due to trade in this period. As the city of Bremen is in a special situation due to its Imperial privileges, the usual and bothersome business of reigning nobles isn’t relevant. This is a good environment for a meddling Hermetic magus like Relisius of the Soterists to run his little game in. Of course, the key point is that the village must be close enough to the player covenant to threaten its resources. If the covenant is north of the Alps little needs to be changed beyond the names, but other regions may require some modification of the village’s economic base and activities. The village starts out as a simple camp at the riverside, on a flat and sandy patch of land. There is a track running perpendicular to the river, with the ford near the center of the''
''settlement. The first wooden structures are built here as well, and farmhouses spring up along the river and the road, with stretches of fields behind them, cutting into the forest. More fields and pastures for livestock are established in the surrounding forest. The logging camp and any new features, like the clay pit, are connected to the center of the village by new paths, like spokes in a wheel. As the camp grows, the tracks are improved and new ones are created, connecting the wheel spokes. Initially, the presence of pious peasants listening to a priest results in a Dominion aura of 1. Once the church has been consecrated, this rises to become as high 3. For more detail on population and features, refer to the insert “Expansion of the Village.” The villagers are at first wary of strangers, but open up as the settlement grows and more travelers and traders pass through. However, they react even more negatively to displays of The Gift than most mundanes, and are quick to call individuals with it heretics and witches, and to call upon the help of their priest. This is the result of mental conditioning performed by Relisius and his co-conspirators. If the story is set in the Theban Tribunal, the village is called Dryaklios; if in Normandy, it is called Ginestet.''

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''The following sequence of events happens if the magi react cautiously to the growing settlement, or if they don’t act at all. The storyguide should take the player magi’s activities into account, as the Soterists and Wächter adapt to events. If the magi respond with extreme violence to an early event, the grand plans need not be completely ruined for the antagonists; see the sec''
''tion on Countermeasures, later. Moderate responses most often simply extend the time frame, so that a given event happens later than it would in the original plans. They may also lead both the Soterists and the Wächter to increase their help to the village, resulting in a greater expenditure of resources and a greater frequency of magical assistance. Following the main events are a few free-floating events, which need not happen at specific times. They are all listed along with recommended times and situations in which to run them; ultimately the storyguide decides when they are most appropriate. Finally, the Countermeasures section suggests how the antagonists might try to deal with player actions.''

[|

==Overview of the Story==

''Events with a time-frame''
''Prelude: Preparations for the Village Act I: Settlement of the Village Act II: A Church is Built Act III: The Clay Pit Act IV: Growing Tension Act V: First Blood Act VI: Open War''
''Free-floating events''
''Investigation Sabotage Hermetic Society''
''Countermeasures''
''Situation I: Alerting the Quaesitors Situation II: A Violent End Situation III: Siding with the Soterists Situation IV: Siding with the Wächter''

|]

==Tales of Power Prelude: Preparations for the Village==

''The founding and expansion of the village Willehad-im-Wald happen before the first major event. When and what the player characters learn of this depends strongly on the interest and dedication of their scouts — if any — in the area. Hunters, gatherers, or natureoriented magi roaming the countryside may pick up the first signs of settlement. No rolls are required for this; it is a tool that the storyguide can use at her own discretion to kick things off. Players who have their covenants and magi take interest in their surroundings and use spies and scouts generously should be rewarded with a bit of information. The initial scouting and surveying of the area has been quite discreet, but not impossible to notice. The storyguide can kick off with what is most likely a story involving grogs and companions concerning the mystery of strangers sneaking about. A little later, the use of gentle landscaping magic might be noticed. After carefully selecting a good location for the village, the Soterists flatten or slope the ground as needed. They might alter the course of the stream to allow for a future waterwheel and for the building of a dam to flood the lower pastures. They remove undesired plants and shrubs, and magically bring young trees to maturity in short time. Most of these effects are noticeable but hard to investigate magically due to the short durations – detecting sigils and determining the specific spells from the magical traces left is difficult. These activities threaten to destroy a minor vis source and, however trivial it might be, this spells trouble for the future. Most of the information here can be gathered by simply observing the area at regular intervals. Some things are visible at a casual glance, while others require hours or even days of observation to notice.''

==Act I: Settlement of the Village==

''If the player characters miss the clues mentioned in the prelude, their first sign of the project is the first wave of workers. A crowd of woodcutters, carpenters, and general laborers one day arrive with their tools, provisions, work animals, and families. They start clearing the site for the village center and erect two simple communal houses, living in tents while the work is done. Some of their tools are magically enhanced, and the mundane ones are high quality, so the work progresses more quickly and easily than usual. Because craft magic requires the use of Finesse by the workers, it is much easier and simpler to find skilled craftsmen than to train peasants in the use of a magical tool. Whatever magical assistance they have at this time is very simple, for instance making metal bits unnaturally sharp or durable. Depending on how much time elapses between scouting missions, the changes may appear to be anything from the results of a highly organized and well financed operation to nothing short of magical. Very observant magi using Intellego spells can easily keep tabs on the place almost constantly. In the early years, magical support is discreet and the effects minor. As time goes by, the assistance becomes more overt and powerful. This section outlines what happens and when as the village expands, if noone else interferes. To begin with the help is from the Soterists and discreet. Eventually the Wächter start to give overt help to expose the situation and give their side an excuse to strike the village down.''
''Year One''
''Lumberjacks and workers clear trees and, in time, build communal houses. About a dozen families move in, and surprisingly large herds of live''
''stock and agricultural areas feed them. The village also holds the hunting rights in the area. A wandering priest holds regular sermons. A bountiful harvest along with an uncharacteristically mild winter gives the village a good start. Most of the magic used is minor, such as items with minor powers aiding work and craft ranging from magnitude 3–5; Covenants, page 50–53 has good examples. More powerful effects include The Bountiful Feast (CrHe magnitude 7), and The Cloudless Sky Returned (ReAu magnitude 6).''
''Year Two''
''Villagers build their individual cottages along the river. There is no lack of raw materials and the work is fast and skilled work. New families of peasants, workers and craftsmen come trickling in throughout the year and are housed communally until they can build their own homes. Farmlands expand and livestock donated by the backer arrive as well. Work on a wooden church starts. Population exceeds 50 adults, and the mild weather and ample food works wonders for both children and the elderly. The magic used is the same as in the first year, but more frequent due to the increased population. Several different Mentem effects, using all techniques and between magnitudes 3 and 8 are cast periodically in no discernible pattern, mainly used by Relisius’ agents to cultivate the mentality he needs from the villagers and root out any problems before they escalate.''
''Year Three''
''A smithy, several wells, and a watermill are built during the year. Large amounts of surplus meat, grain, and hides are stored in one of the communal halls. Population almost doubles. This year, several wonders happen. Some of the fields and orchards grow''
''from seedlings to full bloom overnight, allowing a second harvest. Entire generations of young animals grow to maturity in a day. Scores of trees are felled and cut to lumber in the blink of an eye. These events are interpreted as miracles and received well by the populace. Magic used for the aforementioned wonders includes maturing animals or crops (CrAn base 3 magnitude, +1 touch, +2 sun, +2 group, +1 size, and similar Herbam guidelines for fields of crops). Craft magic guidelines from Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 60–61 provide a good idea of what magic is necessary to instantly transform raw materials into a finished product. As an example, a Rego Herbam magnitude 3 Touch/Momentary/Individual effect transforms a large tree into a wooden product, with higher magnitudes affecting more trees at once. The user does require a high Finesse, however.''
''Year Four''
''The common storage hall becomes a trading post for the surplus resources, as well as an ale house and lodgings for travelers. Raw materials for the craftsmen begin to arrive at a steady pace, as does salt for preserving the meat. Population is still growing, and although not as quickly as during the first years, it is still significantly faster than that of an average village. Magic use here is no greater than the second year.''
''Year Five''
''Specialists like masons and engineers move in, many of whom are familiar with the idea of getting help from magi through enchanted devices. The workshops of the craftsmen see improvements, and they start to produce enough wares to sell at the trading post. Work also starts on digging a clay pit, constructing a kiln for firing bricks, and''
''making mortar. The roads, fords and bridges in the area are vastly improved, allowing travel almost regardless of season or weather. More magical devices helping the workers find their way into the village, such as Creo Ignem and Rego Terram devices helping the blacksmith heat his forge and work the iron, the diggers extract clay from the pit and, the tile makers heat the kiln.''
''Year Six''
''The foundations for a stone church are laid. It is planned in such a way that the old wooden church becomes a secondary building for the new one. Work starts on a crypt for keeping several holy relics and saints’ bones, as well as on the bell tower. Craft magic is employed to aid the stone cutters and masons, using the guidelines from Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 60–61.''
''Year Seven and Onwards''
''During this year the stone church is finished, and once the bell is installed, the Dominion spreads. The still-growing population thrives and expands further into the surrounding woods in their search for lumber and for hunting and gathering. Several local Magic and Faerie auras wither away. If things make it this far, the Soterists have achieved their goal — for now — in this place and tone down their involvement. Henceforth, they merely monitor the situation and area and avoid significant magical intervention, relying instead on their influence to send in or recruit the needed resources or persons. There are plans to erect more stone buildings and eventually wall the settlement, once it reaches the size of a town. The old fields are converted into sites for dwellings and shops, and a larger area around the town is laid out for fields and pastures. Such an event''
''really spells doom for the player magi’s covenant, its aura, and the vis sources.''

==Act II: A Church is Built==

''The second major event in the set time frame is the building of a wooden church during the second year after the founding of the village. If one or more of the free-floating events have occurred, this may be quite a long way into the whole affair. If the initial discovery of the settlement and the investigation was followed by direct action and minor sabotage by the player magi, the village is behind schedule. Even a few weeks’ delay can cause a project to be postponed''
''until after winter has passed, into the third year, or possibly into the fourth. In the space of a few weeks the project progresses from initial talk of a church to the main structure being built. The village then waits for the ceremony of consecration, which the local bishop performs as soon as he arrives. The time frame for this should be set so that the player magi feel time pressure, but not that events move so fast that they have no time to react. They should, however, have less than a season, so that they cannot research new spells. Part of the theme of this story is the pressure of having to choose between making use of available means in order to react when problems start, or letting the schemes escalate and responding with well-prepared plans and means.''
''There are many ways to prevent or delay these events or perhaps alter them to have a different effect than intended. Most of them require going into the village or somehow affecting the people in it. The church building and the rites to be performed by the bishop are important (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 9–12), and these should be the focus of events. It is possible to prevent the church building from being built — at least for a while — by removing or ruining materials or tools or by preventing the workforce from doing their job, using magic or mundane means, as described in the section Sabotage, or Not. The ground might also be made unsuitable for building. A situation could be engineered where misfortune is interpreted as God himself being against the building of this''

[|

==Faerie Huntsmen==

''The dark faerie huntsmen are a group of fay unsympathetic to humans. They feed on the fear and panic that arise from hunting, cursing, and killing them. They are narrowly cognizant and reenact slightly varied narratives of how nature strikes back at intrusive humans and their tolling church bells. By feeding from this vitality, they increase their numbers by attracting other, like-minded faeries. In the grand plot, they are mere pawns of Iselin, who uses them shamelessly because their mission happens to coincide with her need for getting dirty work done. By having a simple storyteller spread the word about them, a sincere belief in the Dark Huntsmen arises, all the while building up their power. If the story is set in the Theban Tribunal the Master of the Hunt can instead be a mighty faerie living off the stories of Artemis and effectively becoming a manifestation of this Greek goddess, while her Huntsmen are the minions of Artemis. This is mostly for flavor, and the game statistics can be used without change.''
''Master of the Hunt''
''Faerie Might: 45 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre –1, Com +1, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: +1 Age: n/a Virtues and Flaws: Piercing Gaze Personality Traits: Merciful –3, Vengeful +2 Reputations: Bringer of nature’s revenge 4 (local) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Longbow: Init –2, Attack +14, Defense n/a, Damage +12 Range 30 Longsword: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +8, Damage +10 Soak: +8 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24) Pretenses: Brawl 5 (dodge), Single Weapon 6 (longsword), Bows 6 (longbow), Riding 6 (horse), Survival 8 (forest), Hunt 8 (humans), Leadership 5 (huntsmen)''
''Powers: Lord of Plants, 1 or more points, Init (as Longbow), Herbam; The Master of the Hunt can create any Herbam effect at the point where his arrow hits; this is mostly a cosmetic effect and he need not make a successful attack to do this to inanimate objects.  If he shoots at a person or an animal, he needs to make a regular attack roll, and may cause damage in addition to using this power. For every point of Might spent, up to a maximum of 3, the effect has 3 Hermetic magnitudes of power.  He favors creating or animating trees to stomp on his enemies. Once a battle is won, he uses this power to grow twisted and sinister trees and thorny bushes to have nature reclaim the site. These serve to dismantle any structures or large objects as well as partially cover the bodies and rubble, and serve as a warning. Appearance: The Master of the Hunt''

|]
''church, if propaganda is spread in the village by infiltrators or conveniently arrived strangers. Simple sabotage is more likely to postpone the church than to prevent it, urging the Soterists to work harder. This is not necessarily a bad thing; although it merely serves to delay the problems, many things are easier for the player magi if the Dominion is low. If superstition is invoked, depending on how events unfurl, the conflict building over the village might come to a conclusion before the Dominion really takes hold. Instead of the player magi acting during the building of the church, the church can be sabotaged once it is in use. The Perdo Herbam spell The Great Rot is the obvious choice, although once the rite of consecration is performed, simply removing the structure is not enough to remove the Divine aura.''
''Should the church end up being built and the rite performed, getting rid of the Dominion rating of 3 in the church and surrounding area is difficult. Perdo Vim magic cannot remove it; the Divine is notoriously hard to affect by means of Hermetic magic. The Dominion degrades naturally if the congregation stops coming to church and no rites are performed. The time it takes for the church to degrade from a Dominion rating of 3 to the rating of 1 for a normal rural area equals the period of time the church has been in use since being consecrated (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 12). In time a foreign aura encroaching here could displace the Dominion. Very creative use of Imaginem magic could even ensure that the consecration was performed in a place other than the church building; conse''
''quently, every week the villagers attend sermons in a wholly mundane place. If the plans for the church are in any way delayed or thwarted, it certainly affects the events in the following years.''

==Act III: The Clay Pit==

''The third major event — by now the free-floating Event II: Noticing the Second Faction has most likely happened — begins when news arrives at the covenant that a vis source is directly threatened by the plans for expansion of the village. A fine source of clay has been found in a swamp some distance from the village. The engineer Axel Gusseisen plans to clear a path through the woods, bridge a gully, lead the path round a hill by dig''

[|

==Faerie Huntsmen (cont’d)==

''is a large, lanky humanoid. His misshapen face has the beak of an owl rather than nose and mouth, and his dark eyes glare maliciously. His lower legs are those of a deer, and he is dressed in black and dark greens. Equipment: An elaborately shaped longbow, a curved and jagged sword at his side. He wears a leather scale hauberk made from the leather of exotic animals. His dark horse bears a quiver of greenfeathered arrows at the saddle. Encumbrance: 0''
''Dark Huntsman''
''Faerie Might: 30 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Age: n/a Virtues and Flaws: None Personality Traits: Vengeful +2 Reputations: None Combat:''
''Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Talons: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +5 Spear, Short: Init +4, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +7 Thrown Spear, Short: Init +4, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +7 Range 10 Soak: +7 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6– 10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Pretenses: Brawl 5 (talons), Single Weapon 6 (spear), Riding 6 (horse), Survival 5 (forest), Hunt 5 (humans) Powers: Spear of Cursed Wood, 5 points, Init +2, Herbam; A Dark Huntsman can transform his spear – wherever it may be within his sight – into a 10-foot high tree with twisting, flailing ,and thorny branches.  The power must be activated as he attacks in melee or throw the spear; it continues to cause the''
''victim +10 damage each round. Anyone approaching within 3 paces suffers +5 damage from the thorns.  Use the rules for Wall of Thorns (ArM5, page 135) regarding damaging it or forcing one’s way through. The thorny bush is protected by the Huntsman’s Magic Resistance, as it is a part of his glamour. The Huntsman can approach his spear safely to pick it up again. Appearance: Dark Huntsmen look like stocky humans, except that they have no mouths, and their eyes radiate a mixture of infinite sadness and vengeful spite. Their hands have elongated fingers with sharp talons for nails. They too dress in black and dark greens. Equipment: Their only armament is a single spear with a large, barbed tip. They wear leather scale hauberks made from the leather of exotic animals and ride dark horses. Encumbrance: 0''

|]
''ging a path into its sides, and finally dig canals to drain the swamp. Unfortunately, this very swamp also holds a significant vis source belonging to the player magi. To make matters worse, the hill has a magical aura rating of 3 as well, and is in fact a tether giving rise to the aura in the area. The player magi need not necessarily be aware of this in advance, although if described as an idyllic place, the perfect forest hill, where all sensory input is stronger than in other places, that might tip them off. A Magic Sensitivity + Perception Stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 (calculated as 12 minus aura rating) reveals its role. If using Magic Lore or Area Lore the Ease Factor is 3 higher, and success only gives the character a sense of the supernatural, without any details. Normally such a project would not be built so far from the village; the village would more likely have been built at the site of the clay. But Relisius has planned this very meticulously and has placed the village at the optimum site for many other factors, making this lone resource a secondary one. By establishing a satellite location and seeding it with mundane activity he hopes to affect larger areas with the encroachment of the Dominion. The clay pit won’t be worked all year round, but while it is active the workers live there in small huts with their families. In time this site is expected to become a new village by itself, buying food from Willehad and producing its own goods and services to pay for this. The player magi learn much the same information no matter how they are investigating, as long as they are investigating. When the player magi hear about the clay pit, it is still just talk; the villagers mention their forthcoming plans to send out advance scouts before the engineering and work crew arrives. The scouts leave in a few days, but the work crew isn’t due at the village until the end of the second week. The scouting party consists of the most skilled woodsmen in the village. This is by no means an impressive group, since they have little experience of hunting and haven’t had the time to thor''
''oughly get to know the locale. They have only sparse information of the direction in which they are to go as well as some landmarks for finding the hill and swamp. As with most other major events in this story, simply killing or driving off such a mundane group is easy but won’t solve the problem for good. It might entice the Soterists to raise the stakes and risk more overt help or force them to use political power against the saboteurs. On the other hand, this could be the setback that forces the abandonment of the project. If the player magi have intervened before, Relisius sends an appropriate group of agents to secretly accompany the villagers. The agents may bring along grogs, who may travel as part of the villagers’ group. Unless magic used earlier by the player magi suggests that different Arts would be most useful, the agents are skilled in Imaginem and Mentem to counter illusions and mind control, or the elemental Forms for physical aid. These magi have the means to survive and move comfortably in the wilderness, and spells or devices to do so invisibly and silently. The player magi are unlikely to become aware of them before the agents act, although particularly thorough scrying might reveal them (and therefore break the Code.) At least one of these magi has the means to either teleport back to Relisius’ staging area, or to transmit information. In this way, Relisius is able — through his underlings — to know what has happened. But, in the main, they are on the defensive; one of the reasons for this event is to allow the player magi to take initiative. In general they take no direct action against the player magi. The agents may use Perdo Vim or Muto Imaginem to reveal invisible magi, or sabotage any spells they may cast, but they do not cast spells to directly harm the player magi, in the hope of avoiding confrontation at this point. The agents defend themselves and retreat if exposed rather than let the situation escalate. Clever and inventive players should be rewarded with success for their magi.''

==Act IV: Growing Tension==

''This can be treated as the fourth major event. For a time — depending on how events unfold, and on the temperaments of the player magi — there is more than one battlefield. Soterists and Wächter both compete for support from the rest of the Tribunal’s magi. The two sides also actively try to hinder the other side’s activities in Willehad-im-Wald with increasing intensity; Soterists use Perdo Vim to sabotage the powerful and indiscreet rituals of the Wächter, who in turn start to sabotage the more discreet measures of the Soterists in order to increase the need for more powerful magic. If the player magi are heavily involved in investigation, sabotage, or assistance to either faction at this point, they are also involved in this escalation. Naturally, the factions come to blows, starting with skirmishes with the other side’s agents and eventually, a Wizard’s War or two erupts. If nothing else, this serves to identify the individual active magi from both factions to those player magi who have been unwilling to get involved or unlucky with their investigations. Neither of the competing factions is sufficiently fanatic to risk Wizard’s March by openly attacking another magus outside Wizard’s War — yet! Since both parties feel that the undecided magi are more easily swayed if they know about the Wars, ample information is circulated by the Redcaps. Soterists up the ante by having armed warriors prowl the countryside, clearing more forest with fire and the iron axe. The Church tries to spread the Dominion with every sermon and ringing of bells. Dieter the priest goes to great lengths to invent and spread local stories about divine events, in order to justify building shrines at majestic or oddly colored trees, at roadsides, on hilltops, or on the shores of lakes. The Wächter recruit more and more animals and faeries to sabotage this, and thus goad the''
''village into a full-fledged crusade against the wild, against which they can strike back with just cause — at least according their own ethics. If it fits the conditions in the Tribunal, they might even start aggressively recruiting sympathetic hedge mages and funneling them into the Order and their own Houses.''

==Act V: First Blood==

''The fifth major event is the first real confrontation. With all the activities by several magi from both factions and with the player magi most likely working to unravel things for (at least) one such faction, a clash is inevitable. The storyguide should decide when and how, trying to keep the balance. This confrontation should not be the climax of the story, so the leaders of the factions should not be involved. However, it should make it clear that things have built up to open conflict. The details depend on the actions of the player magi, but the Wächter are the most likely faction to make a preemptive strike. The Soterists are not any way holding back, but the religious zeal they’ve instilled into the villagers lacks a well-defined enemy and place to strike at. The storyguide should set up a situation that results in the conflict escalating and a magus (from whichever faction) ending up dead at the hands of another magus — without it being part of a legally declared Wizard’s War. At this point, it is all but impossible to avoid Quaesitorial involvement.''

==Act VI: Open War==

''As the sixth and final major event, the fate of the village is sealed. Unless player magi start the battle, the Wächter play their powerful and unpredictable card — the dark fae. Suddenly one morning, the Dark Huntsmen ride through the mist, bringing down death and destruction on the''
''village. At this time, the Wächter have had enough and have decided they have as much support as they are going to get at the moment. Naturally, this draws out the Soterists as well as mobilizing the villagers men in all their religious zeal. Timing is of the essence here, because the player magi must be able to participate in — or at least witness — the attack. Active and well-prepared magi have seen which way the wind is blowing and have made proper arrangements to keep tabs on the village. Mundane scouts or infiltrators could do the trick, although they need some way of communicating with the magi back home for this to be effective. Scrying through spells or devices is also a viable option, however risky it might be with regard to the provisions of the Code. Alternatively, the magi might stake out the place themselves. If the magi are not monitoring the village, the Dark Huntsmen pass around the covenant, kept out by its Aegis, on their way to the village. As the icing on the cake, the Wächter now strike directly at the other magi. Chaos, carnage, and massacre ensue. At this point, neither side cares about the Code nor about who they are fighting; this is all done for the cause. Both sides have broken the Code in enough ways to guarantee a March in any case. There is ample opportunity to cast great magic and to fight powerful magi or seasoned Faerie warriors. The player magi may support either side, or they may simply try to limit the destruction and save the innocent villagers. They might not even show a united front! Depending on what they’ve done during the escalating tension and conflict, they might be in the clear concerning the Code, or decidedly not. The whole troupe should be clear on the magi’s legal position before the battle, for the sake of the future of the saga. In any case, the magi should be at no loss to find challenging enemies and to use their most powerful spells. Even without fighting''
''other magi, there are opportunities to use great magic, since Soterists and Wächter alike use all manner of elements in the fight — animals, trees, building materials, reanimated corpses, the river, and the earth and hills themselves. The way that the battle ends depends on the actions of the player characters. They might even manage to broker a peace in the midst of the violence. If the players intend to continue the saga after this climax, the storyguide should make decisions for the non-player characters that make that possible, but otherwise let the players decide how things finish.''

==Investigation==

''Most player magi are likely to investigate the appearance of a village that threatens their vis sources. Whether the magi decide to use magic or mundane agents to investigate, what little information they can gather comes quite easily. Relisius as the mastermind runs a tight ship, recruiting and supporting through agents and dead drops. The villagers are suspicious of strangers, but successful use of social Abilities reveals what little information they have: primarily that they have all been recruited by Dieter and receive plans and materials through Axel Gusseisen. Learning the names and appearances of the mundane helpers — Dieter and Axel — is fairly easy. Following Dieter around finds him recruiting more villagers and workers, according to some set plan. He is a very hard man to interrogate by mundane means, and he only knows the schedule and geographical plans according to which he carries out his recruiting. His memory has been altered with Perdo Mentem (Base 15: Remove major memory, +1 Eye), so that he can recall only the name Pierre Relisius and a fuzzy image of his face. Axel can be followed to a warehouse in Bremen where goods and''
''materials arrive from various places, to be sent to the village as needed. Even simple Intellego Mentem magic reveals these facts more quickly than questioning the villagers. Using scrying magic, as mentioned earlier, uncovers the occasional visits of Dieter and Axel. Since the villagers make up a small and closely-knit group, infiltrating them is very difficult, although magically assisted disguise helps. The covenant could also arrange for one of their agents to be recruited; Dieter has no way of checking this, and the Soterists may not be given any reason to be suspicious. If the magi use Intellego Vim magic, the guidelines from ArM5, page 158 and Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 74–75 apply. All the lower magnitude effects and the short-lived magic are hard to detect, unless the player magi are on the scene almost immediately. Enchanted items could yield a lot of information if stolen and investigated''
''in the laboratory. Similarly, the powerful Animal and Herbam spells lasting whole days give the investigating magi something to work with. If the magi can determine the sigils associated with the effects, they can tie them to particular magi. The items are supplied by the Soterists, while the powerful and indiscreet Animal and Herbam spells are cast by the Wächter faction. In order to be able to use this knowledge, the characters need to know which magi have these sigils. The storyguide decides how difficult it is to do this. It may require nothing more than an Organization Lore: Order of Hermes roll, or it may require getting access to Quaesitorial records. The knowledge gained serves to identify at least some of the major magi from one or both of the factions. Early in the story, this forms the basis for a case at the next scheduled Tribunal; later on, it may allow the player characters to persuade the Quaesitores to formally intervene.''
''The woods surrounding the village are more or less constantly patrolled by Relisius’ grogs using invisibility devices (Veil of Invisibility PeIm 24 Touch/ Sun/Ind, Penetration +0, 2 uses/day, environmental trigger: sunrise/sunset). Sometimes, younger magi might patrol the area themselves; otherwise they use devices or spells to keep tabs on the village at regular intervals. If invisible grogs observe magi, the magus casting the invisibility spell has probably broken the Code on scrying, and the magi may clearly do so. However, even if the magi have solid proof, this is not a serious offense, as the offenders were not targeting places the magi were known to be, and its legal resolution must wait for the next scheduled Tribunal.''

==Sabotage==

''The player characters are likely to intervene in an attempt to reduce and remove the threat that the village poses to their resources. One obvious general form of intervention is sabotage. The player magi have time to invent new spells for this, and Hermetic magic is extremely flexible, so this intervention could happen in any form, and at any time. The storyguide should give the players their freedom here; the story is about the player characters’ response, so their actions cannot derail it. The Soterists and Wächter do respond to player character actions, and take the details of what the player magi have done into account. However, their general responses depend on the scale of the sabotage, rather than the method. Minor and discreet sabotage can be carried by mundane means, but more likely by magic. Stealing, disenchanting or breaking the magical tools impedes the progress, as does removing or damaging the raw materials. Actions such as these should result in setbacks that can be seen and felt, but a single act of minor sabotage is nothing more than a de''

[|

==Additional Ideas for Willehad-im-Wald==

''A merchant arrives ill or injured and needs to stay a bit to recuperate. In the meantime his goods are stored in a warehouse. This gives any saboteurs ample opportunity to steal or wreck the wares, while supporters try to prevent this. Apart from the monetary loss from theft or sabotage, the ill reputation among merchants would be a setback for the Soterists. A pagan holiday approaches on which local myth says that a faerie mound rises from the ground and sends out faerie owls. The Wächter have made sure this story is told in the village in advance, along with tips for traditional wards. On the night they try to bring forth the''
''aforementioned faeries. The faeries gain vitality from the wards and precautions taken against them. The Soterists try to stop this or just limit the damage. A group of outlaws have been using this wild area as a hideout between their raids. Suddenly the place is crawling with people, both merchants and peasants ripe for the picking but also added numbers of soldiers and officials wanting to capture them. Either faction could benefit from recruiting their help. The bandits need not be bad to the bone; they could perhaps be pardoned and integrated into the village, or they could become guardians of the wild.''

|]
''lay; the Soterists do not give up that easily. If the player characters continue to hinder the project, however, they may eventually succeed in stopping growth entirely or even force the village to disband. Faced with constant interference, the Soterists could give up in the end and be bitter about the whole situation. They are sure to investigate by themselves to look for any evidence to prosecute with; see Legal Repercussions in the Aftermath section. Failing this they become future antagonists for the player magi, lurking in the shadows; see Hidden Enemies in the Aftermath section. Large scale sabotage could involve dispelling the various ongoing magical effects — Corpus spells granting the villagers health, Herbam and Animal spells boosting their farming, Auram spells granting mild weather — with appropriate Perdo Vim spells. Other Perdo magic can easily destroy things that have been created. This is more overt and serious than merely hampering progress by sabotaging tools. Such events have negative effects on the morale of the villagers that not easily remedied by Relisius’ agents simply using more Mentem magic. The same goes for terrorizing the village with monsters, illusions, or direct use of mind-altering spells. While the village can recover from a single such attack, repeated destruction wears them down and the village disbands, ruining the Soterists’ plans. A situation like this results in a Quaesitorial investigation because the involvement of magis is obvious, and Relisius wants someone punished. The bishop may find the whole situation highly suspect and investigate himself, bringing the Church into Hermetic affairs. See Legal Repercussions in the Aftermath section for some suggestions. At the extreme, magic of almost any physical Form — especially the four elements — can easily wipe the entire village off the face of the earth. It could be made to look like a natural disaster, or it could remove all traces of the village. This does bring the''
''Soterists’ plans to a halt, because they do not have the resources to repeatedly build villages to be destroyed. As this response involves the murder of dozens of villagers, including their children, most magi should treat it as a last resort, meaning that the story has a chance to play out first. In any case, destroying the village does not end the characters’ problems with the Soterists. First, Relisius and his allies invested magical resources in the project, which have been destroyed, so they try to bring a prosecution against the player characters for depriving them of magical power. Legally, they are on shaky ground, as their project would have deprived the characters of power, through the loss of a vis source, so a counter-suit is possible, but the characters need to defend themselves. Second, the village had the bishop’s permission, and he investigates its complete destruction. If he is not convinced that the cause was natural, the Church could bring more trouble. See Legal Repercussions in the Aftermath section for more suggestions.''

==Hermetic Society==

''The Soterists and Wächter are well aware of each other almost from the get go, but they don’t start working against each other until the fourth year. Actually, the Wächter have been working — somewhat indirectly — against the mission of the Soterists all along, by helping in more and more exaggerated ways, until the lid blows off. Once the Soterists realize this, they start to move against the Wächter. For the Wächter, this means that the next phase of their plan is set in motion. The Soterists start to move politically and to sow mistrust and antipathy toward their rivals. Being between Tribunals, investigations can be carried out but the cases won’t be heard until the following Tribunal. As representatives of the sophisticated Latin Houses, Relisius and his sympathizers use various means to gain support. As well as directly attacking the Wächter and trying to discredit their philosophy, they act in ways that make them seem like fine members of the community, They might hold symposiums to teach various academic or arcane subjects''
''to interested parties pro bono, or they might offer favorable deals when trading vis or books with those magi whose sympathy they’d like to gain. The Wächter don’t have the same means and connections and instead aim to recruit ideological supporters. The player magi should also have opportunities to meet the leaders of the two factions, and speak to them, at least briefly. Relisius is best met at a gathering of important magi, to show how well connected he is. If set in Rhine Tribunal it is a gathering of mainly Ash Guild members but with the Oak Guild also represented. It might be some Bonisagus event, or a magus selling books or magical devices. The challenges of finding a way for magic and the Dominion to live in harmony are one of the topics of discussion at this gathering. Relisius gladly explains his opinions and goals, but does not go into any detail about his active plans. The player magi may be able to speak to him privately, but Relisius is not eager to do so; the player magi may not be sure that he is targeting them, but he knows very well what he is doing. In any case, the conversation should be long enough to allow the characters to get a sense of Relisius’ goals and personality. Iselin is better encountered traveling in the wilds, near the covenant. There should be nothing to tie her immediately to the activities at the village, although the player magi have good reason to be suspicious of any magi in the area. She is also willing to talk to them, and explain her beliefs, which she gives as an explanation for why she is investigating this newly-growing town. Iselin is not interested in a long conversation outside, and takes her leave after explaining herself. The player characters can choose how to react to the two factions; both accept allies, and the consequences of this are described later. These events simply ensure that the player magi know with whom they are dealing.''

==Countermeasures==

''This section explores some of the possible situations where the actions of the player magi force the Soterist plot off course.''

==Situation I: Alerting the Quaesitores==

''The player magi can easily gather solid evidence that the Code is being broken, and present it to the Quaesitores. The situation is certainly serious enough to warrant an investigation, and a Quaesitor is assigned to look into the problem. Depending on how the story is unfolding, the Quaesitor could either be the more experienced Magnus von Schwarzwald from the Soterist faction, or the young and neutral Delia. Magnus stalls as much as he can from his position of power. He investigates but fails to find any damning evidence, according to his reports. Delia, on the other hand, is more willing to act quickly, and her investigation involves the player magi to a greater degree. Either way the investigations result in a dramatic dampening of magical support for the village, if not a total cessation. Soterist agents still monitor the situation and try to interfere with or expose any sabotage or otherwise harmful acts by the opposition. The Wächter most likely try to expose the situation with overt and inappropriate help to frame the Soterists and discredit their methods. Whether this works depends on how well the new aid is investigated. The Quaesitors decide what crimes appear to have been committed, and how best to respond. For minor infractions the Quaesitors try to reason with both parties and have them settle their differences rather than take matter to Tribunal. Even if Tribunal action is appropriate, there are no actions in the''
''early part of this story that merit an emergency Tribunal, so the magi are told to leave the village alone or face larger penalties. They might ignore that, and, in any case, ignoring a growing village is not a realistic option for the player magi. See the section Legal Repercussions for further information, as well as suggestions for penalties.''

==Situation II: Siding with the Soterists==

''If the player magi genuinely sympathize with the Soterist cause, they might want to help. Relisius happily accepts sympathizers and recruits, but keeps his distance to begin with. The player characters need to prove themselves first, by ending any sabotage and meddling in the village. This might even include ending interference stemming from their own covenant if the player magi do not provide a united front. Relisius is careful not to give any orders or even direct suggestions to break the Code. In the short term, he wants to thin out the ranks of Iselin’s group and have his plans for the village to progress without setbacks. If events like Act II: A Church is Built and Act III: The Clay Pit haven’t been resolved yet, the player magi take the part of Relisius’ agents and try to successfully expand the village, while Wächter agents try to foil their plans. Otherwise the storyguide should run some additional situations for the player magi to prove their loyalty to the cause. Ideas for these can be found in the nearby insert. With the player magi supporting the Soterists the chances of their main plot succeeding become very high. The story follows the Acts described under Expected Sequence of Play closely, and Act V: First Blood and Act VI: Open War are likely to happen, unless the opposition has been thoroughly dealt with by that time. In this case the section''
''Aftermath: The Soterists Win should be referred to. The remaining Wächter may go to the Quaesitores if they can find evidence; refer to the section Legal Repercussions in the Aftermath section in this case.''

==Situation III: Siding with the Wächter==

''Once the Wächter faction is noticed and individual magi are identified, the player magi have the option of joining this side. The Wächter are very simple in their expectations and demands from supporters: they want to get rid of the village. Their plans are to make a statement with the razing of the village, where the support of the Soterists is exposed in the end and nature strikes back. Ideally it should look like faeries are the driving force, but the Wächter are content with some of their numbers being identified as collaborators. This is particulary true in the Rhine Tribunal , which does allow for this kind of action with the Guardians of the Forest Peripheral Code ruling (see Guardians of the Forest, page 18). If any magi in the player covenant are actively working against the Wächter or even supporting the Soterists, Iselin wants this resolved. Should some player magi still be neutral she wants them to act just enough to make it clear that they have chosen a side. Again, the events of Act II and Act III could be run with the player magi taking the role of the Wächter and trying to sabotage them, or the ideas from the insert could be used. At any rate with the Player magi helping the Wächter cause the story should progress nicely through Act V: First Blood to Act VI: Open War. If Iselin believes that the player magi are deeply committed to her cause, she involves them in planning the final assault on the village, and if they come up with a good plan, she accepts it, instead of using the Dark Huntsmen. Otherwise, she tells the characters immediately in''
''advance, telling them to go to the village to ensure that everything goes according to plan.''

==Aftermath==

''This story has several potential endings. The main possibilities are outlined here, as well as consequences for the future.''

==Soterists Win==

''If the Soterists win, the village Willehad-im-Wald is there to stay, although it might be damaged to some degree. The player magi must accept the loss of the vis sources or other supernatural resources, and make the best of it. Enterprising magi, interested in dealings with the mundane, or making clever use of suitable companions, can gain much from this new settlement. With its production and trade, as well as the improved travel conditions in the area, the village could become a source of income or supplies for the covenant. Thus, it becomes a new Boon — or Hook — depending on the outcome of the conflict. Also, having a mundane settlement in close proximity means that the magi have an easier time avoiding future encroachment on their lands, since they now have a say in the placement of any new villages.''

==Wächter Win==

''The village has been destroyed, and any maps of the area add the prefix “Cursed Ruins of” to the village name. If the player magi opposed the Soterists they may face Legal Repercussions or Hidden Enemies; see the sections later. The vis source is saved. Though it might have suffered from the church bells and expanding farmlands, in the aftermath the change could become positive. The''
''vis source could change to yield vis from a different Art or it could grow in size. This is a good opportunity to turn the vis source into a Hook. The ruined village could become a major or repeatedly used hook for stories. It could become a hideout for bandits or rogue magi. It could draw in faeries, magical creatures or even demons, if the village was ended brutally.''

==Inconclusive==

''The Soterists might be forced to pull back from their original plans, without the village being completely destroyed. Once the help and support from the Soterists stops, progress at the village grinds to a dead halt. Having lost its sense of purpose and with any trade and transport routes set up by Relisius fallen into disrepair, it reverts to the state of so many other sleepy villages. Willehad-imWald continues the day-to-day routine of an average farming community and is henceforth of little use to the player covenant in terms of income, resources or contacts. Even though the expansion has been stopped, the Dominion remains (with or without a church), and the Magic aura and vis sources are lost for now, though they might recover slightly over decades. This kind of ending should serve to show the player magi that the world around them has a life of its own, and that all choices have consequences. Sometimes you need to make hard decisions — and sometimes you win and other times you lose.''

==Legal Repercussions==

''As outlined in the section Alerting the Quaesitors, earlier, many actions and situations can lead to a Quaesitorial investigation. There is a lot of potential for variation in what evidence is left behind, what can be found, and how possible infractions are interpreted or prosecuted. The Code varies from Tribunal''
''to Tribunal, and saga to saga, but the following notes should help the storyguide to prepare.''
''Deprivation of Magical Power''
''While damage to The Gift is the ultimate violation of this provision of the Code, all situations where a magus is injured could bring charges of deprivation if it hampers mobility or spellcasting abilities. The same applies to any theft of or damage to magical property. Some situations where a magus spoils another magus’ projects or plans causing him to waste vis or significant amounts of time could also be covered by deprivation. Examples are Soterists who demand restitution for vis and wasted time if the village is foiled. Of course, the Soterist may have been breaking the Code himself. Unless The Gift of a magus is damaged or something as important and valuable as a Familiar or Talisman is lost, the consequence of this Code breach is most likely a vis fine or some other minor penalty, and should be settled out of court. Only the gravest, or most controversial, cases find their way to Tribunal.''
''Slaying a Magus''
''This is a most heinous crime, and even attempting to kill a magus is punished, most likely with a Wizard’s March. If the situation escalates and the player magi come to blows with either Soterists or Wächter, charges are brought against them; they may also bring their own charges. This sort of case goes to Tribunal unless it is impossible to prove what happened. If the defendant is seen to be guilty of negligence or questionable behavior, rather than outright and premeditated murder, the punishment could be the loss of apprentice, Familiar, or Talisman rather than death.''
''Abide by Tribunal Decisions''
''If this story goes on for many years and a Tribunal passes, there might be rulings either allowing the Wächter to protect the wild lands or deciding that support of Willehad-im-Wald is legal. Player magi might disagree with this and act against the decisions, and therefore be in violation of this provision. Penalties are likely to be much more severe than they would be for the actions themselves, as the player magi have directly challenged the authority of the Tribunal; the Quaesitores, in particular, take a very dim view of this.''
''Endangering the Order''
''If Willehad-im-Wald is razed, killing many innocents, the Bishop is none too pleased, and investigates. Such an investigation poses a real threat to the Order in that area, and, if the threat is averted, charges are very likely to be brought against the magi who are seen to be responsible. As the actions of the Wächter might lead to the destruction of the player covenant, the player magi could be the ones bringing the charges. Punishment can include Wizard’s March, particularly if any magi actually suffered serious damage.''
''Mundane Interference''
''This provision serves to prevent magi dragging the Order into the disputes of Mythic Europe by taking the side of one noble or clergyman over another. The situation with Willehad-im-Wald is certainly about furthering artificial growth, and that indirectly increases the power of the bishop, as the village is on his land. However, the bishop does not know that the growth is magically assisted, so the actions are unlikely to lead to more demands for magical help. This case could be argued either way, and even on a con''
''viction the penalty could be anything from a nominal fine to a March, depending on how the Tribunal chose to interpret the crime.''
''Molesting the Fey''
''The player magi may well come to blows with the Faerie Huntsmen used by the Wächter, which might open them to this charge. Bear in mind that a magus has the right to defend himself and retaliate, so it matters greatly who struck the first blow. The same charge could also be brought against the Wächter for their manipulation of the fay.''

==Hidden Enemies==

''No matter how the story ends, at least one of the two factions is nursing a significant loss. That faction retreats from the area to lick their wounds, but they bear a grudge for a long time. The player magi feel their enemies acting against them from the shadows. A losing Soterist faction avoids such ambitious plans as Willehad-im-Wald in the future, and instead focuses on internal matters. They act politically against the player magi as and when they can. Supporters of this cause are loath to work or deal with their political enemies. Should the Wächter lose, they retreat to their remaining wild areas and fortify themselves there. They focus on keeping what they still have rather than striking out at mundane settlements. All the while they look for and point out situations where they see magical resources lost to the Dominion in order to gain more followers. These situations could lead to a multitude of stories for the player magi during the coming years.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
