
[|
''“Then we are agreed. In this place, at this time, we shall each swear this covenant. We shall not quietly petition this Tribunal, neither shall we meekly ask. For we shall take by force of arms, and we shall demand by right of conquest. We risk everything we have and we will not stop until such land as we see fit is ours. This then is our vow.” — Avedutus Fabri of House Verditius''
''The Order of Hermes has at its heart the Hermetic Oath that binds all magi together in common understanding. When upheld, it ensures the safety and security of both the Order and the mundane world in which it exists. But for some magi, the Oath and its Code are restrictions they feel no longer apply. These magi see a world ripe for the taking, and for them, ambition and strength''
''determine right from wrong. This story sets your covenant and its magi in stark opposition to Hermetic rivals who have chosen to cast aside the Hermetic Code and use mundane nobles to wage war against their enemies and claim territory for themselves. Your magi need to employ not only their political influence, but also their magic in resisting the march of a bewitched noble and his Hermetic allies. The future of your covenant is by no means certain, as these determined aggressors may eventually wield enough power and influence to protect themselves against even the will of the Tribunal.''

==Précis==

''With the Order growing in size, and magical resources apparently limited, conquest is seen as a viable way for some magi to get what they need. In this case, a band of magi have formed a covenant under the persuasive and seductive maga Lucia, with the intention of claiming magical auras, sources of income, and vis sources by force of arms. Lucia first attempts to elevate a local noble beyond his station, a situation into which the player covenant is drawn. Then, declaring Wizard’s War on Lucia’s former covenant, now inhabited only by her aged parens, Lucia’s covenant kills its target and takes his resources. As the refugees from the assault begin arriving at the player covenant, Lucia’s intentions become clear. Now''
''threatened as the next target, the player covenant faces the choice of either defending their covenant from both magical and mundane assault, or breaking the Oath themselves by allying with a nearby city for mutual defense against the young noble’s army.''

==Background==

''Lucia was apprenticed to a magus in the turbulent Lombardy region. She watched as the cities around her fought to gain influence, to protect resources, and most importantly to secure freedom and self-determination. This intrigued her, and she began to compare these struggles to those going on within the Order of Hermes. She found the Order lacking: why, she wondered, is the Order content to live in contrived awkward peace? Why should the resources of a weak covenant be protected from those who have the might to claim them? It is not so in the mundane world, so why should it be within the Order? She first tried to bring her Calliclean philosophy to a cabal of Tytalus magi, but her extreme aims met with disapproval, not because the idea was unattractive to certain like-minded individuals but because the risks and dangers were considered too great. Ironically, given the events to come, Lucia’s parens, Maximus Severis, the last member of Castello del Selvaggio (Castle of the Selvaggio Family), was present. He and Lucia recognized each other, and he was''

==The Calliclean Philosophy==

''Lucia shares her philosophy with many in her House. It holds that laws and a belief in justice are merely artificial devices imposed by a society to keep the strong, and therefore worthy, from attaining their rightful place; the betterment of the self is considered the foremost aim at the cost of the weak. It does not profess that laws should be broken, only that they be ignored where they would limit the attainment of those things the self wants. Nor does it say anything about the manner in which actions should be conducted. Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 76, provides more detail on this philosophy.''

|]
''particularly outspoken against the plan. So Lucia resolved to find other allies and to repay her parens for his failure to support her. Avedutus’ rejection of his House’s traditional role attracted her, and he soon saw the potential in her plan: if they succeeded they would rewrite the Order’s creed, and if they failed they would achieve a glorious end. The Verditius then found Al-’Aqrab, a magus largely ostracized due to his spiteful nature and the repeated conflicts he brought upon himself. Without a covenant and forced to eke out his magical existence in the deserts of North Africa, Al-’Aqrab saw the chance to change his circumstances. Patronus was the last to join. Attracted to trouble like a crow to carrion, Patronus had been watching Lucia for some time and he sensed that something big was about to happen. On the verge of becoming a faerie and leaving his mortal life behind him, the prospect of bringing a shift to the Order seemed to him the perfect symbol of change that he needed. The four came together at Casalmaggiore in the Roman Tribunal, in a hunting lodge owned by Federico Estensi. There they determined to use violence and the threat of violence to force other magi to submit to their will.''

==Adapting the Story for Your Saga==

''This scenario assumes that the events take place in the Lombardy region of the Roman Tribunal, but the events of the story can be relocated with a little adaptation. The Hibernian Tribunal presents another ideal setting given the existing tensions between the native Irish magi and magi recently arrived from the continent, and the culture of a rough and robust life provides Lucia with a justification for her actions. Hibernia has other qualities that help support the story too,''
''in that the kings of Breifne, like others in Ireland, are selected by the elders of the prominent families; the election scene early in this scenario would find a natural home. And finally, the prevalence of supernatural powers in the lives of the Irish presents the threatened city later in the story with a reason to approach magi for protection. Beyond Hibernia, sagas set near the Levant present multiple kingdoms, claimed by Western nobles, being taken back by a reconquering Muslim population. In Iberia, the situation is reversed, with Islamic rulers being driven back to North Africa by reconquering Christian knights. The Byzantine Empire in the east is still falling in upon itself and loyalties change seemingly with the wind. Aquitaine and the surrounding areas in the Normandy Tribunal were, until recently, in English hands and loyalties still run deep on both sides. In England itself, John is dead and a new king wears the crown. But he is young and inexpe''

[|

==Primogeniture and Election==

''Most areas of Mythic Europe have a well-developed body of inheritance law, but these statutes are open to interpretation. In most cases the succession for noble title and influence is clear, for instance where an eldest son is the only viable successor to a dying father. But when a noble dies with no immediate heir these laws provide guidance to his councillors on selecting the closest relative, or the individual with the strongest claim. The selection process itself is governed by local law or custom, which may give greater weight to male heirs over female, pass title to brothers rather than nephews, or bar the female line from succession altogether. And in cases where these laws must be relied upon, the candidates have their supporters vying for future influence.''

|]
''rienced, and the barons who hold land from him vie for power and influence. If Verona is too large a city, it can be scaled down to a town or castle, and the same can be done with Casalmaggiore. The key is simply that the duke gains the power to challenge a larger force, and in doing so Lucia gains the power to challenge another covenant. Storyguides may want to change the nature of the duke’s election if this story is played in areas with strict laws of primogeniture. This can be done by changing an outright election to a council gathered to rule on points of inheritance law and by weakening the relationship between Federico and Giuliano to more distant cousins rather than brothers. A key location is the small covenant of Castello del Selvaggio. There’s a degree of leeway in this, so long as your telling of this story makes Castello del Selvaggio a valuable site for launching an attack on either Verona or the player covenant. This dwindling covenant should be introduced prior to this story being run. Alternatively, storyguides could consider one of their saga’s existing covenants as the target of the Trat''
''tato’s first action. This brings the danger home in a very clear manner, but at the cost of sacrificing saga NPCs.''

==Opportunities for Magic==

''As one of the Tales of Power, this scenario provides opportunities for the player magi to invent and use powerful magic. The climax of the story sees the magi defending their covenant, the city of Verona, or both against spells capable of tearing down an Aegis of the Hearth and devices able to breach city walls with a single touch. Having learned of these effects earlier in the story, the magi should be given time to plan and work together on magic to counter them. They also have the option to defend against a siege, which presents other challenges that magic can be used to overcome, such as resupplying a city under siege, or staving off disease. Magi brave enough to engage in direct magical combat meet a decent match in Avedutus, and seasons could easily be spent in crafting magical arms''
''and armor to match him. Alternatively, powerful Intellego spells may reveal the means to defeat him through cunning. The magi have the opportunity to work together to create more powerful effects than any could accomplish alone, and they also have the chance to fill some gaps in their existing arsenal. Improving their Aegis of the Hearth may be one approach and simple spells like the Wizard’s Communion provide a means of empowering spells.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''The key characters who appear in this scenario are listed here. Others are described as the narrative requires.''

==The Covenant of Trattato di Sangue==

''The Covenant of Trattato di Sangue (The Treaty of Blood) is an alliance of four magi from different Houses, brought together by a shared sense of discontent. Or rather, three of them resent the current order of things, and the fourth is simply out to cause trouble. The pact between them was sealed shortly after they met at the last Tribunal, so you may wish to foreshadow this story by briefly introducing some or all of the magi during a Tribunal before they make their fateful decision. Their aims are simple — to take magical resources by right of conquest and then make such a show of force that the Tribunal cannot act against them. In fact, they do not intend to stop at just the four of them; they seek converts to their cause and to further strengthen their position.''

[|

==Expected Timeline of Events==

''Before the story starts, Lucia makes passing contact with the player covenant, sending letters enquiring as to whether she might trade vis in exchange for access to the library, or asking after ownership of some invented vis source or other. She is trying to get hold of an Arcane Connection, in the form of a letter, to at least one of the covenant’s magi. She ensures that her own letters bear no Arcane Connection to her, but she has Al-’Aqrab waiting to fix any that she receives. The following time line provides gaps between the major story events, which allow time for the player magi to prepare for the conflict with Lucia and her followers. Season One Giuliano asks the covenant for help against his brother''
''Season Three	 The Trattato cast their Fate of Carthage ritual against Selvaggio lands Season Five The magi of Trattato, excluding Lucia, declare Wizard War and then attack Castello del Selvaggio Season Seven	 Verona approaches the covenant for mutual protection Season Ten The Trattato cast their Fate of Carthage ritual against covenant lands Season Twelve	The magi of Trattato, excluding Lucia, declare Wizard War and then attack both Verona and the covenant The time between events can be reduced where the players take a more pro-active route through the story, perhaps by confronting the Trattato over the attack on Castello del Selvaggio.''

==Lucia Filia Maximus==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +2, Str –1, Sta –1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 74 (42) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 4 (10) Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Minor Magical Focus (Seduction), Quiet Magic (×2), Self-Confident, Subtle Magic, Venus’ Blessing; Driven (to gain power), Tormenting Master; Offensive to Animals, Weak Enchanter Personality Traits: Scheming +3, Controlling +2, Cruel +1 Reputations: Federico’s Lover 2 (Casalmaggiore court) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +0, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage –1 Soak: –1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Awareness 3 (alertness), Carouse 3 (courtly dances), Charm 4 (magi), Code of Hermes 3 (Tribunal procedures), Etiquette 4 (court), Finesse 3 (casting speed), Folk Ken 4 (magi), Guile 4 (misdirection), Intrigue 4 (plotting), Italian 5 (poetry), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 4''
''(magi), Magic Theory 5 (Mentem), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (personalities), Parma Magica 5 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Mentem), Philosophiae 2 (ceremonial magic) Arts: Cr 16, In 13, Mu 10, Pe 16, Re 10, An 5, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 15, He 5, Ig 11, Im 6, Me 19, Te 5, Vi 9 Equipment: Red dress, earring talisman Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Disguise of the Transformed Image (MuIm 15/+15) Words of the Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10/+34) All Heads Turn (CrMe 15/+54*+) Defend Me (CrMe 20/+34) The Subtle Burn of Desire (CrMe 20/+54*+) A Night’s Passion (CrMe 25/+54*+) Revelation of a Hundred Sinful Thoughts (InMe 30/+44*) Distraction of the Weakened Mind (PeMe 5/+34) All Vows Forgotten (PeMe 20/+54*+) Enchantment of Detachment (PeMe 15/+34) Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20/+28) Extracting the False Confession (ReMe 40/+28) Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 15/+18) Appearance: A striking woman in her early forties with dark hair, pale skin, and lips of deep pink. Red is her color and she is always seen wearing a red dress, which makes the red sash around her middle less obvious. When meeting magi, the dress is decorated with gold brocade, the material stiff, making her appear''
''more like an icon of rulership than a human being, and her cap is decorated with gold and gems to resemble a crown. When within the court of Casalmaggiore, she wraps herself in her Disguise of the Transformed Image spell, returning the stunning beauty of her mid-twenties. Her dress is fitted close to her figure, and a little of her hair is visible, as if by accident, from under her cap. If magi spy on her in her laboratory, she wears simple, and practical, masculine clothes, although they are still red. In all cases, her talisman, a gold and emerald earring, is visible on her left ear. Casting Sigil: A sense of arousal is felt by her targets or by those detecting the residues of her spells. * Includes her Magical Focus + 	 Includes talisman bonuses''
''Lucia possesses a distracting beauty, especially to mundanes with little chance to resist her enchantments. Gifted with the ability to cast silently and without gestures, her preferred spells all use the Eye range. These gifts make detecting her spell-casting difficult and she commonly employs any number of minor spontaneous Mentem effects to ensure she gets her way. Among magi, she dresses and behaves so that her beauty is striking rather than alluring, and reinforces her aura of authority. She relies on her considerable social skill rather than magic, at least to begin with.''

|]
''The four magi of the Trattato are caught in a spiral. Their arrogance, delusions, envy, and arbitrary desire for change are reinforcing each other. They have no set lands they wish to gain, no particular vis sources to target, and no limits to their ambition. This is little more than a game to Lucia and Patronus, the fulfillment of destiny for Avedutus, and a means to strike back at the world for Al-’Aqrab.''
''Lucia filia Maximus of House Tytalus''
''Lucia wants to control people and material wealth. She wants to rule, and as a child it was already apparent to her that Mythic Europe does not like to see women rule. Her initial delight at the openness of the Order of Hermes soon turned to contempt for its refusal to let one maga rule over another. She resolved to prove that she could rule both magi and mundanes.''
''Among mundanes, she is the archetypal seductress, the woman in red, the femme fatale: ambitious, manipulative, mock-vulnerable, and deadly. She is willing and able to use her sexuality to lead others astray and bend them to her will. Lucia is naturally attractive, and a mistress of subtle Mentem magic, so this form of rulership comes easily to her. She has mastered a number of spells that promote amorous desire in her targets, fascination in those around her, and ad''
''oration in those who follow her, and her powers are strengthened by her magical focus in seduction magic. Among magi, on the other hand,''
''she wants to rule openly, respected and feared by the Order, and holding authority by her own power. She avoids using magic on magi as much as pos''
''sible, as her sigil is an embarrassment to her in this context, and relies on her allies far more than she is willing to admit. To compensate, Lucia often assumes an authority she does not really have, and can lose her temper when challenged. If you choose to have her develop new spells over the course of this story, she focuses on Ignem or Corpus spells that she believes will allow her to attack her foes (the player characters) directly. She makes sensible choices based on what she knows of the player characters’ strengths and weaknesses.''
''Avedutus Fabri of House Verditius''
''Avedutus has long railed against a docile Order. He watches the mundane world, with its kings and conquests, and has concluded the world is all the better for it. He is blind to the suffering that wars bring, seeing only the glory of fighting for a cause. His Formulaic magic is hampered by the pain caused by spellcasting, as a result of which he has learned very few spells. He relies instead upon the effects enchanted into his arms and armor. His personal weaknesses are his pride, arrogance, and willingness to be led by Lucia. But he has magical vulnerabilities too. Unusually, his casting tools are too large to be used on the move. He needs an anvil and a selection of hammers and other blacksmithing tools to be able to cast his magic. He also suffers from the Weak Magic Resistance Flaw (ArM5, page 61), which applies when the caster is touching these casting tools; a rare situation, but given Avedutus’ frequent separation from them this can be exploited by his enemies. He sees his craft as a means to an end, not an end in and of itself. His thrill comes from the battlefield and his art is expressed in the arms and armor that he carries and wears. The hubris common to his House is expressed on''

[|

==Lucia’s Grimoire and Items==

''All Heads Turn''
''CrMe 15 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Room Normally cast as Lucia enters a room, this spell subtly draws the attention of all those in the room towards the caster. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Room)''
''Defend Me''
''CrMe 20 R: Eye, D: Concentration, T: Group Plants the suggestion into the mind of the target group that Lucia must be defended from harm. In most cases this is even enough to prompt enemies to come to her defense. Those under the spell must make a Personality Check against Ease Factor 9 to take any detrimental action against Lucia. Her Venus’ Blessing Virtue provides a –3 penalty to any such rolls. (Base 4, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration, +2 Group)''
''Extracting the False Confession''
''ReMe 40 R: Arcane Connection, D: Momentary, T: Ind Through this spell Lucia implants a magical command into the mind of the target. This effect is used specifically to make the target write and send a letter. The letter’s theme and recipient are decided by Lucia at the time of casting and form part of the magical suggestion. Characters possessing appropriate Virtues may be granted a Person''
''ality Roll against Ease Factor 9 to resist writing the letter, in which case they may become suspicious about the urge. (Base 20, +4 Arcane Connection)''
''All Vows Forgotten''
''PeMe 20 R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind This spell diminishes the importance of whatever vow, promise, obligation, or duty should be uppermost in the target’s mind at the time of casting. (Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)''
''Revelation of a Hundred Sinful Thoughts''
''InMe 30 R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind This is Lucia’s reinvention of the common Peering into the Mortal Mind spell. She uses it primarily to interrogate her target for his weaknesses and indiscretions, which she can then use to gain leverage over him. (Base 25, +1 Eye)''
''Distraction of the Weakened Mind''
''PeMe 5 R: Eye, D: Momentary, T: Ind This spell removes a specific memory from the target’s mind. Specifically, the memory is of whatever activity Lucia is engaged in when she casts the spell upon her target. So if she persuades a guard to let her into a locked room she casts this spell upon him and he remembers''

|]
''the battlefield, not in the workshop. Avedutus is in league with an armorer by the name of Alle Deudati, a merchant called upon to lend an air of Hermetic legality to any sales of enchanted items. He also trained an apprentice in earlier years, who can be found living outside the Tribunal.''
''Mutationis Patronus of House Merinita''
''Patronus is a Merinita magus taken to the edge of turning into a creature fully of the Faerie Realm. Initiated into the Inner Merinita Mystery of Becoming, he has already transformed his body and his mind with only his spirit to go, for which he needs a significant Faerie aura, and time and resources to develop a suitable laboratory. But he is one of the two distinct weak links within the covenant. His concern is simply change for change’s sake. He has no loyalty to Lucia or the other magi. Almost as a faerie might take vitality from invoking and promoting given situations, so Patronus gladly sees his companions achieve their aims while already anticipating their eventual downfall. Unknown to Avedutus, he is fully aware of the Verditius’ weaknesses regarding his casting tools, and it is information that he may be willing to part with should he need to protect himself in the future.''
''Al-’Aqrab of Ex Miscellanea''
''From a lineage of Ex Miscellanea ritualists, the Tunisian Al-’Aqrab gains his true power through the magical efforts of others. This does not imply an altruistic streak. In truth, he must struggle to contain his envious and selfish nature that would otherwise see him take the spoils at the expense of his colleagues. He has lived long enough that rumors have collected around him. He''
''seems to appear at the heart of some trouble or other and then disappear to nobody knows where, like a scorpion sinking back into the sand. If the magi''
''recognize this, his scorpion-like nature could be exploited to weaken his covenant.''

[|

==Lucia’s Grimoire and Items (cont’d)==

''only that they talked. He does not recall that she entered the off-limits room. (Base 4, +1 Eye)''
''The Subtle Burn of Desire''
''CrMe 20 R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind This spell instills in the target a simmering physical desire for one person, most often Lucia herself. This gives the target a temporary Personality Trait “Desire for Lucia” at +2, which influences the target’s behavior throughout the spell’s duration. (Base 4, +1 Eye, +3 Moon)''
''A Night’s Passion''
''CrMe 25 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind Usually cast upon a sleeping target, often slumbering due to Lucia’s Call to Slumber spell, this spell creates the lasting memory of a nightlong sexual encounter with Lucia, the content of which is decided by Lucia at the time of casting, though her target is free to embellish or exaggerate upon the memory in due course. Targets who make an Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9 realize the memory is false, but those already under another of Lucia’s lasting enchantments have a –3 penalty to this roll. Once cast, the memory remains for Moon duration, long enough for the memory to settle and fade, making the loss of it less jarring. She has used this spell on Federico many times, and if the player characters detect, and understand, it they may come to wonder whether she has ever actually''
''slept with him. One drawback to this spell is that it is an active magical effect, detectable to those using Intellego Vim spells. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''Lucia’s Talisman: An Emerald Earring''
''Lucia wears a tiny gold and emerald earring in her left ear. It has been opened with 10 pawns of vis and has been attuned to provide a +4 bonus to spells that incite love or passion (factored into casting totals above). Using either instilled effect in the presence of magi could be construed as a breach of the Code.''
''Veil of Invisibility PeIm 16 Pen +0, 2/day R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Individual Effects as per the spell described in ArM5, page 146. (Base 4, +1 Concentration, +1 for changing image; +1 for 2 uses per day, +5 device maintains concentration)''
''From Across the Room InIm 18 Pen +0, 6/day R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Hearing Enhances Lucia’s hearing such that she can listen in to whispered conversations conducted across the room. She has fine control over this and is able to focus on the conversation she is interested in. (Base 3, +1 Concentration, +3 Hearing; +3 for 6 uses per day)''

|]

==Tales of Power Expected Sequence of Play==

''The story begins when the player magi are approached by Giuliano, heir to the dukedom of Casalmaggiore,''
''asking for help against a magical force that threatens to steal his throne. This force turns out to be the first of the rogue covenant members that the magi meet across this story. The player covenant has the choice to either involve themselves in opposition to Hermetic magi, or to avoid potential interfer''
''ence in mundane affairs and leave the dukedom to its fate. Soon after this, a nearby covenant, Castello del Selvaggio, falls to Avedutus, the spoils of Wizard War, and with a number of refugee covenfolk arriving at their gates the player covenant sees the plans of their Hermetic enemies''

[|

==Avedetus Fabri==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +3, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 85 (50) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 5 (10) Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Major Magical Focus (damage); Improved Characteristics, Items of Quality, Self-Confident, Puissant Finesse, Puissant Perdo, Verditius Magic*, Warrior; Ambitious, Painful Magic; Weak Magic Resistance (When caster has Avedutus’ casting tools), Hubris, Poor Formulaic Magic, Slow Caster Personality Traits: Disciplined +2, Hubris +2, Violent +2 Reputations: Mysterious Knight 2 (French tournament circuit) Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack N/A, Defense +5, Damage N/A Fist: Init –2, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +1 Long Sword & Heater Shield: Init +0, Attack +18, Defense +16, Damage +7 Soak: +16 (+3 if Gift of Bear’s Fortitude is active, and a further +3 against metal weapons due to his Form Bonus) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Roman Tribunal''
''2 (geography), Armorer 5 (mail), Artes Liberales 4 (ligatures), Brawl 5 (fist), Code of Hermes 2 (mundane relations), Finesse 6 +2 (craft magic), Italian 5 (Lombard), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 4 (in battle), Magic Theory 7 (Perdo), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (items), Parma Magica 6 (Corpus), Penetration 4 (Perdo), Philosophiae 5 (items of quality), Ride 4 (battle), Single Weapon 6 (long sword), Swordsmith 5 (long swords), Verditius Cult Lore 3 (initiating others) Arts: Cr 12, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 15+3, Re 10, An 5, Aq 5, Au 11, Co 16, He 5, Ig 17, Im 5, Me 5, Te 11, Vi 11 Equipment: Enchanted arms and armor (see later), large hammer (casting tool for Ball of Abysmal Flame) Encumbrance: 2 (3) Spells Known: Breath of the Open Sky (CrAu 40/+44) Bind Wound (CrCo 10/+29) Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude at Touch Range (MuCo 30/+22) The Hammer Falls (PeCo 35/+51) Burn His Eyes Out (PeCo 40/+51) Ball of Abysmal Flame (CrIg 35/+42) Ward Against Heat and Flames (ReIg 25/+28) The Swordsmith’s Art (ReTe 10/+22), Mastery 1 (precise casting) The Armorer’s Art (ReTe 15/+22), Mastery 1 (precise casting) Spell of Wrought Iron (ReTe 15/+22) Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 15/+17) Watching Ward (ReVi 35/+31) Appearance: A mature knight, still''
''young enough to fight but old enough to rule the world. He wears his graying hair savagely short and his steely eyes are lined with age. His square jaw is perpetually covered with a growth of mottled-gray stubble. He is never without his mail armor Talisman and his enchanted sword. His surcoat bears the five-ringed hand of Verditius against a red shield. He wears a red sash tied around his belt, as a knight might wear the colors of a lady. Casting Sigil: The sound of hammer against anvil is heard with his spells, but the sigil manifests as the odor of red-hot iron in spell residues. *	 House Virtue''
''Avedutus has a number of Rego Craft Magic spells, which thanks to his well-practiced Finesse he can cast with some proficiency. His favored technique is to work his magic within a forge, where he can draw the molten iron and steel into the form he desires. He usually prepares himself by creating a ligature to provide natural resonances, and relies upon his self-confidence and belief in his own abilities. He has mastered these spells with the Precise Casting mastery ability (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 34). He also has a number of damaging spells and rituals that he is able to cast from the safety of his forge and anvil, though he now most often casts these with the aid of the Wizard’s Communion taught him by Al-’Aqrab.''

==Avedutus’ Arms and Armor==

''Given that Avedutus would find it nearly impossible to cast magic in the heat of battle, due to the clumsiness of his casting tools and the pain his magic causes him, he relies heavily upon his enchanted devices.''
''The Armor of Aeneas''
''Avedutus’ talisman is his shirt of mail, opened with 20 pawns of Vis and enhanced as an Item of Quality as per the Verditius mystery (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 124). The armor has enhanced strength, with a total +15 protection bonus, and a warding effect that protects Avedutus against mundane human attacks. As a talisman, it has been attuned to the +7 bonus to protect its wearer. This may come into play should Avedutus need to use any Fast Cast Defense spells, which he can do without recourse to his casting tools.''
''Ward Against Humans ReCo 29 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual This ward, enchanted into the armor, prevents any mundane human unprotected by Magic Resistance from taking any harmful action against the wearer. On the battlefield this essentially means that Avedutus’ enemies cannot make attacks of any kind against him. He has specifically omitted a Penetration score from the design as he will test himself against those who carry some form of Magic Resistance. This effect is a means to simply drive his mundane opponents before him, ensuring he can cross the battlefield and pick his targets. (Base 15, +2 Sun; +1 2/day, +3 trigger at sunrise/sunset)''
''Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude MuCo 25 R: Personal, D:Sun, T:Individual Pen +0, 1/day''
''Makes the wearer’s skin tough and resistant to damage, providing a +3 to Soak, as described in ArM5, page 131. (Base 15, +2 Sun)''
''Bind Wound CrCo 5 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual Pen +0, 1/day As per the spell effect described on ArM5, page 129. (Base 3, +2 Sun)''
''Ward Against Heat and Flames ReIg 20 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual Pen +0, 1/day As per the spell effect described on ArM5, page 143, this spell keeps heat and flames away from the wearer, which provides a +15 Soak bonus against heat or flame damage. (Base 4, +2 for up to +15 damage, +2 Sun)''
''Chiron’s Gift''
''Avedutus’ sword is named in reference to the blade given to Peleus by the centaur Chiron, the magical powers of which won Peleus many victories in battle. This sword is an Item of Quality, providing a +4 bonus to harm human and animal bodies, which translates as a +4 attack bonus (already factored into Avedutus’ stats). It has been opened with 15 pawns of vis and contains the following enchantments.''
''They Fall Away Beneath My Stride PeCo 40 R: Touch, D:Momentary, T:Group Pen +0, unlimited use This enchantment is triggered by Avedutus crying “Chiron” when striking a human target. That target, and up to nine other human targets composing a Group, each suffer a Heavy Wound as a resounding wave of thunder tears''
''through them. This is in addition to any natural damage that the initial target takes as a result of the strike. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Group; +10 unlimited use)''
''A Sure and Deadly Blow PeCo 36 R: Touch, D:Momentary, T:Individual Pen +26, 6/day Noting that knights might be protected by relics, hedge wizards by charms, and grogs by the Parma Magica, Avedutus invested his sword with a Penetrating effect. This enchantment has a Penetration of +26 and, if the effect beats the target’s Magic Resistance, inflicts a Heavy Wound on the target. This is in addition to any damage arising from Avedutus’ own attack. (Base 15, +1 Touch; +13 for 26 penetration, +3 for 6 uses per day)''
''The Bridle of Obedience''
''ReAn 34 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind Pen +0, constant effect Triggered when the bridle is put onto a horse, the effect places the animal completely under the rider’s control regardless of whether that rider has The Gift or is unknown to the horse. The horse becomes fearless on the field of battle no matter what magic it witnesses or how many men bear down upon it. Designed by Avedutus for use in battle, the bridle is large and robust, but the constant application of magic to the animal induces magical Warping, assuming the horse survives Avedutus’ battles for long enough. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 two uses/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''Breaching the Wall''
''PeTe 25 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Part''

|]
''becoming clear: capture and hold. The final act sees the magi of the Trattato set their sights on the player covenant and the Duca di Casalmaggiore set his sights on the nearby city of Verona.''

==Act One: Rain on the Wind==

''This act introduces the covenant of Trattato as Lucia attempts to ensure the succession of her chosen pawn to a position of wealth and influence.''

==The Succession==

''After the death of the Duca di Casalmaggiore, his two nephews vie for his vacant throne. Federico is on the verge of succeeding in his claim, assisted by the horoscopes of the court astrologer and the wiles of his Hermetic lover. But his twin, Giuliano, is the firstborn and has the legitimate claim despite lacking political influence. And so Giuliano turns to the Order for assistance, in the knowledge that he needs to fight the magic in his brother’s employ with magic of his own.''
''A Ducal Request''
''Giuliano and his entourage arrive at the player covenant without warning and demand audience. He firmly asserts his rank and refuses to be put off, citing a matter of grave urgency. When presented to the magi, or their senior representatives, he demands their assistance in exposing his brother’s lies and trickery. He contests that his uncle’s throne is his by right as he is the firstborn twin, but that the court astrologer, Hieronymous, has persuaded the court that a''

[|

==Avedutus’ Arms and Armor (cont’d)==

''Pen +0, charged device These crossbow bolts, when loosed from a crossbow, destroy a section of solid wall. The collapsed section is large enough for an armed assault to breach the wall.''
''The Anvil''
''Perhaps Avedutus’ biggest handicap is the makeup of his casting tools. In order to cast any Formulaic or Ritual magic Avedutus needs an anvil and his selection of hammers and other metalworking tools; as he casts, he strikes a strip of iron or bronze. He accommodates these casting tools in a tall wagon pulled by stout oxen and driven by a downtrodden grog. The sides of the wagon fold down completely, allowing Avedutus to use the wagon as a raised platform, able to cast spells at Sight and Voice range. Given that his Parma Magica is weakened by anyone holding his casting tools, the wagon is built from solid oak and straps of iron. It is kept locked and his squire has the large iron key. Avedutus has cast a Watching Ward (ArM5, page 162) upon the wagon, which triggers a Ball of Abysmal Flame when the lock is broken or removed without using the key. The effect has a Penetration of +36 and deals +30 damage, targeting the individual who triggered the spell.''
''The Hammer Falls PeCo 35 R: Arcane Connection, D: Momentary, T: Individual Acting through an Arcane Connection, this spell immediate causes the target to suffer a Heavy Wound. (Base 15, +4 Arcane Connection)''
''Burn His Eyes Out PeCo 40 R:Arcane Connection, D: Momentary, T: Individual''
''Acting through an Arcane Connection, this spell immediate destroys the target’s vision. The damage can be healed over time and is treated as a Heavy Wound. (Base 20, +4 Arcane Connection)''
''The Spell of Wrought Iron ReTe 15 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Group The spell transforms raw pig-iron from a furnace into plain bars of wrought iron, as if a blacksmith had worked the iron in his forge. The magus must succeed in a Perception + Finesse roll to work the bars and separate out the slag. The task is normally Easy (6) for a blacksmith, so the base Ease Factor is 9. Failure means the iron and inclusions do not separate; a botch means that the inclusions go unnoticed, and the iron is flawed and cracks under strain. As the spell presented in Covenants, page 51. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Group, +2 metal)''
''The Swordsmith’s Art ReTe 10 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Turns a single piece of prepared iron into a blade, the quality determined by the caster’s Perception + Finesse roll. A standard quality sword requires an Ease Factor of 15. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 metal, +1 complexity)''
''The Armorer’s Art ReTe 15 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Turns a single piece of prepared iron into a suit of mail, the quality determined by the caster’s Perception + Finesse roll. A standard quality item requires an Ease Factor of 21. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 metal, +2 complexity)''

|]
''great calamity will befall the dukedom unless an heir is elected by a council of nobles and princes. He believes that Hieronymous’ magic is being turned to his brother’s aid and wishes to prove it. He also tells of a woman who is beguiling the court in order to secure his brother’s claim to the ducal throne. Asked why the covenant should help him, Giuliano is forthright; because he asks it of them. If, as is likely, the covenant requires more convincing, he says because he believes the woman, Lucia, to be one of them and that he knows enough of the Order to know that what she is doing is wrong. And if yet more inducement is required, he offers the income of a sizable fief to them for as long as his reign should last, assuming his brother’s trickery is exposed and his claim discredited. If the magi themselves refuse to help him, he suggests that they must at least have associates, learned in magic and astrology, who could at least guide him in these matters. This presents the covenant with the opportunity to use its companions and grogs to first gather information and second earn a new source of income. Giuliano escorts any willing to help him to Casalmaggiore as members of his retinue. At this stage, the magi may decide to decline to help Giuliano in any way. In this case Giuliano leaves vowing some ill-defined revenge at some ambiguous time in the future, Federico is elected, and his brother is exiled to some small estate where he turns to taxing his vassals hard out of frustration and spite.''
''The Court of Casalmaggiore''
''The heart of the Casalmaggiore region is a palace of white stonework, fortified yet elegant, and surrounded by orchards and villages. It sits on the river Po to the southwest of Verona, and there are several bridges that span the river, ensuring a steady stream of''

[|

==Mutationis Patronus==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: –2 Age: 82 (15) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 11 (6) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Animae Magic*, Becoming*, Faerie Magic**, Fast Caster, Luck, Minor Magical Focus (selftransformation); Dwarf, Deficient Technique (Intellego); Carefree, Clumsy Magic, Hedge Wizard * 	 Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 92 & 93 ** 	 House Virtue Personality Traits: Impish +3, Duplicitous +2, Meddlesome +1 Reputations: Hedge Wizard 3 (Roman magi) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +0, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage –1 Kick: Init –1, Attack +0, Defense –1, Damage +2 Soak: 0 Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–3), –3 (4–6), –5 (7–9), Incapacitated (10–12) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (ceremonial magic), Awareness 3 (alertness), Bargain 2 (faeries), Carouse 3 (drinking songs), Charm 2 (first impressions), Concentration 2 (spell concentration), Faerie Lore 3, Faerie Magic 9 (becoming), Finesse 5 (casting speed), Folk Ken 2 (magi), Guile 2 (elaborate lies), Italian 5 (curses), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Magic Theory 5 (Muto), Music 3 (sing), Organisation Lore: House Merinita 3 (modifying initiation scripts), Parma Magica 4 (Corpus), Penetration 4 (Muto), Philosophiae 2 (metaphysics) Arts: Cr 16, In 10, Mu 20, Pe 10, Re 12, An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 5, He 10, Ig 0, Im 10, Me 8, Te 9, Vi 20''
''Twilight Scars: Patronus’ shadow moves of its own accord, and his eyes glitter with flecks of silver and gold. He also finds the smell of iron nauseating, so spends as little time with Avedutus as possible, and he can tell true gold from false. Equipment: Patronus carries very little with him; a simple flute and usually some vis of various forms to bolster his spontaneous casting. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: The Wooden Horde (CrHe 35/+30) A Pocketful of Soldiers (MuHe 35/+30) The Ear for Distant Voices (InIm 20/+10) Veil of Invisibility (PeIm 20/+20) Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10/+22) The Distracted Turb (CrMe 45/+24) Touch of Midas (CrTe 20/+29) Bring Forth the Lord of Knives (CrTe 35/+25) The Earth Split Asunder (ReTe 30/+21) The Heady Rush of Magic (CrVi 5/+36) Piercing the Faerie Veil (InVi 20/+15) Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 20/+40) Dreadful Bane of the Fae (PeVi 10/+30) Circular Ward Against Faeries (ReVi 20/+32) Casting Sigil: Visible strands of light and stars stream from his fingertips to the targets of his spells. His spell residues give off tiny sparkles when investigated. Appearance: Since the rites of Becoming he has appeared as a juvenile boy. He is small for his apparent age and has unkempt ginger hair and a band of golden freckles across his nose. Due to warping his eyes also glitter and shimmer with gold and silver. He is dressed differently every time he is encountered, sometimes as a ragged child and sometimes like a miniature prince, but he always wears the red sash denoting his membership of the Trattato. Strikingly, he only talks through a mask that he brings to his face each time he wishes to speak.''

|]
''merchants and commerce and making Casalmaggiore an important and wealthy place. The court is covered by a level 2 Dominion aura. With the election of the new duke due to take place tomorrow, the town of Casalmaggiore is busy with numerous knights, merchants, clerics, and others gathered to witness or participate in the election and coronation. There is nowhere left to stay in the town, but Giuliano offers the magi and companions one of several standing chambers within the palace. Their grogs join the other lower retainers and sleep in whatever space is given to them, most likely on floors or in outbuildings. Giuliano is greeted by loyal courtiers who receive his magical guests with a degree of trepidation and distrust, with the magi overhearing some of their misgivings.''
''The Eve of Succession''
''The action takes place from six in the evening onwards, during celebrations for Giuliano’s return to the city and the politicking of the election. This gives the magi, or their unGifted companions, the chance to mingle and judge the mood of the room. In particular, this is the scene in which the players meet Lucia and Avedutus. Lucia and Avedutus recognize any magi present, unless they are attempting to disguise themselves and their nature, and treat them with caution. If you introduced the magi of the Trattato at Tribunal ahead of this story the player magi automatically recognize them given their distinctive looks. Lucia is not best-pleased at being seen by magi in her seductive guise. The evening is accompanied by music from a troupe of musicians, and the intrigues proceed amid the dancing. It seems that both factions are hard at work and characters engaging in Intrigue may learn the following:''

[|

==Patronus’ Talisman and Grimoire==

''Patronus has created a Talisman, and knows several uncommon spells.''
''The Mask of False Intent''
''Patronus’ talisman is a painted leather mask in the shape of an exaggerated elderly face.''
''The Changing Expression MuAn 11 Pen +0/Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual Triggered each time Patronus brings the mask to his own face, this effect changes the expression shown on the mask. One time elation, another horror, followed by surprise, and anger, and everything in between. (Base 1; +10 for unlimited use)''
''The Face of Burlone MuAn 40 Pen +0/Unlimited Use R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Individual This effect, achieved through Animae Magic, gives the mask a life of its own by transforming it into a faerie. Its form remains the mask but it gains personality and independence of thought. Patronus uses this mostly to amuse himself, but also to put others off-guard. The faerie’s personality matches the mask’s current expression. (Base 15, +1 Concentration, +5 levels for Might Score; +5 Device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''
''The Wooden Horde''
''CrHe 45 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Group This Animae Magic ritual creates ten Herbam-based faeries each''
''with a Faerie Might of 1. Each faerie has a general motivation decided by the caster at the time of casting. Examples might be to attack particular targets, to defend a given person, item, or place, or simply to amuse. Patronus summons these faeries with the waxing and waning of the moon to protect the tower occupied by the Trattato. They swarm in the trees and grass around the tower and threaten any not wearing a red sash. No larger than a human hand, these faeries pose little threat individually, but they engage in combat as a swarm of creatures. See the statistics and swarm rules in the nearby insert. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +2 Group; +10 levels for Might)''
''A Pocketful of Soldiers''
''MuHe 30 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Group This Animae Magic spell creates a horde of ten Herbam-based faeries each with a Faerie Might of 1 by transforming a large group of wooden items. A woodcutter’s pile or a thatched roof is enough. Patronus uses these faeries to sow instant confusion or to attack specified targets (anyone not wearing red, for instance). Enough of these capricious creatures stay on-task to make a decent threat, while others engage in harmless tomfoolery. The faeries only last for a diameter and then they fall to the ground, turning back into their original forms, when the spell expires. No larger than a human hand, these faeries pose little threat individually, but they engage in combat as a swarm of creatures. See the''

|]
''• Giuliano’s relationship with one Nanino da Bologna, a young male student in his retinue, is being called into question. • There are suspicions that the old Duke met his end before his time (as the storyguide, you are free to decide whether there is any truth in this and by whose hand he may have died). • Giuliano did much offend his uncle, hence his long absence from the court. • Federico and Lucia are to be wed, though the news is to be kept secret until after the election. • Giuliano has betrayed his brother by attempting to steal the Lady Lucia away from him.''
''It is here that Hieronymous and Lucia can be seen in frequent conversation with Federico. Avedutus is on constant guard and does not, without permission from Lucia, allow strangers to impose upon Lucia. At ten in the evening, a fanfare is sounded and Hieronymous announces that the election must now take place.''
''A Meeting of Hermetic Minds''
''Lucia claims to be at court for simply social reasons, and is open that she maintains a sanctum nearby and therefor has a connection to the court. She also attempts to shift any suspicion of wrongdoing onto Hieronymous. She “suspects” him to be manipulating the election, but that she has taken care to ensure that no magic is used to influence the result one way or the other. A lie, obviously, but this is left to the magi to determine. She even offers a mockwarning that they should take care lest they be accused of meddling in mundane affairs. If challenged on her relationship with either of the brothers, she seeds misdirection with truth and simply asks how a woman is supposed to secure land''

[|

==Patronus’ Talisman and Grimoire (cont’d)==

''statistics and swarm rules in the nearby insert. (Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter, +2 Group; +10 levels for Might)''
''The Distracted Turb''
''CrMe 45 R: Voice, D: Diameter, T: Group Using Animae Magic, this spell creates a faerie with a Might of 1 in the mind of each member of the target group. The faeries play at the edges of their host’s vision, apparently hiding behind things in the external world, or running quickly away whenever their hosts try to look at them directly. They appear threatening and malicious, and act as though they are flanking their targets and getting ready for an attack. Although the Target is the Group of Mentem faeries being created, they are created within the minds of a group of target individuals. As such, this spell must penetrate any Magic Resistance possessed by members of this group. A Personality Check against Ease Factor 6 is required to hold firm to the physical threat at hand rather than be distracted by these faeries. Appropriate Personality Trait should be agreed with the storyguide. (Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Diameter, +2 Group; +10 levels for Might)''
''Bring Forth the Lord of Knives''
''CrTe 35 R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual This Animae Magic spell conjures a slender faerie made of black iron with rusted squeaky joints and''
''long knives for fingers. The menacing creature has a Faerie Might of 10. Brought forth only when Patronus has need of a bodyguard, the Lord of Knives defends its master viciously and to its own destruction. See the nearby insert for this faerie’s statistics. Created through transient magic, although the Lord of Knives has its own Might Score, Patronus’ Penetration total on conjuring this faerie needs to beat the Magic Resistance of this faerie’s opponents if it is to do them harm. That being the case, it is most useful against unprotected mundanes. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Diameter; +10 levels for Might)''
''The Heady Rush of Magic''
''CrVi 5 R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual Patronus has used this spell over many years to warp himself. Each casting inflicts a single Warping Point on the caster, usually not enough to risk Twilight, but enough to produce a steadily increasing Warping Score, which he needs in order to finally achieve transforming himself into a faerie. (Base 5)''
''Dreadful Bane of the Fae''
''PeVi 10 R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual As per Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (ArM5, page 160), but affects faeries. This version strips 10 from the Might Score if it penetrates Magic Resistance. (Base effect, +2 Voice)''

==Patronus’ Faeries==

''The following faeries are summoned into existence by Patronus’ spells.''
''The Lord of Knives''
''Faerie Might: 10 (Terram) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Damage, Improved Soak (x3), Lesser Faerie Power (Damaging Effect); Sovereign Ward (sea water); Arthritis, Incognizant Personality Traits: Loyal to Creator +3, Wicked +2 Combat: Knife: Init +2, Atk +9, Def +8, Dam +8 (includes the bonus from Improved Damage, but not the Damaging Effect power) Soak: +8 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Athletics (running) 3, Awareness (in combat) 3, Brawl (knife) 5 Powers: Damaging Effect 0 points, Init –2 (2 intricacy points on cost). Adds +5 to the damage for the Lord’s knives, in an obviously unnatural way; for instance the knives can be seen to cause wounds while leaving armor unscathed. The bonus for this power has not been calculated into the combat stats above. Equipment: None Vis: As an impermanent thing, this faerie has no vis. Appearance: A gangly skeleton of rusting black iron bars with bulbous joints and arms tipped with knives in place of fingers. It squeaks and squeals as it moves but is deceptively fast.''
''The Lord of Knives’ creaking skeleton suffers from arthritis, which means''
''he is liable to seize up on any combat botch. This can be brought on immediately by the presence of sea water, which is this faerie’s sovereign ward. The smallest drop of true sea water that touches the faerie’s body rusts it solid within a round and it starts to fall into lifeless rusted flakes in the next round.''
''The Wooden Horde''
''The statistics here are for the horde of summoned faeries both as individuals and acting as a swarm.''
''Faerie Might: 1 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str –20, Sta –1, Dex +2, Qik +14 Characteristics (swarm): Int 0, Per +1, Pre +1, Com –1, Str +2, Sta –1, Dex +2, Qik +4 Size: –10 Size (swarm): +1 Virtues and Flaws: Improved Damage; Incognizant Personality Traits: Hungry +2, Mischievous +1 Combat: Bite: Init +14, Atk +11, Def +9, Dam –14 Bite (swarm): Init +4, Atk +11, Def +9, Dam +8 Soak: +0 Wound Penalties: Dead (1+) Wound Penalties (swarm): –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Athletics (running) 3, Awareness (in combat) 3, Brawl (bite) 5, Hunt (fleeing combatants) 5 Powers: None Equipment: None Vis: None Appearance: A teeming jumble of tiny faeries made of sticks and leaves scrambling over each other to get to their targets or anything else that looks in any way edible.''
''Optional Rule: Swarms''
''A swarm is a mass of creatures of Size –3 or smaller with a combined Size of +1 or more. Given the fluid makeup of a swarm, it is almost impossible to stop one in its tracks. Shield grogs are used to holding off single or even group enemies but a swarm has the power to overwhelm defenders. Apply the following rules:''
''• Swarms ignore defenders and can always reach their intended target. • Swarms may attack a number of targets equal to the swarm’s size each round. • At the storyguide’s discretion, swarms may have an immunity or resistance to regular weapons; a blade passing harmlessly through a swarm of locusts, for instance. • Being made up of many smaller individuals, a swarm is hard to destroy. Unless a swarm is destroyed outright, it can disengage and return at full strength after a number of rounds equal to its single highest wound penalty.''
''A Note About Animae Magic''
''Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults (pages 94–95) provides guidelines for the Merinita mystery of Animae Magic, the ability to spontaneously create faeries from the raw matter surrounding the caster. Two considerations should be applied when using this magic. Firstly, faeries created through ritual magic in this way may be permanent and may have a Might Score, but they do not contain raw vis. The vis is actively sustaining the faerie from the moment it is created. Once that faerie dies, the vis finally dissipates. Secondly, the total Might Score of all faeries summoned by the spell must be added to the level when the spell is invented. So a spell to create a single faerie with a Might Score of 5 must add 5 to the spell level. A spell to create a group of 10 similar faeries must add 50 to the spell level.''

|]
''from an egotistical noble with delusions of grandeur. Avedutus is characteristically unwilling to discuss anything pertaining to the court or their presence, but it is clear that he views Giuliano as an arrogant brat. He is not rude but he defers to Lucia on any matters pertaining to Federico. Other than that, if he is engaged in harmless conversation he is relaxed.''
''Influencing the Election''
''The storyguide should assume that Federico’s faction controls ten of the votes to Giuliano’s two. This means that they need to influence four votes in order to force an even split, which places the deciding vote in the hands of Hieronymous. Taking five votes away from Federico secures the election for Giuliano. Unless the magi have already met the electors and discussed their positions, they do not know how many votes are actually controlled by each faction. Known supporters of Federico may be identified as follows, which starts to reveal the weight of support he has gained.''

===Communication + Intrigue + Stress Die===

''Roll Assessment Botch Giuliano already has enough support despite Federico’s efforts 0–2 Identify two known Federico  supporters 3–5 Identify four known Federico  supporters 6–8 Identify six known Federico  supporters 9–10 Identify eight known Federico  supporters 11+ Identify Giuliano’s supporters''
''In order to secure Giuliano’s election the magi must influence five votes. The magi could achieve this a number of ways:''

[|

==Al-Aqrab==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 95 (65) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 5 (10) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Mercurian Magic, Entrancement*; Affinity with Vim*, Enduring Constitution, Mastered Spells, Piercing Gaze, Puissant Entrancement, Tough; Outsider; Blatant Gift*, Envious; Cabal Legacy, Disfigured * Free Virtues and Flaws due to his Ex Miscellanea tradition Personality Traits: Envious +3, Self-Interest +2, Taciturn +1 Reputations: Outsider 3 (among Christians), An unpleasant and suspect magus 2 (The Roman Tribunal) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +2, Damage N/A Dagger: Init +0, Attack +6, Defense +3, Damage +2 Soak: +4 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Arabic 5 (storytelling), Area Lore: Roman Tribunal 2 (covenants), Artes Liberales 3 (Ritual magic), Brawl 2 (Dagger), Carouse 2 (games of chance), Code of Hermes 2 (tribunal procedures), Concentration 4 (spell concentration), Entrancement 4 + 2 (dangerous commands), Finesse 3 (precision), Italian 3 (storytelling), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 3 (magi), Magic Lore 2 (creatures), Magic Theory 6 (Vim), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (politics), Parma Magica 5 (Vim), Penetration 5 (Vim), Philosophiae 3 (Ritual magic), Stealth 3 (sneak), Survival 2 (deserts), Teaching 3 (spells) Arts: Cr 6, In 7, Mu 16, Pe 16, Re 14, An 6, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 10, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 11, Te 15, Vi 19 Twilight Scars: His teeth have turned into small pointed scorpion stingers, the''
''sands of his desert home are constantly shed from his clothes before disappearing upon the wind, and he does not always enjoy normal food, preferring instead to eat insects and other small vermin. Equipment: His talisman dagger, Humat. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (PeMe 30/+30), Mastery 1 (penetration) Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe 20/+28), Mastery 1 (penetration) Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ReMe 40/+36), Mastery 1 (penetration) The Riches of Carthage (CrTe 20/+32), Mastery 1 (disguised casting) Conjuring the Mystic Tower (CrTe 35/+31) The Fate of Carthage (PeTe 45/+44), Mastery 3 (disguised casting, penetration, stalwart casting) The Enigma’s Gift (CrVi 30/+27), Mastery 1 (penetration) Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 45/+37), Mastery 1 (stalwart casting) Breaking the Shield (PeVi 35/+47), Mastery 2 (disguised casting, penetration) Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 30/+44), Mastery 1 (stalwart casting) Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 30/+35), Mastery 1 (penetration) Casting Sigil: His targets are slightly seared by magical venom. It has no lasting effect, but its acrid scent can be detected upon spell residues. Appearance: Al-’Aqrab is aged and weatherbeaten and his dark skin is lined and thin. His head and face are swathed in a ragged turban and veil, a motif that extends to the rest of his clothes. He wears a sash of red tied around his middle in place of a belt, the mark of the Trattato.''
''Though not a member of a true Mercurian cult, Al-’Aqrab possesses the Mercurian Magic Virtue; an unusual trait found in the lineage of wizards of which he is the last. Its effects ensure that he is a focus for ritual magic within the Trattato. He also masters many of his spells with the disguised casting (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 99) spell mastery, which makes identifying him as the caster much harder.''

==Al-’Aqrab’s Talisman and Grimoire==

''Al-’Aqrab’s talisman is his knife, which he stole from the tomb of a Persian merchant who reputedly poisoned his rivals. He gave the weapon the name Humat, or venom.''
''The Riches of Carthage''
''CrTe 20 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual, Ritual As the Touch of Midas ritual (ArM5, page 153) but creates a lump of silver instead of gold, which is easier to slip into the local economy. (Base 15, +1 Touch, ritual)''
''The Fate of Carthage''
''PeTe 45 R: Arcane Connection, D: Momentary, T: Boundary, Ritual Over the course of a season, any crops or livestock farmed on the affected land suffer as though being starved. Deprivation checks at three-day intervals may be unwieldy for use across the season, so it is reasonable to assume that harvests fail and livestock dies unless food is brought in from outside the affected area. As a rule of thumb, assume that the income from the affected land halves each season, with the''
''effect being noticed after the first week. The effect is permanent and the soil cannot support life until healed in some way. The base level of 5 is used as the spell is destroying only a single aspect of the soil, namely the ability to nourish crops and animals. The high vis cost of this ritual is compensated by the ability to strike unseen from afar. (Base 5, +4 Arcane Connection, +4 Boundary, Ritual)''
''Humat''
''This old curved dagger has been opened with 10 pawns of vis and has the following effect:''
''Humat’s Gift CrAq 50 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual Pen +0, 1/day Once per day, Humat can be made to give up its venom, at which point a single dose of lethal poison drips from the blade’s tip. The venom has an Ease Factor of 9, as explained in ArM5, page 180. Failing the associated Stamina check results in death. This effect has no Penetration, so the poison cannot affect those protected by any level of Magic Resistance from any realm or source.''
''When Al-’Aqrab enchanted this effect he attuned Humat with a +3 bonus to poisoning. (Base 25, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 for potency)''
''Breaking the Shield''
''PeVi 25 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Individual This spell is designed to permanently cancel an existing Aegis of the Hearth ritual with a level less than 30 (i.e. the level of this spell +1 magnitude) + a Stress Die, bringing its magical protection to an abrupt end. As this spell is cast against an Aegis, the effect must first penetrate the level of that Aegis. This version of the spell has been designed to tear down at least a sixth magnitude Aegis, and so must penetrate a resistance of at least 30. To help with this feat, Al-’Aqrab has taught versions of the Wizards Communion spell to the other magi in his new covenant, which helps them to cast their spells and Rituals at sufficiently high level and penetration. Casting this spell requires that Al’Aqrab be within sight of the target’s boundary, though of course the Aegis itself does not need to be made visible. (Base effect, +3 Sight)''

==The Manner of the Election==

''A local candlemaker provides a number of identical balls of wax, one for each of the eligible courtiers. Twelve of these balls contain a piece of parchment onto which is written the word “elector.” Hieronymous draws these balls of wax from a large velvet bag, presenting them to each of the courtiers in turn. When they have all been given, the balls are broken open and the twelve courtiers finding the parchment are the nominated electors. You can consider this to have been done during the previous week and the electors chosen unless the players want to somehow influence this aspect of the process. Of course, Lucia has already subtly influenced the election process. She has passed the date and location of birth of the major members of the court to Hieronymous. With this information, Hieronymous has cast their nativity horoscopes and determined which of them naturally lean towards his patron Federico. By targeting those who support Giuliano, he has been able to produce false charts showing a calamity befalling them or their families should Giuliano succeed his uncle. These charts, obviously fake on a Simple Intelligence + Artes Liberales roll against Ease Factor 9, can be found in Hieronymous’ laboratory should the players decide to look.''
''The Electors''
''This insert lists the twelve courtiers selected to elect the new Duke. To keep track of the interactions between these twelve and the player characters, storyguides may want to prepare a set of cards representing the electors for use by the players. When interacting with these characters, roleplaying should be used to discover their motives. Use of the Intrigue ability is appropriate when talking about them with others. Assume an Ease Factor of 9 to discover the elector’s basic situation. Working with or through Giuliano grants a +3 bonus to these rolls.''
''• Donato Damiani is a minor prince of Padua with little wealth of his own, which he supplements through access to Federico’s coffers. Unbothered by morals, he supports Federico from the fear that his funds may dry up under another regime. He has little interest in any subject, but can always recall an anecdote about something, somewhere, or someone. His vote can be bought through promises of financial security. • Berto Bossi is a wealthy and influential guild leader. Promised more control over taxes that favor Casalmaggiore merchants and discriminate against those from other cities and regions, he is a firm supporter of Federico. • The mercenary lord Pietro Trevison has a grudge against Verona over monies he believes he is owed. He has a little land, but he is anticipating Federico’s ambitions in the area and believes he could become a wealthy man through supporting him. • Piero Giudetti, a rumbustious local landowner, supports Federico out of principle; when the old Duke was ill, Federico remained in Casalmaggiore while Giuliano wasted his time abroad. • Gullible, brow-beaten, and politically naive, Cola Polani votes the same way as his overbearing neighbor Piero Giudetti and is happy to defer to his reasoning. But if he could be granted courage, suggestions that Hieronymous has been meddling in the election could shift his vote. • Allesandro dalle Boccole is tantalized by the prospect of his daughter marrying into money. Hieronymous has promised him that should Federico be elected he will marry within a month. And he has cast the young woman’s horoscope, which shows that she is destined for greatness. He has not heard rumors linking Federico with Lucia. • The weasel-faced merchant Maffeo Marano has much to hide. He is a crook and a swindler, which Hi''
''eronymous has discovered thanks to Lucia’s magic. He has been promised amnesty and pardon for his activities under Federico, but exposure and punishment under Giuliano. • The Lady Rosanella di Campo speaks on behalf of her ailing husband, who Hieronymous has assured her will survive into old age should the will of the stars be done and Federico made Duke. She had no opinion before, and while she objects to the imposition she dare not cross the fates. • Simonetto Domenico is a poor knight with a small fief who has fought alongside Giuliano and should, by all rights favor him. But Hieronymous has warned him of the increasing poverty foretold in the stars should Giuliano gain power. • Genuinely undecided, the youthful Lorenzo Di Pigli has recently lost his father and inherited his lands. He is astute enough to recognize that Federico is apparently more popular, but he can be persuaded to either side. He is determined to back the winning side. • Leonardo Cobiancho is an elderly distant uncle, a successful soldier in his day who doesn’t hold with astrology. He is quite vocal about his disdain for magi supporting any faction. Favoring Giuliano, he can see the trouble that Federico might bring to Casalmaggiore. Suggestions that Giuliano is underhanded and treacherous  shift his vote. • Monsignor d’Este is the Bishop of Casalmaggiore and dislikes Federico. If you are using the Realms of Power: The Divine supplement, rules for Holy Influence are on page 38. Assume that Monsignor d’Este has a Presence of 2 and a Leadership of 4 for the purposes of these rules. He is surrounded by his own entourage and does not take kindly to strangers approaching him directly. Questions as to Giuliano’s morals lessen the Bishop’s support.''

|]
''• Use Mentem magic on Federico’s supporters • Control or replace Hieronymous • Expose Hieronymous’ false horoscopes • Discredit Federico directly''
''Exposing Hieronymous’ deceit may influence enough votes, but the magi are free to take their own path and the storyguide should apply the results of their actions as a gain in votes. The electors described in the nearby''
''insert should be used by the storyguide to portray the election. They present roleplaying opportunities for the magi to use intrigue and persuasion or direct application of magic to discover their reasons for supporting Federico and to provide counter offers.''
''Accusations and Successions''
''If Federico loses, fairly or unfairly, he immediately rounds upon Lucia''
''and Hieronymous claiming treachery while Hieronymous points the finger of suspicion at Giuliano’s lackeys. At this, Lucia immediate casts her Defend Me spell to ensure that she is protected from harm. If Giuliano loses, he naturally blames his own magi and decries them as in league with his brother. In either case, the victorious twin makes a show of magnanimity while the other storms out of the city promising a reckoning to come. If Giuliano wins, Lucia must act fast and ensnare him. She uses all the spells at her disposal to convince Giuliano that he can take the greatest prize on offer, namely her. Once the recriminations are done and the victor is left with the spoils, the plans for the ceremony and church blessing are finalized, to be completed the next day. Depending on who wins, the player magi may be invited or not, though the gracious host invites them to stay out the evening in the palace.''
''Potential Outcomes''
''There are at least two possible outcomes to this part of the scenario. The first is that Federico Estensi, Lucia’s favored successor, succeeds to his uncle’s lands. The second is that Giuliano proves his brother’s duplicity and takes the title instead. While Giuliano himself is indebted to the player magi, Lucia switches her target, continues to work on Giuliano, and ultimately gains her mundane forces. But, crucially, her magic dulls Giuliano’s leadership. He does not command the respect or loyalty that he might have done and the mundane forces the player magi face in the third act are much smaller than they otherwise might have been. In any case, the losing brother returns in Act Three. Of course, if the player magi determine a third outcome, which manages to exclude Lucia altogether, then act three takes a very different shape.''

[|

==Federico and Giuliano Estensi==

''The same statistics can be used for both brothers.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 28 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) (Federico has a Warping Score of 0 (2), due to the effects of Lucia’s A Night’s Passion spell) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Landed Noble, Knight, Educated, Famous; Ambitious, Oath of Fealty Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Envious of his Twin +2, Humble –1 Reputations: Prudhomme (Lombard nobility) 4 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack N/A, Defense +4, Damage N/A Fist: Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +1 Dagger: Init –1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +4 Long Sword & Heater Shield: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +10, Damage +7 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10),''
''–5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (falconry), Area Lore: Casalmaggiore 4 (politics), Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 1 (in battle), Brawl 3 (Dagger), Carouse 3 (courtly dances), Etiquette 3 (court), Hunt 3 (stag), Intrigue 3 (plotting), Italian 5 (Casalmaggiore), Latin 3 (academic usage), Leadership 4 (armies), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (personalities), Philosophiae 1 (moral philosophy), Ride 4 (battle), Single Weapon 4 (long sword) Equipment: Sword, shield, full chain armor, entourage Encumbrance: 3 (4) Appearance: Both brothers are handsome, with fair hair and blue eyes, and statuesque through years of military practice.''
''The twins share more than just their looks; brought up together, favor shown to neither, educated by the finest tutors, and both granted substantial estates, which they hold from their uncle. But somehow a great burning envy of the other twin burns within each of them. There is no accounting for it, and seemingly no settling it.''

|]

==Tales of Power Investigating Trattato==

''Ritual magic has been used to raise a tower within the Casalmaggiore estate, next to the original lodge used by the Trattato, and it has been outfitted with two standard laboratories. A wall has been built encircling the lodge and the tower out to the size of a standard Hermetic Boundary. The site is defended with a level 30 Aegis of the Hearth, which has been cast through a Wizards Communion and has a Penetration of 45. The site has not yet acquired a Magical aura and has no realm alignment. The wooded area beyond the lodge is also defended by a swarm of small faeries, summoned by Patronus through ritual magic, who harry any who approach the tower while not wearing a red sash tied around their middle. The tower has three rooms of interest. The first is the library, sparsely populated with no dedicated librarian. It seems little more than somewhere to store vis, books, devices, and other materials. After the sacking of Selvaggio in act two, this room is filled with the spoils of war. The second is the council chamber, which is dominated by a large mosaic map of the Tribunal inlaid into the floor. The position of every known covenant and independent magus is marked upon the map and the walls play host to smaller maps of discrete regions. The final room is a dedicated ceremonial magic space (as described in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 59). Dominated by a large marble altar within concentric circles of silver inlaid into the marble floor, the props within this room provide a bonus of +5 to ceremonial spell-casting. This dedicate space reduces the time it takes to cast ceremonial magic to one minute per magnitude. Access to the council chamber reveals two targets, Castello del Selvaggio and the players’ own covenant. The evidence comes in the form of crude maps of the covenant areas and even intelligence as to the regular movements of magi and their staff.''
''The tower is attended by a dozen or so servants and has a permanent guard of 12 soldiers. When at the tower, the magi normally eat, sleep, and conduct business in the adjoining houses, which are also within the bounds of the Aegis. While not on operations, Avedutus, Patronus, and Al-’Aqrab are likely to be found at the covenant buildings. Lucia is more likely to be found with the Casalmaggiore nobility.''
''What the Order Knows''
''Characters may already know a little about the magi of the Trattato. They may make Intelligence + Order of Hermes Lore simple rolls to gain the following information. Any character who studies Order of of Hermes Lore for a season to learn what she can gains all of the information here in addition to the usual experience points.''
''Roll Result 3+ Lucia and Avedutus are known to be native to the Roman Tribunal  All of the Trattato magi are over fifty years of age 6+ Avedutus is known to operate as a champion in the Normandy Tribunal and has taken part in a number of the grand Hermetic tournaments held there  Al-’Aqrab is an Ex Miscellanea from North Africa  Avedutus has an apprentice, now living outside the Tribunal 9+ Lucia has been linked with a number of covenants in the past, both in Rome and elsewhere, and has left a trail of bitterness and resentment behind her  Mutationis had formerly been resident at a Provencal covenant where two of its magi died through Wizard War  Lucia and her parens are now on poor terms and they have not spoken in some time''
''12+ Mutationis Patronus has been heavily touched by the fae and some suspect that he is slowly turning from the mortal path  Al-’Aqrab the scorpion is a master of ritual magic  Al-’Aqrab had charges of depriving a magus of his magical power raised against him, but no case was brought as his accuser died in Wizard War a season before the Tribunal. The victor? Al-’Aqrab.''
''Quaesitors and Tribunals''
''Some magi are likely at this point to want to involve the Quaesitores and see a case brought to Tribunal. These magi are perfectly within their rights and there is a case of mundane interference at least to investigate if not prosecuted. But so far, Lucia and the Trattato can easily claim to simply be protecting their investment. Federico is to all intents and purposes a companion to Lucia’s covenant and important to''
''its survival. In all likelihood, the case would be referred to Tribunal where the actions and impact of Lucia’s interference can be debated. Taken on its own, the probable outcome is either acceptance by the Tribunal that Lucia’s actions were justified or had no material effect, or the imposition of a fine or equivalent punishment. However, Lucia is careful to start her plan soon after a Tribunal meeting, extending the period she can operate before charges become an issue. She believes that by then, she’ll either be dead or wield enough political power to make the problems go away.''

==Act Two: The Darkening Sky==

''Lucia and Avedutus need time to consolidate their hold on Casalmaggiore, so the events of this act take place a few seasons after the succession. Now in Lucia’s grip, the mundane forces of Casalmaggiore have assisted Avedutus in taking a nearby covenant, and they now prepare to march against Verona.''

==Improving Fortunes==

''Given the gap between the first act and the second, it is likely that the player magi have spent some time investigating their new opponents. Assuming that the player magi and their agents keep themselves informed as to Casalmaggiore’s fortunes they learn the following:''
''Sudden Wealth''
''After the election of the new duke, the fortunes of Casalmaggiore seem to have improved. Some put it down to''

[|

==Hieronymous the Astrologer==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre –1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 60 (60) Decrepitude: 1 (aging points applied to characteristics) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Clerk; Arcane Lore, Cautious with Artes Liberales, Temporal Influence, Protection (Duke); Ambitious, Ability Block (Martial), Incomprehensible Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Cowardly +1, Loyal –2 Reputations: Scholar (court of Casalmaggiore) 3 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack N/A, Defense –1, Damage N/A Fist: Init –1, Attack –1, Defense –1, Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Casalmaggiore 3 (politics), Artes Liberales 6 (astronomy), Awareness 3 (listening), Carouse 3 (staying sober), Charm 1 (courtly love), Civil and Canon Law 4 (laws and customs of Casalmaggiore), Concentration 4 (reading), Dominion Lore 2 (saints), Etiquette''
''4 (nobility), Faerie Lore 1 (faeries of the night), Folk Ken 5 (nobles), Guile 5 (false horoscopes), Infernal Lore 2 (curses), Intrigue 5 (plotting), Italian 5 (Casalmaggiore), Latin 5 (academic usage), Leadership 3 (mercenaries), Legerdemain 5 (“magic” tricks), Magic Lore 3 (creatures), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (personalities), Philosophiae 4 (natural philosophy), Teaching 3 (Artes Liberales), Theology 2 (biblical knowledge) Equipment: Astrolabe, charts, books, and amulets Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Erect and robed in sumptuous dark velvet, Hieronymous observes the world from a head constant thrown back either in disdain or some feigned exaltation as he supposedly connects to the power of the stars. He lost his hair long ago, so he keeps his head covered with a cap and cowl, and his pointed gray-white beard is colored dark with herbal compounds.''
''Hieronymous is an influential coward. He is influential as he has enjoyed the ear of successive masters in his time, which has lent him a degree of protection and status, and a coward through the knowledge of how precarious his situation is should he fall from the favor of the next duke.''

|]
''increased trading activity in the city brought on by lower taxes. But the truth is that the Trattato has created a large quantity of silver. This apparent wealth has boosted the region and given it a degree of confidence.''
''Preparations for War''
''While some of this new money is being directed to civic works, the majority has been promised to mercenaries and prospective allies. With wealth comes military power and the Duca di Casalmaggiore is accruing both in equal measure. This growing influence is more subtle and represented through rumored meetings and treaties between the Duke and other local nobles. This preparation is clearly apparent in the tournaments held across the region and the Duke shows off his military prowess by fielding large teams of well armed and armored men. Encounters with these men would make fitting tournament-based interludes for companion characters.''
''Magicians at Court''
''Hieronymous still retains his position, as do Lucia and her champion. Many suspect these three to be tainted with magic. In the case of Lucia and Avedutus they would be right, but Lucia has been careful to obtain a written agreement with the new Duke that limits the involvement of the magi at court to that of simple tenants paying scutage in lieu of military service.''
''Trade Disputes''
''Importantly, a trade dispute between Verona and Casalmaggiore has been manufactured and there have been skirmishes between troops in the employ of both sides. This is the backdrop against which this act is played.''

==The Fallen Covenant==

''The first confirmed military action undertaken by the Duke and his allies is the sacking of a small castle to the west of Verona. But that castle turns out to be a Hermetic covenant and the sacking was achieved through magic. Castello del Selvaggio is a forgotten remnant of a failed covenant that fell under pressure from jealous and aggressive Hermetic neighbors soon after it was founded. Situated near Verona in a small castle on the shores of Lake Garda, the young magi of Castello del Selvaggio became involved in plots both Hermetic and mundane, including one disastrous encounter in which a magus from another covenant was accidentally killed. The resulting pressure was intolerable and the Selvaggio magi disbanded, each going his own way. The only magus to remain was the resolute Tytalus magus Maximus Se''
''veris. He subtly extended his influence back into Verona, under the guise of the heir to the Selvaggio family fortune, using the city to protect the resources he had left. In time, he clawed back a number of minor vis sources and, careful to work through proxies, used his power to support Verona in her ventures, receiving favors in kind. As Maximus’ filia, Lucia grew up in Verona and Castello del Selvaggio at a time when Maximus had grown old and weakening. Her knowledge of Selvaggio’s resources and her impatience at the continued survival of her parens undoubtedly contribute to her current ambitions.''
''Refugees''
''The guards watching over the player covenant gates encounter a band of some twenty people carrying hastily clutched possessions and heading to the covenant. These are some of the former covenfolk''

[|

==Vis Sources and other Resources==

''Castello del Selvaggio is situated within a level 2 Magical aura fed by a magical spring that runs from the hillside above it, and has the right to a number of resources in the local area. As these are potentially available for your troupe to claim during the course of this story you should design them according to your game’s desired power level. The suggestions can be altered to fit. The Covenants supplement also provides ideas for vis sources and the Aquam vis source The Purest Stream  is particularly fitting.''
''• A small garden within a lacuna, a pocket of Magical aura, in the city of Verona. The white roses that grow there, if tended well, yield two pawns of Vim vis each year. • Once a year a distant scream can be heard coming from the mountains north of Selvaggio, as though a life has been suddenly brought to''
''an end. If the scream can be captured it distills into three pawns of Mentem vis. • The lake contains a gateway to a faerie court. Maximus held the faerie queen’s favor, allowing him free access to the court. With Maximus gone, the queen’s favor must be contested again. Whoever wins it has a seat at the faerie queen’s court. • Maximus had little use for libraries or devices in his later years. Most of the books that remain have deteriorated a little, but the storyguide may take the opportunity to introduce books and devices that the player covenant might lack.''
''Matias can act as a source of information on all things Selvaggio, including the strength of the Selvaggio Aegis, which should be the same as that employed by the player covenant.''

|]
''of Castello del Selvaggio who escaped before the defenses and Maximus fell. The band is headed by Matias the librarian, and consists mainly of women, children, and men too old to fight. They have been walking for days and are hungry, exhausted, and frightened. Trying to maintain dignity despite his condition, Matias speaks for the band and asks for sanctuary. He pleads for the protection of the Aegis and offers to throw himself upon the mercy of the magi if only they protect his charges. He does not give up his entreaty lightly and con''
''tinues pleading, if only for the sake of the children. If the refugees are still refused help he asks only that they be allowed to buy bread and water before traveling to the next covenant. If given the chance to tell his story, Matias describes the fall of Castello del Selvaggio, or at least the events that he witnessed, and his flight from the covenant. He describes how a Redcap delivered a letter on the night of the full moon; a declaration of Wizard War from three aggressors: Patronus, Al-’Aqrab, and Avedutus.''
''With little time to prepare a magical defense, and needing to protect his covenfolk, Maximus spent the next two weeks collecting vis from his sources and assembling such devices and casting tablets as he could. He called for help from his former apprentices and friends, but help never came. And then word reached Selvaggio that a small army of mercenaries, marching under the banner of Casalmaggiore, was headed towards Lake Garda. A dispute had broken out between Casalmaggiore and Verona concerning Veronese taxes imposed upon Casalmaggiore merchants, and this was apparently part of the response. Faced with a fight on two fronts, the old man chose to defend his ground, close up the castle, and take his covenfolk securely inside. The mercenaries arrived the day before the full moon and immediately set up for an assault on the small castle. The captain called for Maximus to surrender or be responsible for the coming bloodshed. The old Tytalus gave a robust response and incinerated the captain with a glance.''

[|

==Matias the Librarian==

''Characteristics: Int +2 (2), Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2 (2), Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 45 (45) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Custos (granting Academic Abilities), Clear Thinker, Puissant Librarian; Ability Block (Martial), Covenant Upbringing, Lame Personality Traits: Brave +2, Dependable +1, Humble +1 Reputations: Dependable 3 (Castello del Selvaggio) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack N/A, Defense –3, Damage N/A Fist: Init –1, Attack +1, Defense –1, Damage +0 Soak: +1''
''Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Lombardy 3 (history), Artes Liberales 4 (grammar), Charm 2 (first impressions), Civil and Canon Law 3 (laws and customs of a specific area), Concentration 3 (reading), Etiquette 3 (Hermetic), Folk Ken 3 (magi), Greek 3 (academic usage), Illumination 4 (academic), Intrigue 3 (rumormongering), Italian 5 (expansive vocabulary), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 3 (junior librarians), Organization Lore: Castello del Selvaggio 3 (resources), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (covenants), Philosophiae 3 (natural philosophy), Profession: Librar''
''ian 5+2 (ensuring order), Scribe 4 (copying) Equipment: Nothing but the clothes he stands up in Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Tired and defeated. Gray hair, lined features, and a very pronounced limp.''
''Though good with his mind and his hands, Matias is lame and has considerable difficulty in walking any distance unaided. It is a condition that Hermetic magic is apparently unable to cure. Despite his advancing years, he has so far maintained good health, but the upheaval of being forced from his home and the rigors of his recent march means that his age may start to take its toll. Add +1 to Matias’ next aging roll, should you make one.''

==The Fate of Carthage==

''When visiting Castello del Selvaggio, the covenant’s representatives pass through some ruined farmland. The villagers ask for alms from the magi and the priest can be seen blessing the ground and sprinkling holy water before an expectant congregation. The blight was caused by Al-’Aqrab but there is little or no magical residue left''
''to be detected. Those enquiring after the blight, as the surrounding lands are healthy and green, discover that the lands started dying two seasons before Castello del Selvaggio fell. This is an important point for the players to hear as it is likely that the same fate befalls their covenant, giving them a final two seasons to plan their defenses.''

|]
''But a moment later, as the sun finally set, the Aegis suddenly dropped. A crossbowman loosed a bolt at the wall, and the wall shattered in an instant, almost dragging Maximus down with it. With the wall breached, an unstoppable knight led a mundane force into the castle and killed all who stood in his way. Maximus’ last act — having fled the mundane assault — was to magically raise a bridge that spanned the lake, allowing Matias and some of the other covenfolk to escape. The effort taxed him greatly, and Matias never saw him again.''
''To the Victor the Spoils''
''By the time the refugees reach the player covenant Avedutus has returned to Casalmaggiore and left Selvaggio in the care of Patronus and Al-’Aqrab. If and when the magi visit Castello del Selvaggio they find a small army of the duke’s men camped in and around the covenant and taking advantage of the local resources. The castle walls are adorned with the bodies of its defenders, strung up on gibbets as a sign of Avedutus’ victory. The most glaring feature is the collapsed section of the outer wall, which is easily large enough for an attacking army to pass through. This detail may be important to magi looking to defend their covenant against Avedutus’ assault. Any seeking access to Castello del Selvaggio are turned away in no uncertain terms by the occupying Casalmaggiore force, though this is arguably just a slight inconvenience to magi prepared to use magic against those who might bar their way. Should the player magi gain access to the castle, both of the Trattato magi, Patronus and Al-’Aqrab, can be found within the main hall of the castle discussing its ongoing defense with captains of their military force and the rebuilding of the walls with loyal engineers.''
''Confrontation''
''When confronted about Maximus, the Trattato magi claim right of conquest arising from Wizard War. If pushed on his fate, they offer to call him down from the council chamber and a few moments later Maximus’ slain body is brought in, seated in an elaborate chair. The childlike Patronus, talking through his talisman mask, acts mockingly towards the corpse and invites the visitors to ask it what they will. He even pretends to summon Maximus’ spirit into his mask, allowing the visitors to interrogate the faerie within. There is no spirit to question however, as Al-’Aqrab has already summoned and destroyed Maximus’ ghost. If challenged over the mundane forces used in the attack, Patronus refers to them as grogs and wonders whether the visitors are just envious of the size of their turb. Both magi deny any suggestion that they staged a magical as''
''sault with Maximus outside the terms of Wizard War and challenge the visitors to prove it. Al-’Aqrab is more forthcoming about what the Trattato hope to gain if asked directly. They want power, respect, and influence. He claims not to see a need for further violence if the Tribunal accepts this “transaction” and treats the Trattato with the deference it has earned. Folk Ken reveals his particular zeal for this, suggesting that his need for respect and power is greater even that the Trattato’s. Neither Al-’Aqrab nor Patronus accept certamen, seemingly uncaring at the potential loss of face and remind the visiting magi that they have the duke’s men in residence, should they wish for any unpleasantness. Any confrontation with Patronus and Al-’Aqrab includes Al-’Aqrab calling for guards. You can assume 15 standard soldiers (as per ArM5, page 22) armed with crossbows (add the following line to the standard soldier statistics):''
''Crossbow: Init +7, Atk +11, Def +6, Dam +8''
''Treat them as three untrained groups for the purposes of any combat that occurs here. These guards menace the magi, taking up positions behind them. Neither the Trattato magi nor their guards initiate any violence, but once Patronus and Al-’Aqrab are done, they order the player magi to be removed. One of the combat groups attempts to manhandle the player magi from the hall and escort them from the covenant. Given that it takes three rounds for the archers to reload, two of these groups switch to their standard weapons if they have cause to shoot their bows. Should the meeting take a violent turn, Patronus uses his array of spells to create various faerie defenders to bolster the mundane guards. Al-’Aqrab quietly and swiftly leaves the scene, quickly trying to entrance any assailants who follow him.''
''Signs of Weakness''
''The Trattato may have made a mistake in letting Patronus and Al-’Aqrab secure Castello del Selvaggio, as they are the most likely to betray those they swore oaths with. Coming to an accommodation with these two magi is one option that has a direct influence on how events play out later. For instance, if Al-’Aqrab can be persuaded to abandon the Trattato then they lose the capability to bring down the Aegis of the Hearth. So what do these two magi want? In the first instance, they now have a covenant site. It has a Magical aura and access to vis sources and, crucially for Patronus, access to a strong Faerie regio. This is probably sufficient for Al-’Aqrab. If he can be guaranteed the security of this one gain, then his selfish nature takes over and he abandons Lucia’s grand project. Patronus won’t leave just on a selfish whim; he’ll need something more. Those with Faerie Lore or House Merinita Lore''
''may recognize Patronus’ transformation, and he may be persuaded by offers to help with the final stage. But neither can be turned if approached together. Such attempts can only be successful if the Trattato magi are approached individually, where their selfish aims have chance to express themselves.''
''The Duke’s Army''
''The visiting magi may have to content themselves with leaving apparently empty-handed. But if they think to infiltrate the duke’s garrison, they learn how Avedutus casts his spells (a description of the anvil within the strange wagon), which could be exploited in the coming conflict. This also confirms that Avedutus was part of the assault, the means by which the wall was breached, and that it was Avedutus who hunted and killed the exhausted Maximus. They also learn that while Verona is the duke’s next tar''

[|

==Councilor Migliore Bevilacqua==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 43 (43) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Merchant; Wealthy, Educated, Temporal Influence; Enemies (Verona Politicians), Noncombatant, Weak Characteristics Personality Traits: Diplomatic +3, Honest +2, Political +2 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack N/A, Defense +0, Damage N/A Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +0 Soak: 0 Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Animal Handling 1 (horses),''
''Area Lore: Verona 5 (politics), Artes Liberales 4 (rhetoric), Awareness 2 (alertness), Bargain 3 (city matters), Carouse 3 (staying sober), Civil and Canon Law 4 (Veronese law), Concentration 3 (council meetings), Etiquette 4 (nobility), Folk Ken 4 (townsfolk), Guile 4 (lying to the populace), Hunt 2 (with hounds), Intrigue 5 (alliances), Italian 5 (poetry), Latin 3 (legislation), Leadership 4 (inspiration), Music 1 (compose), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (magi within Verona), Organisation Lore: Verona Council 5 (personalities), Profession: Councillor 5 (Veronese matters), Profession: Merchant 4 (timber), Ride 3 (distance) Equipment: A retinue of notaries and advisors Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Migliore is an impeccably dressed man, unafraid to dis''
''play his wealth where others may see it. His fingers are adorned with rings of gold and gemstones and his clothes bear embroidery of gold and silver thread. He looks well for his 43 years, and his hair is still thick and lustrous, though graying at the temples. But take away the pomp and splendor and he becomes quite unassuming.''
''Migliore Bevilacqua is a timber merchant by trade, but he found some time ago that the best way to support his business was to enter politics and ensure that his family were best placed to receive substantial orders. He has a love of his city and trusts the strength of its walls and its citizens, but he recognizes that Verona has enemies in Lombardy and beyond. And he knows that Verona cannot afford to be held hostage by the smaller dukedom of Casalmaggiore.''

|]
''get, there is apparently another smaller target to be taken in the coming action, which has been decided upon by the duke’s consort. None present know the location of this secondary target. They do know that the campaign is to start next spring, once the gains around Selvaggio have been secured. This should give the player magi time to undertake laboratory work.''

==The City in Need==

''With the army of Casalmaggiore swelling in numbers, the Veronese city council reaches out to the player covenant offering money and charters in exchange for magical aid against the inevitable attack. If the player covenant hasn’t seen the danger, then at least the city has. This is the crucial event that determines whether the covenant or the city is the object of the siege. By this stage, the magi of the covenant understand that the city is a secondary objective for the magi of Trattato and that the mundane forces could be drawn away from the city by holding out in the covenant.''
''Offers of Friendship''
''Assuming that the losing twin from the first act survived beyond that part of the story, he has found himself in opposition to his brother and is lending his influence to Verona. It is this exile who brings Verona’s offer to the covenant. He arrives with a high-ranking Veronese councilor, Migliore Bevilacqua, and flanked by 30 mounted soldiers and council advisors as an overt show of force. Neither Estensi nor Bevilacqua make any demands, but they do offer the friendship of Verona if the magi would reciprocate. If given the opportunity to speak frankly with the magi, they admit that Verona is concerned that the duke’s magical allies would''
''make a mockery of the city walls and that his army could walk in with impunity. They recognize that they need advice and resources with which to counter a magical assault. This may be the prompt that the player magi need to realize that the potential threat against their own covenant comes from a combined magical and mundane assault. And unless they have already started looking at how they might defend against such an attack, they probably start doing so now. This meeting should also emphasize the two likely avenues of assault: pitched battle or siege. The player magi may choose to address one or both of these, and Federico/Giuliano Estensi can act as a military advisor if required.''
''A Political Game''
''If the magi are interested in hearing Verona out, they are invited to attend''
''the council convened in the Basilica di San Zeno Maggiore in the heart of Verona. Bevilacqua champions drafting a treaty with the magi, preferring to call them “philosophers.” But a rival to Bevilacqua (possibly even Ezzalino di Romano, described nearby) addresses the magi directly and cajoles them into admitting their true nature. This councilor, for purely political reasons and a desire to attack Bevilacqua, challenges the magi to prove that they can be trusted and are not in league with the duke. The Gift means that the other councilors immediately find this accusation plausible. If the player magi, or their representatives address the councilor’s baiting well, the council turns in their favor. Remember to apply The Gift’s social penalty to any interpersonal rolls made by the magi, and to apply the level 5 Dominion to any spellcasting within the basilica. Working with a city, or any mundane noble or organization, is not for''
''bidden by the Hermetic Code. The key provision of the Hermetic Oath, and most often used in Tribunal cases, is that the magus should bring no ruin upon his sodales through his interaction with mundanes. The Peripheral Code does, however, forbid magi from working directly for a noble (and by extension any''
''mundane entity) in the manner of a court wizard. This is circumvented through the use of proxies and go-betweens. If the magi and the city of Verona can come to an understanding, then the player covenant can call upon a small garrison of Veronese infantry and archers, placed under their direct control in the coming''
''conflict. But the city understands that this is to protect the magi in the event of any assault and ensure that they are able to safely retreat to Verona.''

==Act Three: Storm Front==

''The final act is triggered when the Trattato extend an offer of friendship which, if rejected, is followed by a ritual to spoil farming lands serving the player covenant, declarations of Wizard War from Avedutus, Patronus, and Al-’Aqrab, and finally a direct attack. With these events, the four antagonists are committed and the duke’s army marches upon Verona, while a smaller force of mercenaries under Avedutus’ command attacks the player covenant. It is during this part of the story that the protagonists’ earlier actions pay dividends. If they succeeded in helping Giuliano attain his crown, then the army besieging Verona can more easily be turned back. If the events described earlier have played out as described, then Lucia is in effective command of the duke’s army, with Avedutus its commander on the ground. The conflict with Verona has been manipulated to the point of war, and Lucia and her companions are on the verge of taking their second covenant. But if the player magi managed to install Giuliano as the duke, then the armies that assault their covenant and Verona are smaller and weaker, as described later. The siege of Verona and the assault on the player covenant play out on different timescales, the siege potentially over the course of seasons while the assault in a matter of hours or days at most. The players have the choice of which to defend and which to leave to''

[|

==Verona’s Government==

''The cities of northern Italy are generally organized as communes independent of direct royal rule. In place of a royal court, the city is governed by a council led by a podesta, a kind of elected mayor. Around 1220, the unscrupulous Ezzalino III di Romano is influential, becoming podesta 1226 and then seizing direct control of the city from 1236. He is a powerful man and much hated by his enemies. He is ruthless and potentially infernally corrupt. This at''
''least gives the nobles of the region reason to support the Duca di Casalmaggiore in the struggle against their more powerful neighbor. If you use Verona as the backdrop to this scenario you should bear in mind its shifting political situation. From 1226, it is Ezzalino di Romano and not Migliore Bevilacqua who approaches the covenant and he is inclined to be more persuasive in his arguments to ensure that he has his own magical support in the coming conflict.''

==The Offer Described in Game Terms==

''If the magi take up Verona’s offer, they gain the following covenant Hooks and Boons: Secondary Income, Minor Resources Boon Powerful Ally, Major External Relations Boon Mundane Politics, Major External Relations Hook''
''These Hooks and Boons are described in Covenants, Chapter Two. The covenant is also granted leave to search for magical places within the city, to which they may then lay claim. If the covenant still houses Matias, he is able to direct the magi to at least one lacuna, large enough for two laboratories.''

==The Basilica di San Zeno==

''Damaged in an earthquake nearly a century ago, the basilica is still being rebuilt in 1220. If history takes its course, it will not be finished until late into the 14th century. Architecturally impressive, its entrance consists of two large bronze doors flanked by marble lions. The site is dominated by the tall bell tower, which forms part of the adjoining abbey. The basilica is the burial place of Saint Zeno, a fourth-century bishop of''
''Verona to whom a number of miracles are attributed.  One miracle said to show his intercession occurred when the Adige broke its banks and threatened to flood Verona. But the waters could not enter the church dedicated to Zeno, no matter that the doors were wide open. The basilica has a Dominion of 5, and provides a bonus of +1 when attempting to invoke Saint Zeno’s aid, who as a local saint has a Divine Might of 25.''

|]
''its fate but the sections here are presented from the perspective of troupe characters being present at both.''

==An Alliance Is Offered==

''Emboldened by the success of the action against Castello del Selvaggio, Lucia sends word, via Redcap, that the Trattato are willing to extend the hand of friendship and recognize the player covenant as a chapter house of or vassal to the Trattato. All that is required is that this covenant signs a declaration placing it under the protection of Lucia of Tytalus as a recognized legal chapter house of Trattato di Sangue and that Lucia, Avedutus, Patronus, and Al-’Aqrab are added to the covenant’s list of council members, each commanding a vote. This declaration is binding and in perpetuity. As a symbol of acceptance, Lucia is willing to accept 10 pawns of vis immediately in addition to the undertaking signed by a quorate covenant council. The Redcap had no knowledge of the letter’s content if it is shown to him and seems shocked that magi of the Order would show such disrespect.''

==The Spoiled Ground==

''Two seasons before the assault on the covenant begins, Al-’Aqrab casts his Fate of Carthage ritual to ruin some key farming land owned by and near to the player covenant. This is done to tempt the player magi with immediate problems to distract the magi from their preparations. Al-’Aqrab casts this with his disguised casting mastery ability, which hides the wizard’s sigil normally detected in spell effects and residues.''

==The Siege of Verona==

''If the player magi have chosen not to engage with Verona, then the siege of the city occurs without them and might play''
''no further part in this scenario. But the duke’s army does besiege the city, using Avedutus’ enchanted bolts to breach the walls. If the magi do retreat to the city, the siege plays out as described here. On arrival outside Verona, the duke sends his herald to offer terms to the Veronese. He demands that each councillor sends his wife, sons, and daughters to his camp by way of hostages and that he be crowned duke of Verona with the Veronese nobility swearing fealty to him. The city is confident of resisting a prolonged siege and so does not accept these terms, preferring instead to see the Casalmaggiore army exhaust itself against its walls. But if the magi are within the city, they are included in the war council, and the demand for hostages presents an opportunity for subterfuge that the players may take up.''
''The City’s Defenses''
''Verona is a large walled city bisected by the Adige river, which enters the city in the north west, takes a sweeping s-shaped meander and then exits in the south east. With the Duke’s army marching out of Caslamaggiore to the south east, this is the obvious point of contact. Defending the city involves resisting bombardment by siege engine and Avedutus’ enchanted devices. The magi should have had time to determine the appropriate defenses and prepare them. Note that Verona spans the Adige river, which means that sor''
''ties and spies may find entry relatively easy. If the magi weather the initial assault, they may still need to deal with a prolonged blockade, which would mean using magic to feed a city and protect it from illness.''
''The First Engagement''
''When the Casalmaggiore army arrives, the duke concentrates his force on the southern wall and attempts an escalade to scale the walls while his trebuchet is brought within range and made ready. This takes most of the day and is clearly visible from the city walls. Once the trebuchet is ready, the duke begins both mundane and magical bombardment with an archer using Avedutus’ charged bolts to breach the wall. Each bolt that strikes the wall destroys one of that wall’s damage levels. The nature of the battle and siege rules puts the troupe players at the heart of the engagement. Where the troupe abandons the defending force to its fate, the defending city loses that discrete engagement. In this case, the city must defend against escalade and prevent the besieging enemy from scaling the walls. The players may place any combination of magi, companions, or grogs at the wall. Doing so allows them to influence the outcome. This is played as a combat encounter, with the troupe characters forming one or more combat group defending the wall against twice their number of''

[|

==The Means of Magical Warfare==

''While Lords of Men discusses mundane warfare, there is the likelihood of magical conflict taking place during this story. The Hermetic Projects supplement includes an entire chapter on the means and magic of waging Wizard War. Many of the effects and techniques detailed in that chapter may''
''be useful inspiration for use in this story, either as additional spells available to the antagonists or as spells and effects that the player magi may invent in order to defend themselves. The Magi of Hermes supplement details several magi and their own particular inventions that may provide additional inspiration.''

|]
''untrained combat groups consisting of standard soldiers (ArM5, page 22). The attacking soldiers take a round reaching the top of the wall, during which they are vulnerable to missile''
''attacks and unable to make attack rolls against the troupe characters. On reaching the top, they attempt to gain a foothold on the battlements. The troupe characters benefit from''
''the standard +3 bonus for fighting from higher ground during this round. The attackers cannot disengage from combat here and fight to the death. No side has higher-ground advantage during subsequent rounds but the top of the walls counts as hazardous terrain and adds +2 botch dice to any botches. At any time before the engagement is won, the troupe may withdraw their characters from the engagement, their retreat being covered by their allies. But this concedes the section to the enemy, giving them the foothold they need to secure the wall. If this happens, the city cannot reclaim it without help from the troupe. It is worth noting that these combat actions pose little threat to wellprepared magi, which is as it should be, but spellcasting may be hampered by the need for Concentration rolls. During battle, magi must make Concentration rolls against an Ease Factor of 9 in order to cast any spell, as described in ArM5, page 82, and they are always cast with stress dice. If the magi are not able to raise the siege during this initial engagement, either through negotiating an accord, routing the army, or breaking Lucia’s hold over the duke, then the siege digs in and events play out on a seasonal basis. It is worth noting that Avedutus is not at the siege of Verona during the initial engagement. He instead leads the attack on the player covenant, with the events timed to coincide.''
''The Siege Digs In''
''There is the potential for a siege to become a significant or even central event in a saga as the events now start to play out on a seasonal basis. But this also provides the magi with the opportunity to use their time to develop magical defenses or to plan and prepare to take the battle to the Trattato. In place of the normal rolls used to determine the outcome of siege events,''

[|

==Describing Verona’s Defenses==

''The Lords of Men supplement provides rules for running and deciding sieges. These rules take a story-based approach combined with some simple statistics used to describe castles, towns, and cities.''
''• Garrison: Verona has a +4 weight of numbers bonus, which ensures that a significant combat event only happens once per season. While the besieging army initiates many attacks through the season, the large resident garrison easily absorbs most of the pressure. • Defenses: The city has superior defenses, provided by the strong city walls, and a +3 defense bonus. This bonus multiplied by the city’s size modifier of 4 means that the walls have a total of 12 damage levels. The strength of the walls means that any checks against enemy artillery happen at a rate of one per''
''month, or three per season. Verona, given its frequent trouble with its neighbors, has an accomplished siege engineer with an Intelligence of 3 and a Profession: Siege Engineer Ability score of 5. • Supplies: Situated on a river, Verona has a superior supply line. Under blockade it must make a supplies check only once per season and does so with a siege conditions bonus of +5. It is also allowed three failed rolls before the city is starved. At this point, troupe characters must make the standard deprivation checks against starvation as described in ArM5, page 180.''
''Once the siege digs in, the duke’s strategy is to blockade the city, deploying his army to surround Verona’s southern and western walls and crossing the river to stockade the east.''

==Tactics of the Trattato==

''Lucia uses her Mentem magic and air of seduction to make any attacking grogs forget their purpose, render them insensible, or turn their swords against their own allies. If Avedutus has any Arcane Connections to his enemies he uses his anvil and hammer casting tools in his wagon to assault them through magic. He does this before taking to the battlefield where his enchanted arms and armor let him attack mundane troops with impunity and potentially outmatch even magi whose magic may be subject to failure in stressful situations. He is acutely aware of his own magical weakness and threats to his wagon can distract him and pull''
''him out of the battle, which is why he leaves a trained combat group to guard it. It is worth noting that his sword has no constant magical effects, which means it can be used normally against opponents with Magic Resistance. Al-’Aqrab is most likely to retreat, abandoning his allies as soon as he sees the odds turn against him. The almost-faerie Patronus rejoices in summoning/creating forest upon forest of swarming wooden faeries who surge at his enemies. However, these faeries only last a Diameter at best, which means he has little time to prepare and must cast his spells while he is in harm’s way.''

|]
''the troupe magi are presented with a different challenge each season, to which they must find a solution. They may take any approach they wish, including a purely magical solution, to resolving the problem. Failure at any of the events sees the city buckle under the pressure and the frequency with which events must be faced increases: season to month, month to week, and then week to day. The following events may be presented in any order and repeated where appropriate. Storyguides are encouraged to tailor the events based on the troupe characters present or design new events that present additional challenges.''
''Undermining The enemy engineers use mines to weaken and breach the southern walls. The magi must find a way to anticipate the mines and prevent the mining, or to repair the damage already caused. Failure reduces the city’s defense bonus by one and sees an increase in event frequency.''
''Artillery assault The enemy siege engines begin relentlessly pounding the walls, threatening to reduce the southern wall to rubble. The magi must destroy the enemy siege engines, prevent the missiles from striking the walls, or repair the damage already caused. Failure reduces the city’s defense bonus by one and sees an increase in event frequency.''
''Escalade Focus moves to the eastern wall across the river and soldiers are committed to escalade; scaling the walls and trying to gain access to the gate houses. The troupe characters must again play the defenders and prevent the gates from being opened. Failure reduces the city’s defense bonus by one and sees an increase in event frequency.''
''Hunger The blockade starts to bite as resupply becomes harder. The population are reduced to scratching around for food and are forced to make even the inedible edible. The troupe characters must ensure that a supply route is reopened or that sufficient food for the city can be magically created or brought to the city. Failure reduces the city’s siege conditions bonus by one and sees an increase in event frequency.''
''Illness Months of deprivation take their toll on the population. An outbreak of flux (Art & Academe, page 47) drives across the city. The magi must find a way to cure or contain the disease. Failure reduces the city’s siege conditions bonus by one and sees an increase in event frequency.''
''Morale After having been under siege for so long and enduring so much hardship and death, the Veronese people are ready to sue for terms with the duke. This is a dangerous time when the council may lose control of their people. Failure to restore morale or resolve likely sees the end of the siege as the people accept the duke’s terms and those who ruled the city are punished by its new ruler. Unless the magi leave or avoid capture, this may well include them.''
''Supernatural Interference The presence of so much conflict attracts creatures from the four realms to the city. Demons influence the leaders on both sides to take actions which would clearly result in more death. Faeries try to incite acts of fruitless personal valor, feeding off the vitality generated as heroes die tragic deaths. Magical spirits of pain, rage, or hopelessness''
''start to affect the populous. Finally, divine spirits urge reconciliation in order to prevent more bloodshed. Whatever the creature and whatever the realm, the magi must prevent its plan from coming to pass. Succeeding in as many events as the storyguide wishes to present means that the city, with the help of their magical allies, has outlasted the duke. After seasons subjecting Verona to siege, he withdraws his army from the surrounding area and returns to Casalmaggiore without his prize. If the troupe characters helped Giuliano to attain the dukedom, Lucia’s grip is not so strong, and the besieging army not so resolute. Reduce the number of siege events that they face by two, making the siege easier to weather.''
''Raising the Siege''
''The above events cast the magi in the role of being reactive to the duke’s assault and subsequent siege. But they may seek to raise the siege by taking direct action. This may not require the magi to enter combat if they have planned ahead and used their time and resources to arm or prepare their grogs, companions, or the Veronese garrison.''
''Use of spies or magic to gain information on the movement of key personnel in the enemy army reveals when the Trattato magi are present and when any of them are away, likely in Casalmaggiore or Castello del Selvaggio. The characters can use this information to time any counter attack. The players should be free to decide their own strategy of course, but the following battlefield events may be useful:''
''Lead the Sortie The troupe characters, each within a combat group of five men, lead an attack against an equal number of lightly armed levies as they charge from the city gates and assault the earthworks destined to be used in a new mining attempt.''
''Secure the Forward Line With the levies driven away from the earthworks, the troupe characters defend their position against overwhelming odds. Heavily armed soldiers surge to replace the fleeing levies. If they succeed in defeating the attacking soldiers, they have held the line and can make a push towards the enemy command position.''
''Run the Gauntlet The troupe characters make their way through the enemy lines, either protected by a charge forcing a line through the encampment, or by magical means. If they reach the duke’s command post, they attempt to take him and his magical guard down.''
''Capture the Command Unless the troupe characters timed their attack for the absence of the Trattato magi, the duke is defended by the four magi and a trained combat group of five knights who defend their duke until death. The attempt to take the duke should be seen as a “Heroic Gesture”, that is, a troupe character dying during this event does not die in vain. His death carries narrative power and marks the moment when reinforcements arrive from the city, enough to force the retreat, surrender, or outright defeat of the Trattato magi and the duke.''

==The Covenant Assaulted==

''The magi of the Trattato are less concerned with Verona, even if the troupe magi are all holed up within the city. Their prize is the troupe’s covenant and its lands and resources, and it is here that they concentrate their own assault. A small force of 30 mercenaries are ordered by Avedutus to engage in chevauchee, a general raiding and scourging of the land around the player covenant. The intention is distraction and a feint to draw out some or all of the covenant’s magi. After a day or two of chevauchee, Avedutus brings his main force within sight of the covenant.''
''The Warning''
''As the duke’s mercenaries gather outside the player covenant, Lucia and Avedutus, safe as it is the eve before the Wizard War begins, request audi''

[|

==The Proactive Course==

''It is quite likely that the player magi will at least discuss the option of undertaking a preemptive strike against the Trattato. To remain within the law, this needs to be done under the protection of Wizard’s War. And it is possible for these magi to build an alliance with other covenants and magi to coordinate multiple declarations of Wizard’s War. Lucia and her followers are confident... but not that confident. If there is a strong enough force opposing them, they may seek surrender and exile from the Tribunal.''
''This route allows the player magi to engage in politics with their neighbors, potentially bringing enemies together to fight a common foe. Importantly, it allows them to control the action and the pace of the fight with the Trattato. If the players are successful in gathering a force, the storyguide should allow them to dictate the terms under which they track and confront the members of the Trattato. For instance, if they intend to split the four and hunt them individually, the storyguide should present encounters to suit.''

|]
''ence under cover of truce. If the audience is granted, Lucia explains that the duke desires to make claim upon the land on which the covenant stands in recompense for the loss and insult caused to Casalmaggiore by the city of Verona. But the Lady Lucia offers to make use of such little influence as she has with the duke and ensure that neither the covenant nor its lands are molested in the conflict with Verona. She urges that there is still time to accept the terms offered by the Trattato. There is no mistaking the intention. This is a direct threat and ultimatum; submit or see the forces of Casalmaggiore unleashed upon the covenant. Lucia points out that her offer of friendship unfortunately expires with the rising of the full moon and commencement of Wizard War. She urges that the player magi find the strength to save the lives of their covenfolk.''
''The Assault Begins''
''The magi of Trattato are assuming that their targets will abide by Hermetic law and not assault them until the Wizard War officially starts. They are not so noble and as the sun sets, Al-’Aqrab, in concert with the Trattato, casts his Breaking the Shield spell, utilizing the Wizard’s Communion, to bring down the covenant’s Aegis of the Hearth. The spell has a Sight range, which means that the attacking magi are visible from the covenant. This provides the player magi an important opportunity to disrupt the spellcasting. As soon as the Aegis goes down, Avedutus gives the order, a horn is blown and the crossbowman armed with the wall-breaching bolts moves into position. If the player magi are not prepared, the first volley breaches the covenant wall. You should use the Standard Soldier statistics from the core rulebook (page 22) for Avedutus’ troops. Treat''
''Avedutus as both vanguard and leader of a trained group of five members.''
''The Course of Battle''
''Once the wall has been breached, the fight for the covenant takes place in three key locations.''
''Stop Up The Wall The covenfolk must defend the breach in the wall against three times their number of enemy soldiers. One of the enemy combat units is led by Avedutus, another defends Al-’Aqrab, and another still defends Patronus and ensures he gets within the walls. Fighting during this event and at this location is on hazardous ground, which ensures that all rolls are stress rolls and adds an extra botch die. Troupe characters may choose to retreat from wall, in which case they move to the next event.''
''Holding The Courtyard If Avedutus and his men force their way through the wall, they achieve the courtyard. It is here, assuming he survives the first event, that Patronus unleashes a swarm of faeries to add to the weight of troops that any troupe characters must defend against.''
''The Keep In addition to any preparations made to defend the central part of the covenant, represented by the idea of a “keep,” the troupe characters receive a +1 bonus to attack and defense rolls while they defend the keep. Any troupe character in any part of the covenant during this event gains the bonus. If this event is lost, by the death of one or more troupe characters, or by the surrender of the troupe characters, then the Trattato have taken the covenant.''
''The Fall of the Covenant''
''If the covenant surrenders or is breached, Avedutus leads twenty soldiers in search of the magi. He does not spare them if he finds them so this is a particularly dangerous part of the scenario. He can not be held by offers to talk or to surrender, and orders his crossbowmen to loose as soon as he identifies his targets. Any who are able to disguise themselves as companions or grogs are able to surrender so long as they make a very convincing and prompt show of laying down their arms and yielding to Avedutus. They are then be rounded up and locked away in whatever passes for a dungeon or secure prison. During this final event, any surviving magi may choose to face the magi of the Trattato directly. For the purposes of these dramatic scenes, the presence of enemy soldiers or troupe grogs can be considered to cancel each other out and the focus should be put onto the magi alone and either the troupe’s magi or the magi of the Trattato fall.''

==The Morning After the Storm==

''There is no guarantee of a successful outcome to the Wizard’s Wars fought by the player magi. The magi must fight with every weapon in their arsenal and go to places they perhaps might not wish to go. If they repel the siege and force their rival magi to capitulate then their covenant is safe and all the territory lost to the invaders is theirs to retain as the spoils of war or return to those who can show a prior claim. But if their enemies in the Trattato are too strong then they may lose their covenant and the saga must take a new direction, perhaps one in which the magi renew their political efforts to claim''
''back what is theirs. The magi of the Trattato have clearly breached the Code and the protection they enjoy by working behind and alongside Casalmaggiore cannot protect them forever from the will of the Tribunal.''

==Experience Points==

''Each “act” is worth a minimum of five experience points to the characters who took part. Some acts take place over multiple seasons and the experience awards are made in the final season, so treat any action in previous seasons as normal distractions from any study or laboratory work the magi may be involved in.''

==Other Rewards==

''The offer made by Verona, if accepted, is good for at least a generation before unscrupulous rulers seek to claim it back. In addition, with the fall of Castello del Selvaggio, its resources may be up for grabs. The vis sources in particular may become an ongoing source of conflict within the Tribunal, with covenants maneuvering to annex or otherwise lay claim to them. But the site of the covenant itself, within a valuable magical aura, and its connections to other auras in the nearby city, would be attractive to a group of magi out to found their own covenant. And the covenant that controls these sites could''
''exert strong political pressure, perhaps creating chapter houses under their influence, or agreeing a form of lease with prospective magi.''

==Taking the Story Forward==

''As discussed above, the site of the former covenant of Castello del Selvaggio is open to claims from inside and outside the Tribunal. The site is magical in nature, sits atop a known entrance to the Faerie realm, and is close to valleys that pass through the Alps. Of course, in your own saga, where your “Castello del Selvaggio” could be situated anywhere, it is sufficient that it has an aura and easy access to at least one or two vis sources. If your magi defeat Lucia then your covenant is likely to have a considerable say over how the Selvaggio lands are disposed.''
''Hermetic Relations''
''If the magi lose their covenant, then Lucia has taken a further step to dominance. Having shown her power, she starts to intimidate other magi into ceding their Tribunal votes to her, under the implied threat of Wizard’s War or outright conquest. The magi must then find a way to rebuild elsewhere or to raise enough support to bring Lucia and her covenant down and in doing so reclaim''
''what they have lost. If the player magi defeat Lucia they attain a powerful position having proven themselves strong enough to defeat a grave threat. And they potentially have effective control over the resources that belonged to Castello del Selvaggio, a site that could develop into a chapter house. This would grant the Chapter House Covenant Hook (Covenants, page 19), and the Minor Hook, Prestige.''
''Mundane Relations''
''Late in the story, the magi are given a choice to either help the city of Verona or turn away. Long memories are a way of life in the Lombard communes and the covenant is seen by Verona as either convenient allies or as treacherous enemies. If the magi helped the city to withstand the assault, they are approached on a regular basis for either advice or outright assistance. The city acknowledges the need to work through proxies and for the most part honors any restrictions placed by the magi upon the relationship. Engagement with Verona grants the Powerful Ally Covenant Boon (Covenants, page 21) and the Mundane Politics Hook. Rejection of Verona’s offer and failure to deal with the Duca di Casalmaggiore imposes at least the War Zone Covenant Hook.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
