''Sixteen years ago, a crusader stole a reliquary from a church, inside which was trapped a powerful demon. Now, years later, the demon is working its way free of its prison, and its hellish powers are tainting everything around it. This scenario pits your troupe against the diabolical workings of a sinister demon and a group of infernalists who have been drawn to its power, and gives the troupe access to powerful tools to fight against the forces of Hell. Although the infernalists do have access to some diabolical powers, an experienced group of magi and companions would easily overwhelm them. If your troupe has access to Realms of Power: The Infernal, storyguides should feel free to increase their power to match the players’ characters.''

==Précis==

''Peter is a former crusader who lives in a village near the characters’ covenant. He traveled as a sergeant-at-arms on the ill-fated Fourth Crusade — a crusade that ended with the sacking and burning to the ground of Constantinople, Christendom’s greatest city. While on crusade, Peter participated in the looting of a church, and returned home with his prize. He, and the village priest to whom he gifted it, believed it was an ancient reliquary (a decorated container for a holy relic). The reliquary was, in fact, an Hermetic device created to trap a powerful Greek demon. The prison was stored beneath the altar of an ancient church with a history of combating devils and demons. While stored in a holy place, the demon was trapped and could not influence the outside world. Once removed, however, it began to fight against its bonds, and now, decades later, it has begun to loosen them. The magical bonds that trap it are weakening — thanks to the interference of a clumsy priest — and the Divine aura of the village church is not great enough to weaken it substantially.''
''A diabolical taint has begun to infect the village and its lands, and a small group of infernalists has been drawn to the growing hellish power. A pall has been cast over the village by the infernal aura that has grown around the church — brother is turning against brother, fights and arguments are common, wounds and injuries seem to fester, illness is rife, and cooperation and good will are fading. To make matters worse, the infernalists have kidnapped one of the villagers. It is up to your troupe to fight off the infernalists, restore the strength of the bonds imprisoning the demon, and eradicate the taint from the village.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''The following are the major characters who are featured in this adventure, along with their stats.''

==Villagers==

''Peter, Father Herbert, and Baldwin are the three most influential people in the village.''

===Peter the Crusader===

''Peter is a bastard son of a local noble, has never been acknowledged, and lives as an influential peasant. Two decades ago, at the age of twenty, Peter decided to leave his home to join the Fourth Crusade. In the course of his expedition, he came into possession of a powerful Hermetic device. Mistaking it for the container of a magnificent relic, Peter returned to his home village with the pillaged device. Once home, Peter gifted the reliquary to the village’s church, where it was ceremonially placed in a position of great honor. Peter’s prestige was greatly increased by this gift, and by''
''the other riches he returned with from the crusade. He is now a middle-aged man, with a wife and several children, and occupies an influential position in the village. His chief rival in the village is the Baldwin, a proud elder whose family was traditionally the most important and authoritative. Although Peter was once quite wealthy, most of the treasure he brought back from the Holy Land is now gone. He now has little free time, although he does control more land than the other families in the village.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +2 (2) Size: 0 Age: 41 (41) Decrepitude: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Peasant; Warrior, Well-traveled; Close Family Ties, Meddler (Minor), Proud (Minor) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Honest +3, Loyal +2 Reputations: Honorable Crusader +3 (local), Influential Villager +3 (local) Combat: Axe: Init +3, Attack +11, Defense +7, Damage +7 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 5 (horses), Area Lore: Local 3 (farms), Area Lore: Crusader Routes 2 (Fourth Crusade), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 3 (dinner table), Bargain 4 (sheep), Bows 2 (sieges), Brawl 3 (multiple opponents), Carouse 4 (speedy eating), Charm 4 (family), Etiquette 2 (armies), Folk Ken 4 (family), Great Weapon 3 (pole-arm), Greek 3 (ordering food), Music 2 (food hall songs), Native Language 5 (compliments), Profession: Farming 5 (large farms), Single Weapon 5 (axe), Survival 2 (armies), Swim 1 (rivers) Equipment: Axe, farming tools, leather armor. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Peter is a middle-aged, balding man, his oncedark brown hair now mostly grey. His face is deeply lined and tanned. Peter covers his head in a leather cap, and wears well-crafted but simple clothes — a tunic and leggings.''

===Father Herbert, the Village Priest===

''Herbert is only recently arrived at the village, replacing the previous priest who died five years ago. Herbert is relatively young, and is still finding his way around the village. Originally from a cathedral school in a distant town, Herbert''
''resents his posting in the village, which he sees as a dead end. This view means that he takes his duties with only a grain of seriousness, and is starting to despair that he will never leave. Not long ago, he embarrassed himself by getting involved in an interfamily feud — he broke the confidence of village elder Baldwin to Peter, and then to make it up to Baldwin, revealed a secret of Peter’s to Baldwin. This resulted in both Peter’s and Baldwin’s extended families boycotting his sermons for almost a year. In order to better find a niche, he has befriended Peter, who has started to champion Father Herbert with the villagers. This has resulted in the villagers slowly coming to see him as a figure of some authority and respect. The one thing that Herbert finds remarkable and worthwhile in the village is the church’s reliquary. He is immensely proud that his church has such a valuable item in it, and one of his very few joys is to polish and clean it every week.''
''Several months ago, Herbert accidentally dropped the reliquary, which broke off a valuable jewel fixed prominently on top. He tried to reattach it, but has since hidden the gem and hides the damaged face of the reliquary. He is too afraid to seek anyone’s help to fix it, since he believes that the villagers would be furious with him. The gem itself is hidden under his mattress.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 32 (32) Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Privileged Upbringing, Student of the Divine; Depressed, Meddler, Vow Personality Traits: Depressed +4, Self-conscious +3, Pious +2, Talkative +2 Reputations: Village priest +3 (local), Blabbermouth +2 (local) Combat: Fist: Init 0, Attack +1, Defense +1, Damage –1 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: [Area] Lore 3 (geography), Artes Liberales 4 (logic), Awareness 3 (bored parishioners), Brawl 1 (dodging), Charm 3 (clergy), Church Lore 4 (history), Concentration 3 (reading), Dominion Lore 3+2 (miracles), Etiquette 3 (the Church), Folk Ken 4 (villagers),''
''Latin 4 (sermons), Leadership 2 (inspiring guilt), Music 1 (psalms), Native Language 5 (gossip), Teaching 3 (teaching Theology), Theology 4 (sermons) Equipment: An old, bound copy of the Book of Matthew, scruffy priest’s robe, ornate crucifix carved from ivory. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Herbert dresses in scruffy black robes and wears an ornate cross around his neck.''

===Baldwin the Village Elder===

''Baldwin is the rival village elder to Peter, and is a minor officer of the local lord (such as a reeve or similar appropriate position). Until Peter’s return from the Fourth Crusade, Baldwin’s father was the most respected and influential man in the village; Baldwin inherited that position when his father passed away. Following the death of the previous village priest, Peter’s influence and authority over the village increased, to Baldwin’s detriment. Baldwin and Peter are in a bitter dispute over the boundary of some land that both claim to own. The plot runs along a small stream, which recently dramatically changed its course after a flood burst its banks and diverted it for several miles. This is the same stream that runs through the village, although the land is a mile or so away from the village proper. Baldwin is a grumpy old man, approximately sixty years old, with a large extended family — several sons and daughters and a veritable army of grandchildren and greatgrandchildren. There is an air of bitterness and resentment held by Baldwin and his children towards Peter, and also towards Father Herbert. One of Baldwin’s nephews, Conrad, has been kidnapped by the infernalists.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per–1, Pre +1, Com0, Str +1, Sta +0, Dex +0, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 64 (70) Decrepitude: 2 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Peasant; Temporal Influence; Gossip; Enfeebled, Envious (Minor), Poor Eyesight Personality Traits: Meddler +3, Honest +3, Loyal +2 Reputations: Influential Villager +3 (local) Combat: Fist: Init –1, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage +1 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Setup==

''This scenario requires that there be a suitably sized village close to the covenant, or within the covenant’s sphere of influence and interest. Nevertheless, the action could take place in larger villages, or even a town, with some changes. Similarly, Peter’s background and involvement in the Fourth Crusade is not necessary, especially if the troupe’s saga is set at an alternative time to the standard Ars Magica date of 1220. If set earlier, Peter could be a crusader returned from one of the earlier crusades. Similarly, Peter could have been a participant in the Reconquista so that the reliquary could be the magical device of a Muslim wizard, or he might have been a solider in the Albigensian Crusade so the reliquary could come from a magus in the Provencal Tribunal.''

|}
''Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (sheep), Area Lore: Local 6 (farms), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 5 (fields), Bargain 4 (villagers), Brawl 3, Carouse 1 (festivals), Charm 4 (family), Etiquette 2 (superiors), Folk Ken 6 (villagers), Music 2 (festivals), Native Language 5 (farming), Profession: Farming 7 (large farms), Single Weapon 1 (axe), Survival 2 (fields) Equipment: Farming tools, tunic, cloth cloak. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Baldwin is an aging and balding man, with a wrinkled face, squinting eyes, and slightly trembling hands. He wears well-made but simple clothes, although he shows some ostentation with a magnificent silver belt buckle.''

===Villagers===

''There are approximately 70 villagers, with just over half of adult working age. The remainder are old and feeble or children. Three large families dominate the village. The family of Peter is the most influential, due to his prestige as a returned Crusader and the riches he once had. Baldwin’s family is the second most influential, due to Baldwin’s hereditary position, and has suffered a loss of prestige due to Peter’s rise to prominence.''

==Infernalists==

''There are three cultists who have been attracted to the village by the diabolical taint emanating from the reliquary. Michael, the cult leader, is a sadistic and ruthless practitioner of the dark arts. Benedict is Michael’s enthusiastic accomplice and loyal bodyguard. Maria is a victim of the cult — she was kidnapped by Michael and Benedict and is now too terrified to run away.''

===Michael, Cult Leader===

''Michael was drawn to the village after the banishment of his former demonic master, whose plot in a village in a neighboring kingdom was foiled. Although he managed to escape, Michael’s powers have been somewhat diminished now that he no longer has the guidance of a morepowerful demon. He is looking for a new demonic patron, and has heard the call of the Infernal taint emerging around the village. Michael knows that there is a powerful demon trapped somewhere near the village, but does not know that it is locked in the reliquary. An experienced infernalist, Michael is steeped in sin and debauchery. He''
''is entirely enthralled by the powers of Hell, and seeks to rise in its ranks. He sees the trapped demon as a means to that end. Little is known of Michael’s background — he purports to be of noble blood and cheated of his rightful inheritance, but he betrays the mannerisms of a commoner, and has little of the knowledge that someone of noble birth is taught from a young age. He is haughty and imperious, but is prone to losing his temper, and tries to flee when he does not have the upper hand. He has no qualms about leaving his lackeys to their doom. At night he searches with Maria throughout the village and the land surrounding it for signs of the infernal. He originally suspected that it was trapped in the grotto where he has made his lair, but he now believes that it is somewhere in the village. He has avoided the church so far, but the longer he spends searching, the closer he will get to the reliquary. Michael knows little about Hermetic magic or the powers of magi. He knows that wizards are powerful and are to be feared and avoided, but no more.''
''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 36 (50) Decrepitude: 1 Warping Score: 1 (4) Confidence Score: 2 (12) Virtues and Flaws: Outcast; Debauchery, Effusion; Improved Characteristics, Infernal Blessing (Infernal Protection, Infernal Confidence, Minor); Envious; Proud, Offensive to Animals, Tainted with Evil, Visions, Witch Marks Personality Traits: Cruel +3, Haughty +2, Altruistic –2 Reputations: Masterless +1 (Infernal) Combat: Fist: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage 0 Dagger: Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage +3 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: [Area] Lore 2, Awareness 3, Brawl 1, Charm 4, Concentration 2, Debauchery 5, Effusion 4, Folk Ken 4, Guile 4, Infernal Lore 3, Latin 3, Leadership 3, Native Language 5, Penetration 4, Stealth 2, Survival 2 Equipment: Animal-skin cloak, ceremonial dagger (hidden beneath his cloak), leather cap, poorly made clothes. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Michael has greasy shoulder-length hair, which is prematurely gray. Michael dresses in rough,''
''homespun clothes, and a black leather cap, with his hair sticking out from underneath. He has a sour expression. His witch mark is a large purple mark in the shape of a howling wolf, which runs down his neck beneath his shirt. He often wears an animal skin cloak to hide it.''
''See the nearby insert for explanations of Michael’s Infernal Powers. Due to his Infernal Blessing Virtue, Michael has a Magic Resistance of 15. Michael’s Witch Marks Flaw is the cause of his older appearance.''

===Benedict, Cultist===

''Brought up on the streets of a nearby city, Benedict was an orphan who fell into the company of a desperate group of city thugs and thieves. He quickly became a heavy drinker and is prone to fits of rage. He committed his first murder over a misunderstanding, after finding his then-partner in the room of a fellow gang-member, killing them both. Since that day, he has sunk even lower; he became one of the leading heavies for an extortionist, who was being enthralled by a demon. Benedict was himself drawn into the demon’s influence.''

==Michael’s Maleficia==

''Michael’s infernal powers — called maleficia — focus on controlling the weather and making bad weather worse. Although Michael’s powers are diverse (they are similar to Hermetic spontaneous magic), he does have a few maleficia that he relies on regularly. Troupes with access to Realms of Power: The Infernal should refer to page 108 for more details. In order to use any of these powers, Michael must roll: stress die + Stamina + Debauchery + Effusion + aura, against an Ease Factor equal to the level of the power below. Any failure in a Debauchery roll is considered a botch (1 botch for every 10 levels or fraction thereof the roll failed by). This form of magic is slow, as it requires the infernalist to perform an evil ritual, corrupting his own body and thus suffering a long-term Fatigue level (this takes approximately 2 minutes). The infernalist can speed this up by suffering a wound, such as by cutting himself (and inflicting a Light Wound), which makes it even faster than Hermetic magic. Infernalists can also perform ritual sacrifices to increase the potency of their malefica. Sacrificing an animal grants a +4 to his total, sacrificing a black animal grants a +6 bonus, sacrificing a human grants a +8 bonus, and sacrificing an innocent human''
''grants a +10 bonus. Maleficia are like other supernatural powers for the purposes of Magic Resistance, and are considered Vim effects for the purposes of Form bonuses. Maleficia are also affected by Realm Interaction modifiers (see ArM5, page 183).''

===Flying On the Devil’s Breath===

''Debauchery/Effusion, Level 20 R: Sight, D: Conc, T: Ind This power summons powerful winds, great enough to lift a person through the air at high speed. The character must concentrate to control the winds, and cannot do so if they are out of his sight. Michael uses this power on himself to fly around, but can also use it on others. Using this power on himself and another person simultaneously requires Concentration rolls. (Base 4, +3 Sight, +1 Conc)''

===Hell’s Bellows===

''Debauchery/Effusion, Level 15 R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind This power causes a fire to increase in heat, which increases the damage caused by the fire by +4. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)''

===Lucifer’s Tongs===

''Debauchery/Effusion, Level 20 R: Sight, D: Diam, T: Ind Metal objects become red hot when this power is used, causing +6 damager per round to characters touching the metal. (Base 4, +3 Sight, +1 Diam)''

===Ruin Crops===

''Debauchery/Effusion, Level 20 R: Sight, D: Sun, T: Ind This power turns rain into hail, which causes a great deal of damage to crops and property. People caught in the hail take +2 damage per round they are directly exposed to the hail. (Base 1, +3 Sight, +2 Sun, +2 size)''

===Shroud of the Forsaken===

''Debauchery/Effusion, Level 25 R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Boundary With this power, the light of the moon and starlight at night is darkened to almost nothing, shrouding the land in darkness. With all natural light mostly extinguished, only artificial light can illuminate the affected land. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +4 Boundary)''
''Benedict met Michael after the extortionist was executed by the city authorities, and he was forced to flee the city. Michael needed muscle, and Benedict needed money. Soon, Michael was relying on Benedict to carry out the wishes of his demonic master. When the demon was banished, both Benedict and Michael fled again, and have since come to the village, drawn by the taint coming from the reliquary.''
''Characteristics: Int –2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com –2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 29 (29) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 1 (1) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity (iron); Depraved, Outcast, Tainted with Evil Personality Traits: Cruel +3, Erratic +3, Loyal +2 Reputations: Violent +2 (nearby town) Combat: Axe: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +5, Damage +9 Dagger: Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +6 Fist: Init +1, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +3 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: [Area] Lore 3 (roads and paths), Athletics 4 (acts of strength), Awareness 4 (alleys), Brawl 5 (dirty fighting), Charm 1 (tavern wenches), Folk Ken 2 (detecting threats), Great Weapon 3 (spears), Guile 3 (lies), Infernal Lore 1 (demonic hierarchies), Leadership 3 (intimidation), Legerdemain 1 (cut-purse), Native Language 5 (threats), Single Weapon 5 (axe), Survival 2 (traps), Swim 1 (rivers) Equipment: Dagger, axe, leather clothes, satchel. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Benedict is a hulking brute, with a bald head and tiny, close-set eyes. He wears dirty and torn leather clothing. A leer is on his thin-lipped mouth, showing his many missing teeth.''
''Note that due to his immunity to iron, iron weapons cannot pierce Benedict’s skin or cause him any damage whatsoever.''

===Maria, Cultist===

''Maria is a street urchin who was kidnapped by Michael and Benedict and forced into their service. Mi''
''chael uses her talent to sense Divine and Infernal auras, objects, and people in order to search for the trapped demon. She is deeply terrified of both of the other infernalists, but she is too afraid to run away or to disobey them. Slowly, Maria is being corrupted. She plays a role in the cult’s rituals, and helps Benedict and Michael in their activities. Fear and despair rule Maria’s life, and she would jump at the opportunity to escape Michael’s clutches. Unfortunately, she has lost hope, and is more than likely to betray any would-be rescuers, unless she can be convinced that there is a real chance that she could be saved. When Michael and Benedict are not within earshot, Maria will often be overwhelmed with despair and cry; she does not cry when they are near because they beat her.''

==Maria==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: –1 Age: 16 (16) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (2) Confidence Score: 1 (1) Virtues and Flaws: Keen Vision, Light Touch, Sense Holiness and Unholiness; Depressed, Pessimistic, Susceptibility to Infernal Power Personality Traits: Desperate +3, Bold –1 Reputations: None Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +2, Defense +3, Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: [Area] Lore 2, Athletics 3, Bargain 2, Brawl 1, Charm 2, Folk Ken 3, Guile 2, Legerdemain 2, Native Language 5, Sense Holiness and Unholiness 3, Survival 2 Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Maria is a small, pale girl with dirty hair and a sorrowful expression. She is not a pretty girl, having watery eyes and several warts on her face. She dresses in rags and is kept warm by a sheepskin.''
''Maria’s Sense Holiness and Unholiness is granted by the Infernal Realm.''
''Tales of Mythic Europe Expected Sequence of Play''
''This part of the chapter describes how the scenario is likely to play out, with advice for the story guide on timelines and how different NPCs are likely to react.''

==Discovering the Taint==

''Below are three options for the troupe to get started with this scenario. None of the options are exclusive — you could use one, two, or all of them.''

===Gradual Creep===

''An Infernal aura is gradually seeping out of the reliquary, tainting the lands around it for miles. The taint is causing the villagers to act in less-pious ways, incites con''
''flict, encourages lies and makes the people, animals, and crops sickly. The aura is strongest around the reliquary, but has spread out to the village and is starting to gain its own momentum, as the villagers descend into argument and conflict. Originally, the Dominion aura in the village was level 2, and level 1 in the surrounding fields. In the church it increased to level 3, and level 4 around the altar. However, the Infernal aura is starting to overwhelm the Dominion. In the village and fields surrounding the village, the Infernal aura is level 2 (for as far as you can see the church). In the church the Infernal aura is level 3. At night, the Infernal auras increase by 1. This means that, during the day, the village and church have a Dominion aura, as that aura dominates, but the fields have an Infernal aura of 2. At night, however, everywhere except for the area around the altar has an Infernal aura, as the higher-level Infernal aura overpowers the Dominion aura. For the last few months, the taint has been growing and spreading. As the demon trapped in the reliquary first began to break free, the Infernal aura was unnoticeable. However, the taint spread beneath the Dominion aura, into the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Using Story Flaws and Hooks==

''Use these flaws and hooks to involve the players in the story.''

===Character Story Flaws===

''Close Family Ties: A companion, or even a magus, has family in the village (perhaps related to Peter or Baldwin) and is drawn into the conflict between the two villagers. Dark Secret: Your Hermetic lineage may trace back to John Philosymeon (suitable for Verditius characters only), the creator of the reliquary, and a rumor emerges that one of his devices has been sighted in a village. Dependent: Your dependent gets caught or injured by the infernalists drawn to the village, and requires your assistance. Diabolic Past: Your infernal past links you to Michael the infernalist, who either seeks out your assistance in uncovering the trapped''
''demon, or learns that your covenant is close to the village he has been drawn to. Difficult Underlings: Your servants, in their dealings with the village, are either drawn into the internecine conflict, are cheated by the villagers (who are influenced by the Perfidious Aura), or are blamed for the village’s troubles and are attacked. Favors: You owe a favor to someone who has an interest in resolving the conflict in the village — the local lord, bishop, or even a magus — who requests that you mediate between Peter and Baldwin. Heir: The village is located in the lands that you will one day inherit, and you can help secure your place as heir by ensuring that the village returns to peace and quiet. Mentor: Your mentor asks you to investigate possible infernal activity or the presence of a lost Her''
''metic device in the village. Monastic Vows: Your monastic senior asks that you assist Father Herbert in finding a solution to the village’s conflicts. Alternatively, your superior asks that you ascertain to which saint the relic belongs. Oath of Fealty: Your liege lord requests that you investigate the missing villager.''

===Covenant Hooks===

''Beholden: The person or group the covenant is beholden to requests that the village be investigated, or that the covenant assist in returning the village to peace and harmony. Protector: Your covenant is responsible for the safety of the village. Superiors: The player characters’ superiors have one of the Story Flaws above, but orders (or requests) that the player characters resolve the problem.''

|}
''village, and at night as the villagers slept. By the time it was strong enough to overwhelm the Dominion, the Infernal aura had spread for miles, promoting lies and petty hatreds, inflating pride and fostering deceit. The covenant may have a pre-existing relationship with the village or one of the villagers, and notice a change in personality and behavior. People affected by the Infernal aura start telling lies, are insolent towards authority, or betray trusts. The villagers (or an individual villager) could break an agreement with the covenant — perhaps the village normally sells some crops or animals to the covenant, but this season unusually short-shrifts the covenant. If the covenant has no pre-existing relationship with the village or any of the villagers, then the growing infernal aura may be brought to their attention by a passing Redcap with the Sense Holiness and Unholiness Virtue, or by a grog or companion who passes through the village and notices the diabolical characteristics of the aura.''

===Infernalists Strike===

''Michael is a desperate man, and wants to hurry the escape of the demon. Although he does not know exactly where it is, he suspects (correctly) that the stronger the Infernal aura becomes, the stronger the demon becomes. In order to increase the strength of the Infernal aura, Michael kidnaps and ritually murders one of the villagers — from the family of Baldwin. This grisly act in the vicinity of the trapped demon has a chance of increasing the Infernal aura. This can involve the characters and the covenant through the villagers (likely to be Baldwin or one of his''
''sons) beseeching the covenant’s help in trying to solve the kidnapping of Conrad. Michael and Benedict do not hide their tracks particularly well. The trail leads to the village — a Survival or Hunt roll against an Ease Factor of 9 shows the way there. Once at the village, the tracks are harder to follow. Michael and Benedict dragged their victim through the outskirts of the village, and their tracks have since been walked over by villagers. Survival or Hunt rolls against an Ease Factor of 21 uncover the tracks leading to the cult’s lair under the nearby hill. The characters will most likely need to talk to the villagers to learn more. Intellego magic also reveals Michael’s victim being attacked and overwhelmed by Michael and Benedict, and also their path to and through the village. Once at the village, the characters have the opportunity to learn of the Infernal aura, track down Michael, and uncover the existence of the trapped demon.''

===Divine Intervention===

''Some covenants or characters may be pious worshippers of the Divine. If so, then they may be visited by a divinely inspired vision — an angelic visitation or dream — that warns of a terrible infernal threat. An angel or other servant of the Divine could also appear in less-supernatural garb; an angel could take the form of a villager, requesting the help of the covenant. Alternatively, the Divine could appear to Father Herbert or another villager to advise him to seek out the help of the characters. This is the simplest way for storyguides to get their troupe involved in the story, and is obviously only appropriate if the characters are suitably pious.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Perfidious Aura==

''Perfidious auras are a unique kind of Infernal aura that embody the sins that betray trust. A Perfidious aura forms in areas so steeped in sin that they are particularly powerful domains of evil — they are never weaker than level 3, and have unique effects on those within the aura. This kind of aura forms in places where deceit has triumphed over trust, or where great lies and betrayals are committed. They are also''
''found where the Infernal has manifested directly on earth. A Perfidious aura is most commonly found in Dominion auras, where they undermine the good work of the Divine. In addition to the normal effect of an Infernal aura, the Perfidious aura that surrounds the village makes lies and betrayal easier to commit and harder to spot, especially bribery. All lies become more believable, with all attempts to detect lies adding the''
''level of the aura to the Ease Factor (making it more difficult). Furthermore, personality traits associated with trust and loyalty are decreased by the level of the aura. This affects characters with Magic Resistance as well. Finally, all healing and recovery rolls suffer a penalty equal to the level of the Infernal aura; wounds, illness, and deprivation are aggravated by the aura (this effects all humans, even the infernalists).''

|}
''Tales of Mythic Europe Traveling to the Village''
''When traveling to the village, there is a noticeable change several miles from the center of the Infernal aura. Natural plant growth is stunted and sickly, trees twist in an unnatural and disturbing fashion, and animals are aggressive. Minor infernal spirits, such as those of sickness or misfortune, also fl it around, unseen to all but those with Second Sight or Sense Holiness and Unholiness (or those with appropriate Intellego spells). Spending a signifi cant period of time in the aura may well see characters with no Magic Resistance fall ill, or suffer an unlikely accident. Characters with the Sense Holiness and Unholiness Ability may sense the Infernal aura, with an Ease Factor of 9 (see ArM5, page 67). Upon entering the aura, the characters fi nd lies easily coming to their lips. Personality Traits such as Loyal, Humble, and Trusting are reduced by the level of the aura. Rebellious or treacherous grogs or companions may be inspired to betray the covenant or the characters (or betray their trust somehow; for example, by not doing their bidding, stealing money, or revealing the magi to the villagers). Characters with Second Sight or Sense Holiness and''
''Unholiness may detect infernal spirits in the village whispering malevolent thoughts, hiding in wait for unsuspecting villagers to cause some misfortune, or trying to possess the villagers and cause sickness. See ArM5, page 67 for the details of how these Abilities work.''

==Exploring the Village==

''The village is small, with a modest church and a slowmoving stream winding through it. Most of the houses are spaced out, with plots of land surrounding them. The closeness of the stream makes the roads muddy most of the year, except in winter when the mud freezes. The road crosses the stream at a shallow area — a boggy thoroughfare where the water is only a few inches deep. In front of the church is the village common, and next to it is a graveyard. There are two houses that are larger than most of the others. The fi rst one, recently expanded, belongs to Peter and his family. The second one is older and belongs to Baldwin. Animals roam the land around the villagers’ houses, and children play in the streets with dogs most days, when they''
''are not working the fields that surround the village. Within sight of the village is a small hill that was once the site of a pagan place of worship. Generations ago it was blessed by the local bishop, and the pagan stones torn up and smashed. No trace remains of its pagan past, but the villagers avoid the hill. The village has a Dominion aura of between 1 and 2, rising to 3 at the church. The Dominion extends as far as the church bells can be heard; the church bells cannot be heard at the nearby hill.''

==Talking to the Villagers==

''Upon arriving at the village, the characters probably want to investigate, either the source of the Infernal aura, or the trail leading to the cult’s lair. If they have arrived during the day, they are able to speak to any number of villagers who are not working in the fields. The villagers are noticeably argumentative. Characters entering the village find groups of two or three villagers engaged in an argument or fight. The villagers also slander each other, particularly either Peter’s or Baldwin’s family. Half the village suspects that Peter is behind the disappearance of Baldwin’s family member. If asked about infernalists or other suspicious characters, the villagers mention that there has been a series of misfortunes recently — heavy hail, damaged crops, strong winds, and very dark nights, as well as missing sheep. A few villagers claim to have seen dark shapes sneaking through or around the village. None have really connected the nearby hill — the lair of the infernalists — to these misfortunes, and most are more concerned with the feud between Peter and Baldwin.''

===Talking To Peter===

''Peter and his family are very defensive — many other villagers suspect them of being behind the recent misfortunes. Peter has responded by spreading gossip that Baldwin cheats people out of rents and over-prices his produce. Peter denies that he has anything to do with the disappearance of Baldwin’s kinsman — this can be verified by Mentem magic. He is very angry at Baldwin for spreading this malicious rumor. Peter owns the land that is adjacent to the hill where the cult is hiding, and has lost several sheep over the last month or two. He suspects that Baldwin has been stealing them, but will admit that he has no proof if pressed. He can show the characters where they went missing, which takes the characters to the hill.''

===Talking To Baldwin===

''Baldwin and his family strongly believe that Peter or one of his family members was responsible for the disappearance of their kinsman, Conrad. Baldwin accuses Peter directly to the characters, and requests that they help bring him to justice. Baldwin takes the characters to where Conrad went missing — some way out of the village in one of Baldwin’s fields. He is also willing to give the characters one of his kinsman’s belongings to use as an Arcane Connection (unless the characters give him good reason to suspect they will do ill with it). Baldwin also recounts the various misfortunes that have befallen the village — hail, illness, and increased hostility. Baldwin is also hostile towards Father Herbert, who he believes has done nothing to help the situation.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Magic, The Gift, and Mundanes==

''The villagers’ reaction to The Gift is exacerbated by the effects of the Infernal aura. Already suspicious and fractious, the villagers treat Gifted characters with extreme suspicion. Even villagers who are likely to want the characters’ help, such as Baldwin’s family, still view them poorly and will be uncooperative. Polite characters are still able to receive help, but the villagers are more likely to lie, so the characters may not be able to trust any answers they receive. Open magical acts are likely to frighten the villagers, and make them uncooperative and hostile. The exception to this is if the magic performed is beneficial in nature, such as a healing spell, or a spell that revitalizes the nearby crops.''

==The Lord’s Authority==

''Like nearly all villages in Mythic Europe, this one is under the authority of a local lord. Few lords like disappearances and disputes in their territories. It is up to the storyguide to detail the village’s liege lord (there are numerous examples given in other chapters). In any case, as neither Peter nor Baldwin can agree on what to do, and are suspicious of each other and potential ramifications if they involve the local lord, they wait for as long as possible before sending word to the lord of the village’s troubles. Both Peter and Baldwin would prefer to sort out the situation without appealing to the lord, although other third parties (such as the covenant) may be more acceptable, as they have no direct authority.''

|}
''Tales of Mythic Europe Visiting the Church''
''Built away from the stream, the village church is a dilapidated wooden building with a simple dirt floor, and rusty hinges for the ornate timber doors. There are signs that, years ago, work was done to try to repair and beautify the church, but little work has been done in recent years. The church is made up of several rooms: the main nave is covered in straw, and is where the villagers sit when in church; and the living area for Father Herbert consists of a sleeping area and a small study. The only remarkable feature of the church is its altar, on which stands the magnificent reliquary gifted to the church by Peter. The reliquary is usually displayed at religious occasions, and most of the villagers are also very proud of it — particularly Peter’s family.''

===Investigating the Church===

''Hermetic magi and characters with Order of Hermes Lore make a Perception + Order of Hermes Lore + simple die against an Ease Factor of 9 when they see the reliquary. Those who succeed notice that the reliquary has several distinctive features characteristic of Hermetic magical devices. Characters with Philosophiae can make a Perception + Philosophiae + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 12 to notice that the symbols and images on the reliquary relate to warding off or trapping a demon (and some are in fact Verditius Runes, disguised as Christian symbols). The symbols (although not the Runes) are entirely orthodox in nature, although they are Eastern Orthodox, rather than Western. Characters with Sense Holiness and Unholiness can sense a great evil power emanating from the reliquary, with a Perception + Sense Holiness and Unholiness + aura stress roll against an Ease Factor of 15. If standing within a few feet, the Ease Factor drops to 9, and if the character touches the reliquary, the Ease Factor is only 1. There is no need to Penetrate the Magic Resistance of the trapped demon in this case, due to the nature of the demon’s corrupting power. (Note that the Sense Holiness and Unholiness is affected by Realm Interaction modifiers; see ArM5, page 183). Intellego Vim magic reveals that the reliquary is magical, although it cannot reveal its invested powers (see ArM5, page 158). Characters who examine the reliquary will need to spend a season in the laboratory investigating it to find out its properties (see ArM5, page 100).''

===Talking To Father Herbert===

''Father Herbert is at his wits’ end. Protected from the Infernal aura during the day due to spending most of his time''
''in the Dominion aura in the church, his dreams are filled with suspicions and dark thoughts towards the villagers (night is when the Infernal aura overwhelms the Dominion). He believes that he is contributing somehow to the village’s misfortune, and feels a great sense of guilt about damaging the reliquary. Any offer of help, particularly to help find the missing villager or more generally to help bring the villagers back to piety and god-fearing behavior, is readily accepted — provided of course the characters do not themselves appear to be agents of the Devil. Father Herbert is more than willing to speak to the characters alone, and to give them some background on the village, its inhabitants, and his own situation. However, he may suspect outlandish characters, or characters who are pagan in appearance, of being involved in the disappearance of the villager. Herbert does not suspect that the reliquary is the cause of his problems, and does not want anyone to know that it is damaged. Despite this, he is very proud of it, and happily shows it to the characters, explaining its origin — so long as they do not touch it (the reliquary is positioned so that the missing gem cannot be seen). Attempts to handle or remove the reliquary will be opposed, unless the characters convince him that it is necessary, or that they can fix the broken gem. A Communication + Charm or Leadership + stress die against an Ease Factor of 18 is sufficient to convince him. If the characters appear particularly wealthy, he will ask if they can help replace or repair the gem and reliquary. This may give the characters a clue that they must repair the reliquary to stop the trapped demon. Father Herbert will not agree to any action that damages the reliquary, including any attempts to open it. If asked which saint’s relics the reliquary contains, Father Herbert dithers. Peter never knew, and was not sure of the name of the church that he stole it from. Most of the villagers, including Father Herbert, assume that it contains the relic of one of the Apostles, such as a finger bone or knuckle. Peter maintains that the relic is larger — the size of a hand or foot. The reliquary itself has never been opened, as the latch on the small door is bent. Herbert likes to think it is a relic of the Apostle Peter.''

===Investigations By Stealth===

''The characters may decide to sneak into the church to investigate the reliquary without the interference of Father Herbert. Gaining entrance to the church can be accomplished without much effort. The doors are not locked or barred, even at night, and the thick stone walls make it difficult for Father Herbert to hear anyone enter if he is sleeping''
''in the room off the aisle. A successful Quickness + Stealth + simple die versus an Ease Factor of 6 means that Father Herbert remains unaware of the characters entering the church.''

===The Broken Jewel===

''The broken reliquary gem is key to halting the demon’s corrupting powers. In order to find out that the gem is missing, the characters must have either examined the reliquary — it is obvious that a gem has been broken off — or have been confided in by Father Herbert. The gem is hidden under Father Herbert’s bed; the characters have several opportunities to try to get it. First, they could have convinced Father Herbert to let them examine or fix the reliquary, in which case he will retrieve the gem''
''for them. Second, they could use Mentem magic to read his mind and discover his role in damaging the reliquary and hiding the gem. Third, they could search the church while he is away from the church. If the characters search for the gem, a Perception + Awareness + simple die against an Ease Factor of 9 uncovers it beneath his bed.''

===The Altar and Reliquary===

''The altar is unremarkable. It is made of polished wood, and has several tarnished pewter candle sticks resting on it. The reliquary, which sits on the church’s altar, is about two feet tall and a foot wide. It is square, its four sides covered in intricate carvings and metal work. Most of the metal appears to be gold or silver, and there are gems and carved''

==The Reliquary==

''The object that is venerated as a reliquary is actually a powerful Hermetic device crafted to trap spirits, in particular demons. The reliquary has been enchanted into two parts — the main reliquary that traps the demon (Ensorcell the Luciferian Spirit) and a large gemstone embedded on its front (Pious Veil of Hermetic Might), and now broken off by Father Herbert, designed to suppress the demon’s powerful corruptive powers. Simply trapping this demon in the reliquary has greatly hindered it, as its weakness prevents it from affecting anything that is sealed or tied up. This means that, even with the loss of the gem, it cannot use its powers to open the reliquary. Note that the demon is trapped, not “bound” — it is merely physically restrained, rather than mystically linked to the reliquary.''

===Ensorcell the Luciferian Spirit===

''ReVi 45 Pen +42, Constant Effect R: Special, D: Sun, T: Ind This magical device traps any one''
''Infernal spirit within the reliquary, making it unable to move beyond the boundaries of the box. The effect is activated when the door is closed, and ended if the door is reopened. This effect cannot draw a spirit into the reliquary; the item’s creator used a spell for that. The effect must Penetrate, and thus can, normally, affect a creature with an Infernal Might of 41 or lower. However, both Magic Resistance and Penetration are affected by the local aura (ArM5, page 183); in a Divine or Magic aura, the affected Might is effectively increased by twice the aura, while in an Infernal aura it is decreased by twice the aura. The demon currently held is weak enough to be restrained in any Infernal aura, but the crafter was not sure of that. (Base 4 (by analogy with ReCo), +2 Special (based on Touch), +2 Sun; +1 2/day, +3 environmental trigger, +21 Penetration)''

===Pious Veil of Hermetic Might===

''PeVi 60 Pen +22, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind''
''This enchanted gem suppresses the supernatural powers of a single infernal creature touching it, up to level 20 (or powers from creatures with a Might score of 20 or less; see ArM5, page 191). The gem actually reaches the inside of the reliquary, through a tiny hole, thus touching the demon within. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; +1 2/day, +3 environmental trigger, +11 Penetration)''

===Seal Evil Within===

''ReTe 4 Pen 0, 1/day R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind This effect moves the metal of the reliquary, as if worked by a metalsmith, to seal the door shut. A Perception + Finesse roll by the person using the reliquary determines how elegant the seal appears. Although the magic is momentary, the metal remains sealed after it ends. The seal must be broken by mundane means, but the magic can seal it again. It is activated by closing the reliquary’s door and closing the latch. (Base 4)''
''ivory inlaid into it. It has Hermetic symbols of Rego, Perdo, and Vim worked into the intricate decorations, and also bears Christian symbols and iconography, which is why Father Herbert and many others believe it to be a reliquary. If the reliquary is moved from the village, the Infernal aura begins to slowly subside, at a rate of 1 level after a number of years equal to the level of the Infernal aura. This means that soon after the reliquary leaves the area, the Infernal aura diminishes to be equal to or less than the Dominion, and the effects of the Infernal aura cease.''

==Getting Possession of the Reliquary==

''The characters must gain possession of the reliquary before they can reaffix the broken gem. Father Herbert wants the reliquary repaired, but also wants assurances that it will be returned safely and quickly. Peter, however, will''
''not want the reliquary to leave the church or village, especially not in the hands of wizards. They are not receptive to the notion that the reliquary is the source of the village’s troubles — after all, it has been in the village for twenty years with no problem.''

===Theft===

''The characters could steal the reliquary from the church. This would be easily accomplished with the aid of magic, particularly invisibility spells. A missing reliquary is likely to raise the attention of others, as the villagers want it back, and because the reliquary is a particularly magnificent object. Father Herbert would raise the matter with his superior (and blame the thieves for the reliquary’s damage), and Peter may ask the local lord for assistance. There is a great deal of relic theft between churches and monasteries in Mythic Eu''

==The Demon==

''Order: Vessel of Iniquity Infernal Might: 20 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre –3, Com –2, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 3 (15) Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Guile; Hatred (Minor, Hermetic magi) Personality Traits: Hateful +6, Depraved +6, Treacherous +5, Deceptive +4 Reputations: Tainter of Fields +1 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7– 12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Awareness 6 (spirits), Guile 8+2 (betrayal) Powers: Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: The demon may shapeshift into''
''any human form it desires, and may even mimic people. Form of Wickedness, 3 points, Init 0, Mentem: This power allows the demon to materially embody lies and betrayal, causing the nearest 10 people to immediately succumb to the sin of Avarice. The affected people must make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to end the power’s hold (they may make one roll each hour). This form can only be maintained for 1 round (although the power lasts beyond that time). Taint the Lands of Adam, 10 points, Init +10, Vim: This power allows the demon to create Infernal auras around itself, and slowly spread that aura to the surrounding lands. The taint spreads five miles every month, and stops after two years. It cannot cross major landmarks, such as rivers, forests, mountains, or city walls (although streams and woods pose no hindrance). The Infernal aura also increases its rating slowly, starting at its center and increasing by 1 each month to a maximum of 4. Unlike most''
''Infernal auras, the aura created by the demon is a Perfidious aura, even in low rating areas. In other respects the aura acts as a normal Infernal aura, and can be increased (or decreased) through human agency; it increases at night, and decreases during religious events. Weakness: Ordering (the demon has no power over anything that is sealed or tied up, although it must be tightly and deliberately sealed). Vis: 4 pawns Mentem vis that coagulates as an oily, fatty lump about the size of a fist. Appearance: If it appears in its physical form, the demon appears as pure lies and deceit. This is simply a morass of matter and emotion (see Form of Wickedness power). The demon can also take the form of any person it desires (see Form of Man power).''
''These traits are included in the event that the characters release the demon from the reliquary. See Realms of Power: The Infernal for more information on the demon’s other powers.''
''rope however, so the characters could try to frame a nearby church or monastery. The characters may also leave a replica behind, so that the villagers believe that the reliquary is not missing. Again, Hermetic magic, such as Creo or Rego Imaginem, makes this easy, at least for a temporary solution.''

===Negotiation===

''The characters could try to convince Father Herbert to give up the reliquary. This could involve convincing him that the reliquary is the cause of the village’s troubles, or that the characters only want to repair the reliquary, or could involve Rego Mentem magic. Father Herbert does not want to give up the reliquary without good reason, but if the characters can demonstrate that repairing the reliquary is necessary, then Herbert consents. He may also consent to having the reliquary replaced by a similarly impressive item.''

==The Cult’s Lair==

''Michael and his infernal servants have set up their lair in a grotto beneath a hill not far from the village. The hill is avoided by the villagers because, many generations ago, it was the location of a pagan site of worship. The pagan remains have long since been destroyed, but the grotto beneath the hill remains. The cave complex has three caverns, and until the infernalists arrived was used as shelter by nearby sheep. A map of the complex is provided.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Opening the Reliquary==

''The characters may decide to try to open the reliquary. Attempts to open it are initially fruitless, and a Perception + Craft: Woodwork or Metalwork + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9 reveals that, although it looks like the reliquary has a door, the metal decoration seals it shut; the latch is largely for show. Opening the box would require breaking it open. Doing so would destroy the item and release the demon, so characters with Common Sense, Intuition, or Visions receive a warning that this would be a bad idea.''

|}
''pressive item.''
''The outer cavern is largely empty. The entry to the next cavern requires some climbing up the rock face, and a tight squeeze through a hole (characters with Size +1 are able to uncomfortably enter, but not while wearing bulky equipment or armor). The second cavern is much smaller than the outer one, and is where the cult performs their infernal rituals. Sheep and other animal carcasses litter the floor, and there are other trappings of rituals – a debased altar, dried blood and gore, and grubby cloths on the wall marked with diabolical symbols. The inner chamber leads down further under the hill. A winding passage leads to the inner cavern, a cramped space devoid of all natural light. Animal fat candles burn most of the time, and animal skins and straw cover the floor. This is where the cult sleeps, with Benedict and Maria sleeping closest to the entry, to block the wind. The infernal aura in the first chamber is level 2, and in the second and inner chambers it is level 3.''

===Searching for the Cult’s Lair===

''The characters may search for the cult’s lair to find the missing villager, or suspect that they are the source of the Infernal aura. They may have been led by Peter or another villager, or be following tracks. If the characters have an Arcane Connection to the villager, an appropriate spontaneous Intellego Corpus spell unerringly locates him, in the cult’s lair. The outer grotto is partly hidden by the vegetation, and Michael has made no real effort to hide it. A Perception + Awareness, Hunt, or Survival + simple die roll against an Ease Factor of 9 will find it. If the characters are following tracks, then they need only beat an Ease Factor of 6. Climbing to the lair’s entrance is simple and requires no roll. Should the characters fail the roll and not find the opening to the outer cavern, they may be able to use magic''
''— Intellego Terram, for example, reveals the rough layout of the grotto complex. Abilities like Dowsing are also useful; a Perception + Dowsing + aura + stress die against an Ease Factor of 9 reveals the grotto’s entrance.''

===The Victim…===

''For the villager, kidnapped by Michael, it is too late. Michael already killed Conrad in a grisly ritual shortly after kidnapping him. The ritual has helped strengthen the Infernal aura in the caves, which has risen to level 3 (from level 2). If the characters have an Arcane Connection to the victim, and use Intellego Corpus magic to detect whether he is still alive, they discover that he is alive until the early morning of the day that the characters arrive in the village, after which he is killed.''

===Finding Maria===

''On entering the grotto, the characters find Maria — Michael and Benedict are not there. If the players’ rolls are unsuccessful, or if the storyguide wants to avoid the possibility of a failed roll bringing the scenario to a halt, then the characters hear a sound from within the hill that leads them to the entrance. The sound comes from Maria’s crying, as she weeps from desperation. She is terrified of the characters initially, particularly if they are violent or appear frightening, or have The Gift. If the characters are friendly towards her, she tells them that she is herself the victim of Michael and Benedict. She readily betrays them, explaining who they are, what they look like, and why they are in the area. She knows that they are looking for a powerful demon trapped nearby, and are using her ability to sense holiness and unholiness to find it. If the characters are hostile or violent towards her, she tries to escape, and will not give them any information.''

===Where Are Michael and Benedict?===

''Michael and Benedict meanwhile have been sneaking around nearby, searching for a sheep to steal, sacrifice, and eat. They are also using the opportunity to scout out the village to identify another villager to kidnap. Both infernalists have seen the characters approach the hill, unless the characters have traveled stealthily (in which case, compare the cultist’s Awareness total against the player’s characters’ Stealth total), or used magic to become invisible.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Option: Saving Conrad==

''At the storyguide’s option, the players’ characters may be able to race against time to save the kidnapped Conrad. The villager is being held by Michael in preparation for a sacrifice to the trapped demon. With this option, Conrad is tied up in the inner chamber of the cave. He has been badly beaten, with several Light and Medium Wounds, and suffers a –15 penalty to his actions.''

|}

===Confronting the Infernalists===

''With Maria’s help, the characters should be able to track down Michael and Benedict. If Michael and Benedict saw the characters enter the grotto, they are on their guard. They wait to see what the characters do, hiding some way off. A Perception + Awareness + stress die against Michael and Benedict’s Quickness + Stealth + stress die reveals their hiding location. If the characters are being stealthy, then Maria does her best to betray the characters and reveal their location to her tormentors. If Michael is given a reason to suspect the characters are wizards, he does his best to avoid a confrontation that he does not believe he can win. However, he has no qualms about sending Benedict to his death. If the characters give chase, then Benedict tries to hold the characters off while Michael summons his malefic winds to make an escape. If the characters are able to give chase with their own flying magic, then there could well be an impressive battle in the skies above the village. If the characters look innocuous or vulnerable, both Michael and Benedict attack them, in the hope of overwhelming and subduing them. Michael does not want to anger powerful wizards, so is conciliatory if given reason to believe that the characters''
''are such. Unfortunately for Michael, he bears the taint of evil, so most characters who interact with him will see him as being diabolically aligned. Should Michael escape, he returns to the village a few nights later to continue trying to kidnap villagers to sacrifice, so as to raise the Infernal aura.''

===Leading To the Reliquary===

''Maria possesses an ability to detect evil, and if she is taken close to the church and the reliquary, she senses the presence of the trapped demon. Maria may have revealed to the characters that she has been used by Michael to find the demon, or Michael may have revealed this. Appropriate Mentem magic also reveals this.''

==Repairing the Reliquary==

''Hermetic characters who see the reliquary notice its Hermetic nature sooner or later. They are likely to guess that it is linked to the Infernal aura in some manner, although they may not guess immediately. The reliquary is inscribed with''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Researching the Reliquary’s History==

''Characters who get the chance to examine the reliquary in a Hermetic laboratory are almost certain to become suspicious. Any magus who could create the effect that suppresses the demon’s powers could easily destroy the demon with Demon’s Eternal Oblivion, and even if he had to create the spell it would take less time than enchanting the object. Even characters who do not examine the reliquary in such detail could make worrying inferences from their knowledge of Magic Theory. They may, therefore, want to research the item’s background. To research this information, the character must make an Intelligence + Order of Hermes Lore + simple dice against an Ease Factor of 21. This total can be modified depending on the size of the covenant’s library: +5 for a peerless collection on''
''Order of Hermes Lore; +4 for a specialized collection; +3 for a collection with a particular interest in the history of the Order of Hermes; + 2 for a library with no particular interest in the Order of Hermes; and +1 for a library with few books on the subject. (See Covenants, page 98 for more information on research.) The results of the research, should the character succeed against the Ease Factor, reveals that the reliquary was crafted a hundred years ago, by a Verditius magus called John Philosymeon, famed for his pugilistic attitude towards the Infernal and mastery of the Art of Rego. There is, however, no mention of this reliquary; the characters must rely on descriptions of John’s sigil and the like. The magus himself does not appear in many records because towards the end of his life he became''
''corrupted by the Infernal — John’s own filia, Irene, Marched him — and his Hermetic descendants wanted to blot out the stain on their lineage. The reliquary was stored in a church near Constantinople, surrounded by holy relics, because Irene had no idea what sort of demon he had trapped in it. If she had known, she would have prepared Perdo Vim magics and destroyed the creature. The creator’s Hermetic descendants — the Confraternity of Irene — still exist in the Tribunal of Thebes, where they have given up most of the anti-infernal lore and focused instead on crafting beautiful art of unparalleled quality (see Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 122 for details on this confraternity). Bringing up John Philosymeon’s creations and history with the Irenians could invite bitter retribution.''

|}
''Hermetic symbols of Rego, Perdo, and Vim. The reliquary was damaged when Father Herbert dropped it and broke off the gem that suppressed the trapped demon’s corrupting aura. This alone would not have mattered had not the reliquary been moved from the high-Dominion aura where it was originally hidden, to the low-Dominion aura in the village. This has allowed the seeping Infernal aura to build up beneath the Dominion, and eventually overwhelm it. If the gem is replaced in the reliquary, the demon’s power is suppressed once more, and the aura begins to dissipate. Rego Terram craft magic can fix the problem easily, although the characters might be nervous about leaving such an item in the village. If someone skilled in metalwork examines the gem and the place it came from, they realize that, although it really has been broken, it was originally designed to be removed and replaced at will. It hadn’t been removed for decades, however, which may be why another part of the setting broke. It would take a mundane craftsman a few days to repair the damage; doing it with Hermetic magic requires a Perception + Finesse roll against an Ease Factor of 12, higher if the characters want the repair to be elegant, 18 if they want it to look like it was never broken. It is trivial to fix the gem so that it cannot be removed as part of the normal process of repair.''

==Conclusion==

''A few elements of this story can have larger consequences for your saga.''

===What To Do With the Reliquary?===

''The characters may have removed the reliquary from the village, investigated it, and discovered its purpose as a prison. However, they have no more idea as to the nature of the demon within than Irene did, and messing with an item made by an infernalist magus could be very dangerous. Although, in fact, the characters probably can destroy the demon, they do not necessarily know that. If they do, however, this problem can be resolved fairly easily. Even if they have not had a chance to investigate it, they are aware of its link to Hermetic magic and the Infernal, and may be reluctant to leave it on the altar in a village church. They might also be, wisely, reluctant to keep it in the cov''
''enant. Thus, even once the immediate problem is solved, the reliquary can still cause the characters significant trouble.''

===Dealing With the Infernalists===

''If the infernalists plaguing the village haven’t been dealt with, they may come back to haunt the covenant. Michael is after the power of the imprisoned demon, and may follow the reliquary to the covenant. He could become a recurring villain, and cause continuing problems at the covenant. Alternatively, Michael may remain at the village to torment the villagers. He can prevent the decrease of the Infernal aura through further corrupting acts, such as ritual murders or other heinous sins. This would keep the high Infernal aura intact, perpetuating the village’s problems. Michael has the dark knowledge to keep the powers of Hell satiated, and may even attract other diabolical powers to the village if he is not stopped.''

==Rewards==

''The following benefits might result from this scenario.''

==The Reliquary==

''The reliquary is a powerful invested device, and the characters may end up with control of it. Despite the trouble it may cause, creative characters could parley it into political advantage of some sort.''

==Good Relations with the Village==

''The villagers, particularly Father Herbert, will be grateful for assistance in resolving their many problems. If the characters have found the kidnapped villager and returned his body for a Christian burial, the characters also receive gratitude from Baldwin and his family. Although the good will of a village of peasants may not rate highly, a village that is sympathetic to the covenant may be a good source of future food supplies.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
