''The Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon are a group of warrior monks whose pledge to defend Christendom has led them to become one of the most powerful orders in Mythic Europe. In the 13th century, the Order of the Temple''
''has over 7,000 knights, brother-sergeants, officials, and priests, and more than 800 castles, preceptories, and chapterhouses. They stand above lay and clerical authority alike, answering to the pope alone. In Mythic Europe, the Knights Templar are''
''pious monks, bankers, builders of temples and fortresses, diplomats and advisors, merchants and land-owners, and defenders of the Holy Land. This chapter details the history and organization of the Poor Knights, and advice on how to play a Templar character. It also provides some guidelines on adapting the information to play members of other military orders.''
''The Poor Knights''
''The story of the Templars begins in Jerusalem, following the Holy City’s bloody capture. Nine knights led by Hugh of Payns and Godfrey of St-Omer proposed a community of knights to protect the pilgrims traveling to the Christian sites in the Latin kingdoms. In 1119, the nine knights took their vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience before the Patriarch of Jerusalem. The King of Jerusalem granted them living quarters on the southern edge of Temple Mount — the site known as “Templum Salomonis,” or the Temple of Solomon. From this they derived their name: the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon. The Poor Knights came under powerful patronage. In 1125 the order was the recipient of boons and gifts from many European magnates, and four years later at the Council of Troyes they officially received their rule. Many present at Troyes saw the order as a means to revitalize Christendom, while others saw the Poor Knights as the defenders of the Holy''
''Land. The influential Bernard of Clairvaux was instrumental in gaining the Templar’s acceptance by laity and Churchmen alike. Pope Innocent II issued a papal bull of privileges in 1136, which declared the Templars be “regarded especially as part of God’s knighthood.” This bull, known as the Omne datum optimum, established the new Knights Templar as exempt from all authority except that of the papacy itself, as well as giving them the right to have their own priesthood.''
''The Fifth Crusade''
''The Fifth Crusade began in 1217 and ends 1221. Its main target is Egypt, the seat of Muslim power in the Middle East. It was not until after Innocent III’s death in 1216 that his constant planning for this crusade was realized. Honorius III directed the two grand masters of the Templars and Hospitallers to meet with the crusade leaders, Andrew of Hungary and Leopold of Austria. In 1218, the assembled armies sailed from Acre to Damietta. A year later, after the death of the Templar Grand Master, the''
''crusaders captured the city, ignoring the sultan’s offer to give up Jerusalem in return for peace. The offer was refused on the advice of the Templars, who stated that Jerusalem could not be held without possession of the lands south of the Holy City. By 1220, the crusade is in danger of fall''
''ing apart, and the few remaining crusader strongholds in Palestine are under increased pressure. Money is running low and German forces have not yet arrived. In July 1220, a delegation of Templars and Hospitallers carries Pope Honorius III’s financial contribution to the Fifth Crusade from Rome.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''The Templars and the Crusades''
''The Templars were one of three major standing crusading armies, which came to the aid of the Christian rulers of the Holy Land, and later aided Christian kings’ efforts to recapture Jerusalem.''

===The Second and Third Crusades===

''In the Second and Third Crusades, the Templars took leading roles. The Second Crusade (1147 – 1149) saw the Poor Knights granted the right by Pope Eugenius to wear the red crusading cross over their hearts. The crusade leaders relied heavily on their advice, and by the time King Louis of France reached Antioch they had effectively taken over command of the crusade altogether. The Third Crusade (1187 – 1192)''
''also saw the Templars work closely with the crusade leaders. After the humiliating loss at the Battle of Hattin and the subsequent loss of Jerusalem, the Templars and Hospitallers augmented the crusader kings’ troops. Grand Master Robert of Sabloel was raised to that position by King Richard of England, after which the Templars purchased the recently conquered island of Cyprus from the king (they sold the island a few years later to Guy of Lusignan, the erstwhile King of Jerusalem and vassal of King Richard).''

===The Fourth Crusade===

''The Templars were only marginally involved in the notorious Fourth Crusade (1202 – 1204); a few senior Templars and''
''Hospitallers advised the crusade leaders, and even supported the subjugation of the Byzantine Empire. After the capture of Constantinople, the Templars took part in the subjugation of Greece that ended in 1210.''

===The Albigensian Crusade===

''The Templars have not been actively involved in the Albigensian Crusade (1209 – 1229); throughout the conflict they have maintained effective neutrality. Fighting heretics is not a duty of the Templars. In fact, both Cathars and crusaders at times were aided and shielded in Templar houses. Neither the pope nor Simon of Montefort, the crusade leader, petitioned the Poor Knights for assistance against the Cathars.''
''Templars and Scandal''
''The Templars are unique among the monastic orders in being free of scandal. The strict discipline and rule of the Templars means that most infractions and complaints are heard and dealt with internally. They are relatively free of rumors of womanizing, gambling, and''
''drinking, especially when compared with the scandals that beset other orders, such as the Dominicans, Franciscans, Teutons, and Hospitallers. Similarly, there are no scandals regarding homosexuality, as there were with the Hospitallers and other monastic orders.''
''The Order Ends''
''If your saga follows history, the Templars continue to grow in power, influence, prestige, and wealth throughout the 13th century and very early 14th, until 1307. In that year, the French king arrests all Templars in his domain, and subsequently many Templars con''
''fess to heresy and blasphemy. In 1312, the pope dissolves the Knights Templar; most brothers join other crusading orders or become monks. Of course, Mythic Europe’s future is not written in stone, and the fate of the Knights Templar is by no means certain.''

|}
''Templar Endowments''
''The Templars have a grand history of endowments from the lords of Mythic Europe, and rapidly became one of the wealthiest organizations in the West. From the mid-1100s, the Templars developed an extensive network of property. Since the Council of Troyes, kings, dukes, and barons have donated vast sums of money, large tracts of land, and precious goods to the Knights Templar. Those who join the ranks of the Poor Knights are required to swear an oath of poverty and hand over all their worldly possessions to the order. Confreres and consoeurs (associate brothers and sisters of the order) also hand over significant portions of their es''
''tates, both upon gaining membership and upon their deaths. Indeed, it is common in Mythic Europe for a dying noble to “give” himself to the order in the last few days of his life, so as to do penance for his sins (this was''
''also a common practice in other religious orders). The Templars then receive some or all of his property, bury the lord in their church, and have their brother-priests say prayers for his soul. Donations are made by all kinds of people from all walks of life — from a few coins, small parcels of land, a horse, or armor, to tracts of land, holdings, farms, and even villages, as well as tax exemptions.''
''Templars in England''
''Since the first visit by Hugh of Payns to London in 1128, the Templars have had a chapterhouse in London. The order received the patronage of powerful and influential lords. They were entrusted with maintaining several castles for Henry II during marriage negotiations, and successfully persuaded Thomas Becket to accept the Constitutions of Clarendon. Under King John, the Templar Commander Aymeric of St. Maur was personal envoy for the king. Aymeric advised King John during his dispute with the pope, and advised him to sign the Magna Carta at Runnymede. In 1220, the Templars continue to hold a prominent position in the court of King Henry III. While the kingdom is effectively ruled by regents, the Templars continue to maintain the king’s treasury, oversee his navy, and act as the king’s almoner (official responsible for distributing charitable donations to the poor). They have also recently lent the crown a great deal of money, to help stabilize the rule of the young king. The influential Aymeric has been replaced by Alan Marcell, who is one of the king’s chief military and''
''Papal Privileges''
''In 1139, Pope Innocent II issued the bull Omne datum optimum:''
''•	 The order may keep the booty it captures from Muslims. •	 The order’s rule of life under the master is confirmed. •	 The brothers may elect their master without interference from anyone else. •	 The customs and observances of the order cannot be infringed upon or changed except by the master and with the consent of the wiser part of the chapter of brothers. •	 The brothers should not give oaths of loyalty or homage or any oaths to anyone outside the order. •	 They need not pay tithes on the produce of their own lands. •	 Those priests who stay a year and are approved of by the brothers may take the profession of the order, swearing to obey the master, and remain in the order. They will have the same support and clothes as the brothers except for their priestly vestments. They are only responsible for “care of souls” as far as the order requests. They are not to be subject to anyone outside the order. •	 The order can have its clergy or''
''dained by any bishop. •	 The pope lays down the procedure for the admittance of priests to the Templar order. •	 The brothers may build oratories wherever they live, and they can hear Divine Office there; those who die as brothers of the order can be buried there. •	 These papal privileges and protection extend to cover their household and servants.''
''In 1144, Pope Celestine II proclaimed the Milites Templi, describing the Templars as defenders of pilgrims and comparing them to the Maccabees. He granted remission of one seventh of the penance of anyone who joins the order, and urged bishops and archbishops to collect money for the Poor Knights. Celestine also granted the Templars the authority to collect donations from churches, villages, or cities under interdict. Pope Eugenius III built upon this, with Milites Dei in 1145, clarifying the rights granted to the Templars relating to the authority of Templar clergy. This papal ruling states that brother-priests must be properly ordained and have permission from their bishop to join the Templars.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Grand Masters of the Temple of Solomon''
''Hugh of Payns (1119-1136) Robert of Craon (1136-1149) Everard of Barres (1149-1152) – retired Bernard of Trémélay (1152-1153) Andrew of Montbard (1153-1156) Bertrand of Blanquefort (1156-1169) Philip of Nablus (1169-1171) – retired Odo of Saint-Amand (1171-1179)''
''Arnold of Torroja (1180-1184) Gérard of Ridefort (1185-1189) Robert of Sabloel (1191-1193) Gilbert Erail (1194-1200) Philip of Plessiez (1201-1209) William of Chartres (1210-1219) Peter of Montaigu (1219-1232)''

|}
''diplomatic advisors. Aymeric continues in a senior role with the Templars elsewhere in Europe. The English province of the order holds land throughout England — in Essex, Kent, Warwickshire, Worcestershire, Shropshire, Oxfordshire, Cornwall, Lincolnshire, and Yorkshire — and in most cases the landholdings are extensive. In England, the Templars divide their holdings into revenue districts called baillia, with each governed by its own local commander. The English Master is based in London at the New Temple. In the future (if your saga follows history), the Templars gradually fall out of favor with King Henry III, and by the 1250s they are replaced in most of their positions by Hospitallers, who are generally seen as more educated and better administrators.''
''Templars in France''
''The Templars in France are at the centers of power, and own and administer huge swathes of land and garrison enormous castles. In Paris, the Temple acts as the official treasury of King Philip II, taking in receipts of taxation and organizing payments to officials, soldiers, and so on, as well as storing important documents, such as treaties and wills. When he is in Paris, the king and his family often prefer to stay in rooms at the Paris Temple. For more information about the Paris Temple, see The Lion and the Lily, page 80. One the most senior advisors to King Philip is Brother Haimard, the treasurer of the French Templars, and treasurer to the French Crown. The Templars relay news and information to the King from the brother-knights across France. Brother Haimard, if your saga follows the course of history, will execute the wills of both King Philip and Queen Ingebourg in 1222, and''
''will act as treasurer to the French Crown until his death in 1227. Many of the most senior Templars are personal friends of the king and other lords, and were vassals prior to joining the''
''order; King Philip thus likewise has significant influence over the French Templars and is effectively able to appoint Templars to senior posts across his domain. The Templars act as treasurers to other great nobles across France. The Templars, particularly the many brother-sergeants, are a part of the growing class of literati taking over the administration of the royal government. The Templars are seen as loyal, godly, honest, and lacking in self-interest, not to mention possessing marvelous military skills. In France, they act almost as an arm of the royal government.''
''Story Seeds''

===The Templars’ Helper===

''The Templar delegation sent from Pope Honorius believes there to be no way they can win the Fifth Crusade without gaining a significant advantage over their Muslim enemies. They know that the sultan of Egypt commands the services of supernatural beings and the mysterious sorcerors who bind them. Acting on the orders of  Brother Haimard, treasurer of the Paris Temple, the Templar delegation is authorized to seek out magical aid and bring it to Egypt to assist the crusaders. The Templar commander in charge of the delegation, Brother Oliver of Paderborn, approaches the players’ covenant for assistance, offering great rewards for cooperation and magic that will defeat the sultan. Will the characters assist the Templars, either personally or with magical items, and what of the Code?''

===The Hermetic Confrater===

''A once-powerful archmage of the Order of Hermes, approaching Final Twilight, decides to become a Templar confrater. In doing so he hands over his enormous Hermetic wealth to the Poor Knights, including his vast magical library, enchanted items, and land. The covenant (which could be the player’s covenant) is less than happy''
''about this, and once the Quaesitors discover his plans, they worry that secrets of the Order of Hermes could end up with the Templars. His former covenant-mates, so as to avoid sanction for interfering with mundanes, seek out the assistance of the players’ characters to retrieve the magical items they see as rightfully theirs. Does the Code of Hermes recognize the archmage’s decision? As a confrater, is he now a mundane? Under the Code, do his magical belongings still belong to him, or are they now the property of the Templars?''

===The Enchanted Mill===

''Before he retired, the former English Commander Aymeric of St. Maur ordered the construction of a new, massive mill in London. Now it is nearing completion in record time, and when constructed will be one of the largest sources of wealth for the Poor Knights. For the past year, Templars and their servants have been seen trekking around England’s mythic sites, many of which are seasonal vis sources, and many seem to have been harvested, possibly by the Templars. Have the Templars discovered a way to sense and use vis to help in the construction of their mill, or are they being assisted? Rumor has it that one covenant’s vis sources have remained untouched.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''English Templar Commanders''
''Richard of Hastings (1160-1171) Richard Mallebeench (1172-1180) Geoffrey Fitz Stephen (1180-1185) William of Newenham (1185-1200)''
''Thomas Beard (1200-1200) Aymeric of St. Maur (1200-1220) Alan Marcell (1220-1229)''

|}
''They administer many castles on behalf of the king and other great nobles, typically in trust or when a fort is disputed between heirs or rivals, and periodically act as intermediaries between warring nobles in France, with the authority of the king.''
''Templars in Iberia''
''The Templars have been involved in the Christian Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula since the Second Crusade, when Christians in Iberia used the opportunity to attack and depose their Muslim rivals, and begin repopulating the area under Christian rule. In addition to supporting the Reconquista with direct military aid, the Templars aid the local Iberian nobles by colonizing marginal lands too dangerous or risky to be developed by the lords themselves. The Templars build or expand fortifications in these areas, and attract settlers and farmers into areas under great risk of attack by Muslim raiders and other bandits. Despite their many domains, the Templars are not present in the Iberian Peninsula in great numbers. Their real strength is their ability to mobilize at a moment’s notice and remain in the field for a long time, unlike the secular nobles in the region, who struggle to field an army for more than forty days or during harvest time. Iberia is notable for having a large number of sisters and consoeurs (female associate members) housed in Catalonia, where they enjoy extensive property rights.''

===Templars in Portugal===

''The earliest donation in Iberia of land and castles to the Templars was in Portu''
''gal. The Templars were actively involved in military operations, assisting in assaults on Muslim-held towns. The Portuguese Templars established their main chapterhouse in the castle Cera above the town Tomar, which they themselves founded. In 1170, the Templars received the right to keep one-third of all land they could acquire and settle. In 1220, the Templars remain very close to the Christian rulers of Portugal, with many of the lords considering themselves “brothers,” and some even possessing associate membership of the order. This, of course, means that the''
''Templars continue to receive many gifts of land and other resources. There are major Templar fortresses in Soure, Pombal, and Tomar. If your saga follows history, in the near future there will be an attempt by Afonso, Count of Boulogne, to overthrow King Sancho II (1223-1245). The Templar commander of Portugal, Brother Martim Martins, a childhood friend of Sancho, will support the king. This support will cost the order dearly, as Afonso’s rebellion is successful, and by 1301 they lose their rights over Idanha and Salvaterra.''

===Templars in Aragon===

''In Aragon, the Templars have been present since 1130, supporting Ramon Berengeur II, Count of Barcelona and Marquis of Provence. Ramon himself became a confrere of the Templars, and gave the Poor Knights the castle of Granyena. Other lords in the area made donations,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seeds''

===Stolen Wealth===

''After an Infernalist makes a deal with a powerful False God for untold wealth, a Templar priory near the troupe’s covenant finds that all of its treasures have been stolen. Unsurprisingly, the local commander suspects that he has been robbed by the covenant. Can the characters convince the commander that they are innocent, and can they assist him in locating the true villain?''

===The Greed of Haimard===

''Brother Hairmard is well aware of the existence of the Order of Hermes (although not of its inner workings) and knows that Hermetic magic is capable of producing enormous quantities of material wealth. He is also familiar with the concept of devaluing gold and other precious metal. However, he''
''plots to create other forms of wealth — grain and cloth — to sell at the fairs of France. All he needs is a Hermetic supplier of magically created crops, cotton, and wool. He is unlikely to regard the Code as a good excuse for not helping him.''

===Aiding the Reconquista===

''The Templars in Iberia are on a nearconstant war footing, and are slowly building a fleet to combat the presence of pirates. Stephen of Belmonte hears that Hermetic magic could be greatly advantageous in his crusade effort, and sends out a team of brother-knights and sergeants to find Hermetic magi. He wants magical weapons and ships. If your troupe’s characters refuse to help, they may soon find their less-scrupulous Hermetic rivals assisted by the political clout and wealth of Templars.''
''Templars and Demonic Wealth of Nations''
''The great stores of wealth protected by the Templars are an ideal source of stolen wealth for the demonic False Gods (see Realms of Power: The Infernal, page 37). While Templar storehouses are often targets of the False Gods, they receive''
''some protection thanks to the Dominion that shrouds their preceptories, as well as intervention by patron saints and guardian angels. The relics that are often stored alongside mundane treasurers also ward against greedy demons.''

|}
''including the castle of Barberà. These donations were made primarily to convince the Templars to actively support the lords militarily and to enforce the law in dangerous border areas. After the death of King Alfonso I, the Templars received great swathes of land and resources — enough for them to afford to be militarily involved in Barcelona-Aragon. The Templars in Aragon are entitled to a tenth of all rents, a fifth of the booty from every expedition, a fifth of the land captured from Muslims, and numerous castles including Monzón and Montjoy. They also play a prominent role in advising the king, and nominally form a part of the king’s army. The various Templar commanders are typically related to the great lords of the area, and Templars sit on most noble advisory councils. If your saga follows history, under King James I of Aragon (1213–1276), the Poor Knights, Hospitallers, and native military orders play a vital role in the attempts to capture the Balearic Islands of Majorca and Minorca, and in Valencia. Although the Templar and Hospitaller masters sit on James’ private advisory council, the Templar commander, Stephen of Belmonte, is far less close to King James than the Hospitaller commander, Hugh of Forcalquier.''
''Templars in Germany and Eastern Europe''
''The Templars’ role in Germany and the pagan lands of Eastern Europe is at its formative stage. The order has only just acquired its first significant holdings in Germany, in Thuringia and Austria, due to the patronage of those lords who participated in the crusades. The Templars also received some donations from the emperor, Frederick II Hohenstaufen, although not enough for the order to establish itself in the emperor’s territories. Relations with Frederick are generally cordial, despite the emperor’s deteriorating relations with the pope. Nevertheless, there is conflict in the Emperor’s lands in Sicily, where he is attempting to reclaim royal lands possessed by the Poor Knights''
''(and other religious orders). The Templars have long received exemption from paying royal dues, denying Frederick II a great deal of income. Many Christian lords in areas such as Lower Silesia, Poland, and Eastern Germany also give donations to the Templars, but they have no real military''
''presence in these areas in 1220. In the next few decades, should your saga follow history, the Templars follow the Teutons into Eastern Europe, establishing preceptories and fortresses in Bohemia and Moravia at Templeštejn and Čejkovice, Prussia at Tempelburg and Łuków, as well as Hungary at Esztergom and Egyházasfalu. Their main role will be to protect Christian colonizers, who start to settle the great primeval forests of Hungary, Poland and Russia. Over these years, the Teutons are both allies and rivals.''
''Templars in Italy''
''In central Italy, the Templars are particularly well established, possessing over twenty churches and preceptories in the''
''area. Some of the Templar chapels are starting to become sites visited by pilgrims, and most of the Templar chapterhouses in Italy are attractively decorated with frescos depicting victories in the crusades, aspects of Templar daily life, or images from saints’ lives. Additionally, many of the churches throughout Italy receive funding from the Templars for renovations and repairs. These great Templar churches possess vast agricultural estates. If your saga follows history, by the 1250s and 1260s the Templars start to become prominent in the flagellant movement (a movement of pious Christians who believed that the Last Judgement was nigh and purged themselves of sin by publicly weeping and flagellating themselves), led by papal chamberlain and Templar Brother Bonvicino. Most of the major naval cities in Italy house a Templar commandery, where they — like the other crusading orders — assist pilgrims, recruit soldiers, and funnel supplies to the Holy Land. In cities such as Venice, Messina, Bari, Taranto, and Genoa, the Templars own mercantile interests and provide loans to merchant families. In the past they have done deals with merchant princes who have relationships with Muslim traders, especially those in Egypt. Since the start of the Fifth Crusade such trades have ceased. The Templar commanders in Italy often become embroiled in local disputes, especially those involving the pope. They are very prominent in the papal court, advising the pope on a range of military, financial, and diplomatic matters. Senior Templar commanders in Italy are starting to intervene in Ecclesiastical politics, undermining hostile or critical bishops and cardinals in favor of their own supporters. A Templar representative is stationed at the papal curia in Rome semi-permanently, and he actively intervenes with the pope in the interests of the order. Debate is occurring at the general chapter as to whether the Templars should station a permanent ambassador with the pope.''
''The Church Templars in the Holy Land''
''Since the recapture of Jerusalem by Saladin, the Poor Knights have lost most of their holdings in the Holy Land. Nevertheless, they have chapterhouses in all major towns in the crusader states, and occupy many fortresses. Many of the castles that they control in the Holy Land were given or sold to them because the Christian lord did not have the resources to garrison it himself. In the Holy Land the Poor Knights work closely with the area’s Christian rulers — especially the King of Jerusalem and the new Prince of Antioch. The''
''Poor Knights are key military advisors to the King of Jerusalem and the other Latin lords of the Holy Land. They regularly engage in their own military actions and raids. Most of the Templar raids are offensive in nature, rather than defensive, their object being to capture animals, people, and other booty that can be turned into wealth (such as ransom). Apart from Acre and Antioch, the other significant Templar property in the Holy Land is Cyprus, where the Templars have owned large parts of the island since it was captured by King Richard. The Templars are embroiled in the dispute between the Angevin and Lusignan families, both of whom claim the''
''throne of the Kingdom of Jerusalem. The Templars’ closeness to the Angevins puts them in conflict with the Lusignan family, which rules Cyprus. They also regularly interfere in succession disputes with crusader lords and other Christian kingdoms, especially Armenia.''

===Templars in Acre===

''The port of Acre, on the bay of Haifa, is the center of Templar power and the location of their central chapterhouse. The Templars have forts and properties in the lands surrounding Acre, as well as many interests within the city, including at the shipyards. Acre became the home of the Templars after the loss of Jerusalem and the city’s capture by King Richard. Acre is also the base of most of the other crusading orders, including the Hospitallers and the Order of Saint Lazarus. The bishop of Acre, James of Vitry (1216-1228), is a close ally. The Templar castle in Acre is home to the grand master, the commander of the land of Jerusalem and the other great officers of the order. All of the order’s records, as well as its many grand relics, are stored here. For more information on Acre, see City and Guild, page 34.''

===Templars in Antioch===

''In 1219 Bohemond, Count of Tripoli, reclaimed the city of Antioch after a protracted dispute with Leon of Armenia. Leon had in 1211 declared war on the Templars, after a decades-long succession conflict between the Poor Knights and the kingdom of Armenia. The war continued for two years, as the Templars tried to capture and recapture castles along the coast. The Templars currently support Bohemond, who is still in dispute with the Armenians. The Armenians are themselves supported by the Hospitallers.''

===Templars in Greece===

''The Templars have only recently arrived in the Latin kingdoms of Greece, and although they nominally defend''
''the Latin rulers of Greece, they largely act as free agents. There are only a few Templar preceptories in Greece, with provinces in each of the Latin kingdoms. Their presence is largely due to the new Latin lords of Greece granting them great estates and benefits; they have sent representatives to these places to defend their interests. Overall, the area is not one of great concern for the Templars, and they have little time for Latin Christian disputes with Greek Christians. The local commander is seriously giving thought to selling back a lot of the land to local Greeks, rather than incur ill will over their occupation.''
''Other Military Orders''
''Mythic Europe has myriad military orders of crusading monks. While they all have a unique history and culture, most are similar to the Templars in organization and mission. Only the Hospitallers come close to rivalling the Templars in size, power, influence, and wealth. The smaller military orders play a supporting role to the Templars in the Holy Land, and are minor rivals for donations in Europe. The Templar Virtues and Flaws (see later in this chapter) can easily be adapted for the other military orders.''

===Hospitallers===

''The Order of the Knights of Saint John — known as the Hospitallers — began as a charitable hospital that cared for pilgrims in Jerusalem before the First Crusade. Their involvement in the military protection of the crusader kingdoms started in the 12th century, around 1144 when the King of Jerusalem granted the order the fortress Krak de Chevaliers. Their focus on helping the sick and poor in the kingdoms of Europe and the Holy Land ensures that they enjoy enormous good will, but also diverts enormous resources from the efforts to recapture Jerusalem. The Hospitallers are mostly drawn from Spanish and Italian knights, whereas the Templars draw most of their recruits''
''from France and French-speaking England. However, their renown is growing in France, and by 1220 they are starting to rival the Templars in recruitment and donations. The Hospitallers’ activities closely resemble the Templars’ — they participated in the crusades, protected the Holy Land, and have the same papal and other privileges as the Poor Knights. The Templars and Hospitallers are rivals and allies. They engage in fierce competition over the limited resources in the Holy Land, with the disputes often requiring papal intervention. Another cause of tension in financial matters is the Hospitallers’ support for the Genoese; the Templars support the Venetians. Unlike the Templars, however, the Hospitallers have succumbed to scandal, with cases of Hospitaller brothers keeping concubines, living extravagantly, and regularly interfering in secular and Ecclesiastic affairs. When criticism and outrage grows too great for local Hospitallers, they retreat to their hospitals and increase their charitable activities. For more information about how Hospitallers can be used in your saga, see “The Hospital’s Due,” Chapter 5 in Tales of Mythic Europe.''

===Teutons===

''Formed after the Third Crusade in around 1198, the Teutonic Knights are primarily a German order dedicated to protecting German pilgrims. They originated in the German hospital of Saint Mary, from whence their name derives — the Order of the Teutonic Knights of Saint Mary. The Teutons are famed for their strict military discipline, which rivals that of the Templars.''
''Most Teutons come from the ministeriales class — the unfree knights bound to the German king. Although many of these people are wealthy and influential, they lack many freedoms and are not considered to be of noble birth. Joining the Teutons is seen as a way to gain de facto noble status. By the 13th century, the Teutons have become a staple of the crusading movement. Their focus is increasingly turning away from the recapture of Jerusalem, to instead spreading the Christian faith in the pagan lands of Eastern Europe — Prussia, Lithuania and Estonia, and Hungary. In 1211, they were granted holdings in the Transylvanian Alps by the Hungarian King Andrew II. Their relationship with the king has rapidly worsened, though. If your saga follows history, they will be expelled in 1225. Their friendship with the Holy Roman Emperor Frederick II was more fruitful, and they have been given charge of Culmerland and any territory they can capture in Prussia. They have also started to absorb other German crusading orders — the Swordbretheren and the Order of Dobrin. The Teutons retain a small charitable function, and maintain some hospitals. There is more information about the Teutonic Knights in Ancient Magic, page 35.''

===The Order of Calatrava and Other Iberian Orders===

''Founded in Castile, the Order of Calatrava started its existence as the military branch of an order of Cistercian monks at the fortress of Calatrava in 1158. They received early support from King Sancho. Because of their relationship to the Cistercians, they were not subject to local Ecclesiastical authority, which quickly put them in conflict with local bishops, but also''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: The Tomb Raiders''
''Troupes whose sagas are located in the Tribunal of Thebes may find that characters who seek out long-lost treasurers in ruined Hellenic temples are racing not only against rival Seekers, but also a team of tomb-raiding Templars. The commander of the Latin''
''Kingdoms has a special team lead by Stephan of Tusculum, a ruthless Templar brother-sergeant on the lookout for any and all mystic and Divine relics. Stephan is an expert on the occult, and has many contacts across Greece and the Levant.''

|}
''ensured a sizable income. The Knights of Calatrava were actively involved in the Reconquista of the Iberian Peninsula, assisting the Templars and Hospitallers. The Calatravans supported the formation of smaller Iberian orders in Leon and Portugal, including the Order of Saint Julian del Pereiro, and the Order of Avis. Castile-Leon was also home of the Order of Santiago and the Knights of Alcantara. The Calatravans and most other Iberian orders follow a modified version of the Benedictine Rule, whereas the Order of Santiago followed the rule of Saint Augustine. The native crusading orders generally receive more support and patronage from kings and powerful nobles, compared to the pan-European Hospitallers and Templars. The Iberian crusading orders have no presence outside of Iberia and focus solely on the Reconquista.''

===The Order of Saint Lazarus===

''The Order of Saint Lazarus was, at its beginning, composed entirely of lepers. Originating from the leper-hospitals in Jerusalem, the order formed in 1130 around a Burgundian knight named Wido of Cornelly, who upon contracting leprosy vowed to go to the Holy Land and serve the Templars. When his illness became debilitating, he left the Templars — who could not adequately care for him — and joined Jerusalem’s leper hospital. The Templars and Jerusalem’s Christian king supported the hospital, and by 1153 the hospital became a focus for crusading knights who had contracted leprosy but were still well enough to fight. By 1155, the order had been granted its own house by the king. The pope gave the order privileges similar to other''
''orders in 1187, and early in the 13th century the other mainstream military orders added clauses to their rules that required leprous brothers join the Order of Saint Lazarus. In the 13th century, the Order of Saint Lazarus has its own chapterhouse and hospital in Acre, as well as a house for sisters of the order. By this time, the number of seriously ill brothers is starting to decline, as the Order of Saint Lazarus gains prestige and wealth. The order has some holdings in England and France, and on Cyprus.''

===The Order of Saint Thomas At Acre===

''Formed in Acre to care for the poor and sick and bury the dead after the Third Crusade, the Order of Saint Thomas attracts mainly English pilgrims who do not speak French. By 1220, they are a relatively minor order, with few — if any — military functions, and no real monetary resources. Their priests do not live communally. The Templars own the hospital and other houses used by the Order of Saint Thomas in Acre. If your saga follows history, the order will be reformed in 1228 by the Bishop of Winchester, Peter of Roches, who turns them into a crusading order based on the Teutons. They gain papal privileges in 1258 and are granted holdings in England, where the king is their patron. Even after 1228, their role as a military order is never prominent, although knights do join and fight in the Holy Land.''
''Templar Organization''
''The Knights Templar are organized according to a monastic rule, making their structure similar to other monastic orders. At the top of the hierarchy sits the grand master based in Acre, the Templar headquarters since 1191.''
''Story Seeds''

===Overturning the Will===

''A dying crusader-lord leaves his vast holdings to the Knights of Calatrava, changing his former will that left most of his lands to the Templars. The Templars want to overturn the new will, thus depriving the Knights of Calatrava of much-needed wealth. Similarly, the crusader-lord’s son-in-law (who is married to his only daughter) also wants to overturn the will and get the lands for himself.''

===Lazarus and Tytalus===

''Magi of House Tytalus may have a special interest in the Order of Saint Lazarus due to the order’s association with leprosy. Stories told in the Order of Hermes tell of a young magus from House Tytalus who converted to Christianity and joined the Second Crusade. While in the Holy Land, the magus, called either Rothelin or Rochelin, contracted leprosy. Believing it to be a curse because of his use of magic, Rothelin renounced his status as a Hermetic magus and joined the Order of Saint Laza''
''rus. He died, depending on the version of the story, either in battle during the Third Crusade, or in his bed from his illness. In each of the stories, Rothelin is said to have possessed a powerful Hermetic heirloom, the sword of Tytalus, which he disposed of when he joined the Order of Saint Lazarus. Whether Rothelin — or the sword of Tytalus — ever actually existed is still a matter of debate among Hermetic historians, which is strange in itself; his whole career is said to have taken place within living Hermetic memory. If he did exist, it is certain that Rothelin was not his real name, but it is hardly unusual for magi of House Tytalus to adopt new identities, nor for them to spin elaborate deceits.''

===The Rotting Hulk===

''A Genoese ship commissioned by the Order of Saint Thomas to ferry the preserved bodies of dead pilgrims back to England for burial goes missing. Several months later, sailors tell of a dark pirate vessel that is crewed by rotting corpses.''
''The Church Chapters and Provinces''
''At a regional level the Templars organize into provinces, as a part of which all full members meet in chapter meetings.''

===The Provinces===

''In the order’s Western holdings the Knights Templar are divided into provinces, each governed by a commander who likewise has subordinate officials underneath him who govern individual Templar preceptories. An officer called the “Master on This Side of the Sea” is sometimes appointed by the general chapter meeting to oversee all of the Western provinces. The provinces were created as the Templars acquired more lands, and are fluid, changing as needed. Each province has a main chapterhouse that serves as the administrative center. There are three Western commanderies of great significance, in London, Paris, and Miravet in Aragon, which are well staffed and have great wealth.''

===The General Chapter===

''General chapters — decision-making meetings — meet periodically, as often as each year or as infrequently as once every five, and there appointments are made and strategic directions determined. These general chapter meetings meet only in the Templar headquarters in Acre (although some were held elsewhere during emergencies, and they were originally held in Jerusalem). All general chapter meetings are held in the strictest secrecy, and it is at these meetings that military direction and strategies are determined for years ahead. General chapters are convened and run by the grand master, and also consider matters such as legal or religious issues that need rulings. They are opened with prayers from the presiding chaplain, with special veneration of the Virgin Mary. Important decisions and rulings are recorded and kept in the Templar headquarters in Acre. Outsiders are sometimes permitted to address the general chapter meetings, although typically these would be only the''
''most prominent of diplomats or representatives, such as papal representatives or the spokesmen of kings; or alternatively, specialists brought in to give advice.''

===Provincial and Local Chapters===

''Templars in a particular province occasionally come together in local chapter meetings. These are strictly ad hoc, and are generally held when a prominent officer, such as the grand master or marshal, visits the province. Like the general chapters, local chapter meetings are held in strictest secrecy. They deal with outstanding disputes or matters requiring a decision from a senior Templar. Chapters are also called if there is a need to discipline or even expel an errant Templar. Local chapters are presided over by the ranking Templar — either the most senior of the great officials, or the provincial commander. These meet much more regularly, generally once a week or monthly.''

===Running a Chapter Meeting===

''If one or more of the characters in a troupe are Templars, then it is likely they will attend and participate in a chapter meeting. Their enormous secrecy and the suppression of the Templars in 1312 means that there is no historical evidence of how general chapter meetings were held, or what they discussed. Storyguides thus have flexibility to conduct chapter meetings in their games. There are broadly three options, and elements from each can be combined. Additionally, chapters in different provinces or areas of Mythic Europe could vary from one another. The chapter in Constantinople, for example, could be a hotbed of Infernal rites, while the brothers in the chapter of Paris could sit through boring meetings discussing the detailed financial arrangements of France.''
''The Mundane Chapter: Chapter meetings are similar to the courts of lords and bishops, in that they consider complaints and pleas from applicants from across the Templars’ holdings. They run similarly to board meetings in''
''modern businesses; brothers sit around great tables, servants report from the great officers of the order, and statements of direction are received from the grand master. The Mystic Chapter: Chapter meetings could involve a great deal of ritual, initiations of new Templars, and solemn and mysterious rites and prayers. Those troupes who want to give their Templars a more modern conspiracy tone could also include elements cobbled together from Masonic sources. The Dark Chapter: The Templars are Infernally corrupted and their chapter meetings see dark rituals and worship of diabolical idols, severed heads, and other devilish figures. Prominent Templar officers desecrate the cross and the eucharist.''
''Ranks and Titles''
''The bureaucracy of the Templars is large and expanding rapidly. Although the rule sets out a number of ranks and titles, many more are created and discarded as the need arises. Local areas can have unique ranks not present in other provinces, while special titles can be created for specific missions and tasks, only to be abolished once the job is complete.''

===The Grand Master===

''Elected for life, the grand master is the supreme military and spiritual leader of the Knights Templar. Grand masters lead from the front and are willing to personally enter into battle rather than stand''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Designing a Templar Priory''
''The Diocese chapter in this book and the Covenants supplement have guidelines for describing churches using the covenant rules. The rules there are more than adequate for describing a Templar priory or chapterhouse.''

|}
''on the sidelines. This willingness to take personal risks and fight on the front line is one of the reasons that the Templars do not experience the vicious quarrels over the leadership that beset the other military orders. The office of grand master is an exalted position, with a great many servants and staff. With the grand master lies the power to make war and agree to peace. The decision to acquire or sell land and castles, appoint persons to command, and spend from the famed Templar treasury all rest with the grand master. The grand master also represents the order in diplomatic missions to kings, lords, bishops, and the pope. Despite these powers, the grand master is required to take counsel from the other great officials, and to take heed of tradition, custom, and precedent.''
''The grand master has spiritual as well as temporal authority and powers. He may exercise Holy Influence over the order as if he were a priest.''

===Grand Master Peter of Montaigu===

''Elected at an emergency meeting of the college of 13 (see insert, “Divine Elections”) in Damietta after the death of William of Chartres, Peter comes from a prestigious crusading family. Born in the Auvergne region in France, he was previously the commander of the Templars in Provence and Spain. It was here that he distinguished himself, from 1206 until the start of the Fifth Crusade. Peter wields enormous influence in the Fifth Crusade, as his brother Guerin''
''is Grand Master of the Hospitallers, while one uncle, Eustorage, is Archbishop of Nicosia and his other uncle, Bernard, is Bishop of Puy in France. He is also a close ally of Alan Marcell, Commander of the English Templars. The grand master is involved in a major dispute with Frederick II, the Holy Roman Emperor, over the emperor’s falling out with the pope. Peter supports the pope in the dispute.''

===The Great Officials===

''A great proliferation of offices exists within the Knights Templar. Directly beneath the grand master are four great officials: the grand commander (formerly known as the seneschal), the marshal''
''The Grand Master''

===The Grand Master’s Commanding Aura===

''Such is the spiritual significance afforded to the rank of Grand Master of the Knights Templar that it bestows the Commanding Aura upon whoever is elected to it. The grand master, as a position appointed by God, is the spiritual equivalent to an Archbishop, with a Magic Resistance of 10. (See Chapter 3: The Diocese for more information on this Virtue.)''

===Divine Elections===

''Electing a grand master is an elaborate procedure laid out in the Templar Rule, and follows the funeral of the previous incumbent. Most funerals of grand masters are attended by a great number of dignitaries and leaders; most great nobles and clergy in the Holy Land attend. After the funeral, a grand commander (different than the office of grand commander) is elected by the Eastern provincial Templar commanders. The grand commander governs the Poor Knights until a new grand master is chosen. Although technically any''
''ranking Templar official can participate, in practice due to time constraints only those officials present in the Holy Land are involved. The officers present then elect a college of 13, consisting of eight brotherknights, four brother-sergeants, and the chaplain in Acre. These 13 represent Christ and his twelve apostles — with the chaplain standing for Christ himself. When the name is announced, the new grand master is acclaimed by all present, and carried to the chapel and deposited at the altar. According to the rule, the grand master is chosen by the will of God, through the elected representatives. A consensus decision is preferable, although a majority vote is allowed. In practice, appointment to the position of grand master is very political, with a great number of grand masters ascending to that exalted position through the intervention of a supportive and powerful secular ruler.''

===The Grand Master’s Seal===

''The seal of the Templar grand master is double sided, around four inches in diameter. On one side it shows the cir''
''cular dome of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, and on the other the Poor Knights’ symbol — two knights riding a single horse. The grand master’s seal is a Divine relic, conferring great spiritual authority upon the grand master. The seal has a Faith Score of 1, granting it a Divine Might of 10. In addition to the protection afforded by the Might, the grand master’s Magic Resistance is doubled against supernatural effects that would cause him to think or perform acts that are associated with the sin of gluttony. The Magic Resistance afforded by this relic is in addition to that afforded to the grand master by dint of his rank.''

===Other Seals===

''Each commander and great officer has his own seal. Some are unique to the individuals who hold them, while others are associated with the office. For example, the seal of the Templar Master of England has the image of the Angus Dei (the Lamb of God). Some seals may possess supernatural powers or contain relics, although only the grand master’s seal is a holy relic by its own nature.''
''(chief military commander), the draper (responsible for clothing and household equipment), and the commander of the land of Jerusalem (who acts as treasurer). The grand commander is second only to the grand master, carrying the sacred Templar banner (known as the beauseant). Like the grand master he has his own staff, personal guard, and horses. The grand commander is in command in the East when the grand master travels to the West. As the military commander of the Poor Knights, the marshal is responsible for the subordinate commanders (such as the commander of the knights). His chief responsibility is the logistics of war — ensuring that troops, horses, equipment, arms, and armor are delivered when and where they are needed. Within the order, the marshal can commandeer any supply possessed by the Templars for the purpose of aiding the crusade effort. In the instance of a disagreement between grand master and marshal, the grand master’s decision is final; these disagreements are a rare occurrence. The grand master only commands when he is present; it is the marshal who is most often involved in battles. The draper holds the responsibility for the clothes and linens of the order — a seemingly minor role, but one that comes with great power and authority. The draper has the power to remove any possession from any member of the order, including full brother-knights, if he believes that the person has more than is proper or if the possession is ostentatious.  The draper ensures that all Templars are dressed appropriately — “decently” as the Templar Rule deems it.''
''The commander of the land of Jerusalem holds a unique position almost rival to the grand master in authority. In prac''
''tice, he is the Templar treasurer, responsible for the great storehouse in Acre (and formerly the Temple in Jerusalem itself). Any great expense that the Templars incurs — such as the purchase of castles or other land — requires the permission of the commander of the land of Jerusalem. The commander is also responsible for the many non-military assets possessed by the Templars, such as ships, animals, houses, villages, and mills.''

===Commanders===

''The Templars have a preference for calling most officials “commanders” (preceptors) of what they are responsible''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Story Seed: Independence''
''Rumors abound among those who keep tabs on papal politics that Grand Master Peter has little regard for Pope Honorius III. Long independent of episcopal and secular authority, the Templars’ leader and his close confidants are rumored to dream of true independence from all earthly authority, including that of the pope himself. According to whispers in cloistered''
''corridors, the grand master feels that the Templars should declare themselves a supra-national state with their own worldly and spiritual hierarchy, with a single ruler — Peter himself. If these rumors are true, it could explain why Peter’s envoys are starting to make contact with the Order of Hermes and have even asked to appear at the next Grand Tribunal.''

|}
''for, such as commander of the knights or Commander of Tripoli and so on. With only a few exceptions, all the offices of the Templars are held by brother-knights. There are some commanders who have standing responsibilities and carry considerable responsibility and respect. The commander of the knights is the brother who is charged with authority over the brother-knights, under the marshal; he also commands associate members who are knights. The turcopolier is responsible for the mercenary cavalry recruited in the East, and also the brother-sergeants; he answers to the marshal. The gonfanier (banner-bearer) is the official charged with carrying the Templar standard into battle and is under the responsibility of the grand commander. In war time the banner is given a ten-knight guard, and the gonfanier carries a second banner, folded away, in case the first is lost. The infirmarer is the chief surgeon and doctor of the order, running the infirmary in the central chapterhouse in Acre, and is a brother-sergeant. The Templars do not run hospitals, instead requiring medical aid on the battle field. The under-marshal is a brother-sergeant who supports the marshal in his duties. At a regional and local level, the structures laid out here are replicated as much as possible. Each province chapterhouse has a master and one or more various commanders, although the names and responsibilities are dictated by local needs and culture. Provincial commanders and masters of chapterhouses and preceptories are effectively lords of the manor, with similar responsibilities to their tenants: law and justice, and keeping the peace. These commanders preside over Templar holdings in Eastern cities such as Antioch, or Western towns such as La Rochelle.''

===Brother-knights===

''The brother-knights are the core of the Templars, and are granted the great privilege of wearing white mantles emblazoned with a red cross. Those of noble birth who enter the order give up their clothes and goods to the draper, and are issued a standard set of clothes and armor. By 1220, the Templars require a brother-knight to be of noble birth, the son of a secular knight, or the son of the daughter of a knight to be admitted to this rank. In theory, all brother-knights are equal, but those who were prominent or of high station before their admission to the order are typically promoted to a senior position within the Templar hierarchy or are at least treated with more respect. Despite this, only the great officers or commanders live in comfort or luxury. Most brotherknights live austere lives. Brother-knights are expected to have military or combat experience prior to becoming a Templar, by participating in secular conflicts. Upon joining the Templars, brother-knights are given shock-training in the art of disciplined and sustained communal warfare — in game terms, however, this is regular practice and exposure, rather than formal training (it provides no additional experience points, but does allow Templars to fight as trained groups, see the insert “Trained Group Combat”). Brother-knights, their squires, and brother-sergeants are organized into squadrons that train in the art of pitching and dismantling camps, controlling cavalry charges, responding to alarms, and assembling at fixed points. Of course, they still need to perform all their other duties and prayers. Brother-knights have to unlearn their many vices and ostentatious sins; they are forbidden tourneys, jousting, hunt''
''ing, hawking, and wearing fur or leather gloves. They are also forbidden to shave their beards, although their hair is kept short or even shaved off altogether. They cannot wear jewelry, rings, or any ornamentation, and may not wear pointy shoes or shoelaces. Brother-knights also may not have private letters, own locks, or have ornate bridles for their horses. Disobedience on this matter sees the undue finery confiscated and the brother-knight given penances.''

===Brother-sergeants===

''Brother-sergeants play a subordinate role to brother-knights, although they make the same vows and are under the same rule. Brother-sergeants are from common backgrounds and social statuses, and are recruited from a wider area. Brother-sergeants include Syrians, Greeks, and Armenians, as well as men from the West. The brother-sergeants serve as foot soldiers and support the cavalry role that the brother-knights play. There is great variation in status among brother-sergeants, who also fill the roles of administrators, artisans, and craftsmen. Brother-sergeants with special skills, or who are too old to take active military service, are given non-combat roles. The rule refers to craftsmen, brothers of the stables, artisans, scribes, notaries, blacksmiths, and cooks, as well as mason-brothers. These non-military brother-sergeants are not required to fight, although they live according to the rule, and so are often referred to as “brother-servants.”''

===Brother-priests===

''The 1139 papal bull Omne datum optimum granted the Templars the right to have their own priests. Prior to this, the Templars were served by priests from other orders, or from outside churches, but the bull meant that the order quickly developed its own clergy. In the East, the brother-priests are not required to fight, although when attacked they are permitted to defend themselves. To become a chaplain of the order, one must have already been properly ordained''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Arabic-Speaking Templars''
''It is not uncommon to find Templars who speak Arabic or Syrian, or other Muslim tongues. Nothing in the Templar Rule forbids it, but it is far from the norm. Templar commanders — most noticeably the grand master — more''
''regularly employ translators, many of whom may be Muslims themselves. This is a frequent practice in the Holy Land, and few crusader lords would raise an eyebrow at this, although it is rather outlandish in the West.''

|}
''as a priest. As most priests are responsible to a bishop, they must receive permission to join the Templars. Brother-priests retain their rank when they join the Templars, although very few senior clergy would seek membership in the order. Many brotherpriests only join the Order of the Temple temporarily, for a few years. The oath sworn by Templar chaplains permits them to leave the order. In Acre the head chaplain sits next to the grand master, and all brother-priests are served first at meals. The brotherpriests are given moderated penances for offenses to the rule, such as saying prayers instead of menial labor. They are also permitted to shave and wear highquality robes. Brother-knights and sergeants are expected to make confession to the Templar chaplains, although if circumstances preclude that, they are permitted to seek absolution from outside clergy. Templar chaplains are second in spiritual authority only to the pope. They can give services, celebrate Mass, hear confessions, give absolution for most offenses (except grievous sins such as murder, simony, or heresy) and bury the dead. This authority transcends the spiritual authority of local clerics, including bishops and archbishops, and brother-priests are known to give communion to, and even bury, excommunicates.''

===Sisters===

''Unlike other crusader orders — notably the Hospitallers — there are no female houses in the Templars. Wives of men who join the Templars are expected to become nuns — although of other orders — or consoeurs. Despite the religious prohibition on contact with women, the Templars regularly make exceptions when needs arise. Templar commanders are generally accommodating for the needs of a particularly wealthy new member or donor. This position, which is still supported by most of the leadership of the order, costs the Templars a great deal, as women often bring money, influence, and other valuables when they join a religious order.''

===Confreres and Consoeurs===

''A great number of lay-folk join the order as associate members, taking the vows but not making a full profession of them. These associates often reside in the chapterhouse, but can also keep their own homes, and dress differently from the brothers. Confreres and consoeurs cannot vote in chapter meetings but otherwise interact daily with full members, and can be quite influential within their specialty. They are often the servants or specialists who allow preceptories and castles to function (although servants of Templars are not required to be associate members). Other associates are men who take temporary vows for the duration of a pilgrimage, or women whose husbands are''
''full Templars. Finally, the order also houses other religious people, such as hermits and anchoresses living in separate cells in the commandery, but who are cut off from other residents.''
''The Templar Faith''
''Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto Thy Name be the Glory. — Psalm 115, the Templar Motto''
''Although the Templars take monastic vows, strictly speaking they are not monks. Unlike monks who live in an enclosed house and fight spiritual battles, the Templars actively live in the world,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Templar Chaplains and Petitioning''
''This book introduces new activities for clergy, including petitioning (see the Chapter 5: The Diocese). Rather than petitioning bishops or other priests, Templar clergy petition their commanders, the Templar grand master, or the pope. They can also petition local bishops, but this is not necessary. Brother-priests may, without reference to any outside authority, perform any action with an Ease Factor of 18 or less, although such actions may only refer to the members of the order, its lands, or its servants.''
''For example, a brother-priest could authorize the exhumation of the body of a dead Templar, or anybody buried on Templar lands, but could not exhume a body buried in a non-Templar church. Similarly, a brother-priest could refuse communion to anyone in the Templars’ own chapels, or grant it, but could not forbid communion given by a non-Templar priest in a non-Templar church. Templar chaplains must petition the pope or bishops for the consecration of a saint.''
''Story Seed: The Miser''
''In a remote area of Mythic Europe, perhaps not far from the character’s covenant, a retired Templar called Nicholas has lived for many years on a pension provided by his order. He is entitled to receive a small amount of food, a servant, clothes, and a small annual stipend. Food and clothes are provided by local farmers, who are paid each year by the Templars. Rather than spend any of his stipend on himself, he saves up every penny to give back to the Templars. Every few years, Nicholas travels to the nearest Templar chap''
''terhouse, which may be many days’ travel, to make his donation. One day, the character’s covenant is visited by Nicholas’ servant, who reports that the old Templar is deathly ill. By the time the characters reach his small house, Nicholas is dead. Should the characters search the house, they find over eight thousand Mythic Pennies hidden by Nicholas. If they do not make any search, they may instead receive a visit by an inquisitive Templar asking for assistance in finding Nicholas’ servant, who appears to have stolen the money.''

|}
''physically fighting and shedding blood for Christendom. This distinction is lost on many inhabitants of Mythic Europe, who consider Templars to be monks of war. The Templars are widely known to be extremely pious. There are no differences between the beliefs of members of the Templars and those of other Western Christians. Like the monastic orders, the Templars venerate saints, attend church services, and pray daily. Despite these similarities, the Templars are not an enclosed order. This means that they can come and go into the secular world from their priories and chapterhouses. Theology is not a high priority for the Templars. Their devotion to Saint Euphemia, who condemned heresy and pagan''
''ism, underscores their fanatical orthodoxy. Similarly, their closeness to the papacy, the Patriarch of Jerusalem, and their good relationships with many bishops indicates that few, if any, Templars knowingly hold heretical or unorthodox views. Despite the Templars’ disdain for education, there have some attempts at translating religious works, including parts of the Bible and the Templar Rule, into Anglo-Norman French and other “common tongues.” The Church has yet to crack down on these translations (it does not until 1230), so many Templar preceptories contain translated copies of religious books, including the Old Testament Book of Judges. The Templar Rule sets out a great deal of the religious life of the order, noting all''
''of the saints venerated by the Templars, as well as listing feast days. Held in special regard is the Blessed Virgin Mary, Queen of Heaven. The Blessed Virgin is considered the patron of the order, and a Templar tradition holds that this was because the Annunciation occurred at the Temple in Jerusalem. Newly inducted members swear their oaths in the name of the Virgin, and the chapter meetings and daily prayers start with devotions to Mary. The Templars venerate several other prominent female saints, including the martyr Saint Euphemia of Chalcedon, who was martyred by pagans after refusing to recant her Christianity. The examples set by these female saints is seen as very valuable to the Templars, reminding them of the need to be humble, to remember human frailty and sin, to be courteous, chaste, honorable in word and deed, and to do works that please God.''

===Templar Relics===

''The Templars claim to possess a great number of relics. In both the Levant and the West they build great chapels and churches to house them. In Outremer, the Templars possess such marvels as the crown of thorns, which is displayed flowering in the grand master’s hands every Holy Thursday in their temple (first in Jerusalem and later in Acre). At the well-known Castle Pilgrim (Athlit, see Realms of Power: The Divine, page 11), the Templars keep the heart and body of the martyr Saint Euphemia of Chalcedon. A great many healing miracles draw large numbers of pilgrims to Athlit. The Templars display relics during periods of crisis. During droughts, the Temple in Acre carries out one of their most precious relics and parades it through the streets: a bronze cross made from the bathtub in which Christ bathed. This cross possesses powerful healing qualities and often makes it rain. Many of the Templars’ other powerful relics are stored in Acre, including reliquary heads of saints — the preserved skulls of prominent saints, stored in gold, silver, and jewel-encrusted casings. Another relic is a cross made from the bronze bowl used by Christ to wash the feet of the apostles.''
''Kept within a crystal phial, the Templars possess a small portion of Christ’s blood, shed on the cross, which has been authenticated by the Patriarch of Jerusalem and other prelates of the Holy Land. The Templars also possess several fragments of the True Cross. In the West, the Templars also possess a bewildering array of relics. In the Paris Temple, the Poor Knights keep the silvercovered skull of Saint Ursula of Cologne, and many of the relics of the 11,000 virgins martyred with Saint Ursula. Many lords store their relics with the Templars while on pilgrimage or crusade. They also allow borrowers to use relics as pledges for loans.''
''Daily Life''
''The Templar’s day differs little from that of a Benedictine monk, although the rule allows for the fact that Templars need to be kept in fighting readiness. They follow the strict Templar Rule and owe absolute obedience to the orders of the grand master or their local commander. Their fortresses are designed internally as monasteries. Every aspect of the life of the knight is regulated and regimented. Particular emphasis is placed on conduct on the battlefield. Although the Templar Rule is strict, and their reputation for discipline is well deserved, the Templars are notably pragmatic. They regularly make exceptions and concessions for brother-knights and sergeants, especially for those Templars''
''on missions, diplomatic envoys, or with important jobs where regular prayer, communal life, or other restrictions would cause undue hindrance. The requirements of functioning day-to-day mean that Templars regularly interact with outsiders, have friendships and relationships with non-Templars, and have conflicting loyalties — especially since all Templars, whether knight, sergeant, or priest, had a life before they joined the order. The observances most likely to be relaxed are those regimenting the day — the vows of chastity, obedience, and poverty are never relaxed, and Templar brothers on a mission would still be expected to observe as much of the rule as possible. Templars spend all their spare time preparing for war, mending or tending to arms and armor or horses, or if all of that is done, they are to whittle tent-posts or pegs or anything else that would be useful for war.''
''In the Holy Land or Iberia, when Templars are at war, their daily routine changes, and religious observances are more relaxed. Prayers are said in the saddle or while marching (often as paternosters rather than full prayers), brothers who are doing penance are permitted to fight, and an attack means the brothers are permitted to leave their meals without permission.''

===Military Tactics===

''The Templars have established military tactics, which are recorded in their rule. Everything centers upon the cavalry charge. The charge, when carried out correctly and in the right circumstances, can be decisive in battle. The role of foot soldiers and archers — most of whom are mercenaries — is not recorded in the rule, but these troops are under the command of various senior Templar brotherknights, who command them as they see fit. The squires of brother-knights are not expected to fight, but are instead required to assist the knights. The Templars rely upon the cavalry charge, but also fight on foot or in other formations as the situation requires. Another key part of the Templar’s warfare is the famous black and white banner. This has both tactical and symbolic importance. While the banner is raised, no Templar is permitted to retreat. It also represents the center of the order’s troops, and is the place to which the troops withdraw to regroup and charge again. Its loss is a symbolic disaster —''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Calling on God’s Aid''
''The Templars regularly call upon God’s aid when going into battle. This is typically done by brother-priests in the chapel or commander’s tent (if in the field). The Templar commander (or ranking Templar) may also call on God’s aid if there is no brother-priest. See Realms of Power: The Divine, pages 41-42 for information.''
''Story Seed: The Unfailing Banner''
''A sahir traveling with a contingent of Muslim warriors stumbles across a small band of Templars flying the beauseant. Knowing that the Templars will flee in the face of a much larger force, but wanting to take the opportunity to kill as many of them as he can, the sahir orders one of the jinn in his command to hold the Templar banner aloft, so that the Templars fight to their deaths.''

|}
''Templar Prisons''
''The Poor Knights keep secret prisons across Mythic Europe. Mostly, these prisons are used to house brothers who are being punished, but they can also keep hostages and other prisoners who local lords may want to disappear. Those condemned to a secret Templar prison are never seen again.''
''Trained Group Combat''
''Templar brother-knights and brother-sergeants who train together for a season are considered a trained group for the purpose of combat (see ArM5, page 173). Although the military training that Templar brothers receive is similar across Mythic Europe, without a season of training together, they cannot form trained groups''
''though spares are kept by the gonfanier — and the brothers prefer to die rather than let it be captured. The Templars are also very familiar with siege warfare, and possess impressive siege engines, artillery, and other machinery aimed at tearing down or overcoming fortifications. During the Fifth Crusade, they have three great trebuchets as well as siege-towers on their ships outside Damietta.''
''Joining the Order of the Temple''
''In 1220, there is no written procedure for becoming a member of the order, although there is an established tradition (by 1260, this tradition will be formalized in the rule).''

===The Membership Ritual===

''Upon applying to join, the prospective brother must explain truthfully his status and give witness to his serious intent to live by the discipline of the order. The ritual that follows takes place in the local commandery, and places great emphasis on the gravity and seriousness of the process. Strictly speaking, no outsiders such as relatives are allowed. However, the local commander can make exceptions as needed, especially if the new member is particularly prestigious. The local commander or highestranking officer assembles the brothers in the chapel or hall — only full members are permitted. All present are asked if they know any reason for the applicant to be''
''denied admittance. If there are no objections, the applicant is taken into another room by two senior brothers, where the hardships of membership are explained. He is asked if he is willing to suffer for God, and wishes to be a slave to the order for all his life. He is also asked if he owes any other allegiance, either to a wife or secular lord, or owes a debt, or has any illness. The applicant, upon answering all these questions, is returned to the chapter, and all those present acknowledge him. If the new member is a commoner, he is then required to carry out a menial task (such as cleaning the pig-sty or washing dishes), whereas a noble is kept alone in a side room, while the brothers again are asked by the commander for any objections. After the applicant completes the task, he is questioned again in great solemnity, with emphasis on the consequences of lying, and is required to swear upon the gospels. Then he then swears the vows of obedience, chastity, and poverty, and promises to conquer and defend Jerusalem. The commander gives the new member his mantle while the chaplain recites prayers, and the assembled brothers recite the paternoster. Finally, after being received with a kiss on the mouth by the commander and chaplain, the new Templar is taught the more-detailed offenses for which he can be expelled or given penances.''

===Joining As a Child===

''Children — called novices — are often welcomed by the Templars, who need a steady supply of recruits to fight in the Holy Land or in the Reconquista, although they generally insist that children''
''be brought up by their parents until they are old enough to bear arms. Ages of admission of children range from 11 to 14. It is up to each local commander to determine whether a child is of acceptable physical fitness and stature to be considered able to fight. The Templars also very occasionally take in orphans or children suffering from great poverty in the expectation that they will join the order when they became adults. However, they prefer to direct such children to monastic orders, or to the Hospitallers.''
''The Templar Rule''
''The Templar Rule is one of the most important documents owned by the order. A copy of the rule, in French and translated into Latin, exists in most Templar chapterhouses. The rule lays out in intricate detail the organization, holdings, hierarchy, faith, feast days, and penances of the order. There are seven major sections to the rule: the Primitive Rule, Hierarchical Statutes, Penances, Conventual Life, the Holdings of Ordinary Chapters, Further Details on Penances, and Reception into the Order. The Templar Rule is subject to change and reform, and over time many regulations and clarifications are added by general chapter meetings, adding additional punishments and military tactics. There are, for example, sections in the rule on “How the brothers should make camp,” “How the brothers should form the line of march,” “How the brothers should go in a squadron,” and “How the brothers should charge.” The rule prescribes strict punishments for a range of infractions. Major punishments include the stripping of a Templar’s mantle for a year and a day — a symbol of great shame that entails losing all the Templar arms, armor, and the prestigious white mantle. A Templar given this punishment is required to eat sitting on the floor and perform the most menial of tasks. This punishment can be given for the crime of losing a horse through neglect, loaning Templar property without permission, or the killing of a Christian. The most ex''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Templar Saints and Festivals''
''The Templars celebrate an array of saints and feasts, which are laid out in the rule and often see the Poor Knights and their senior officers performing menial and humbling tasks, such as washing the feet of the poor and homeless, distributing food and money, or fasting. Major feasts and festivals include Easter,''
''the Nativity, the Annunciation, the Ascension, Pentecost, the Exaltation of the Cross, the Epiphany, All Saints, the Assumption of Our Lady, the Nativity of Our Lady, and the Finding of the Holy Cross. They also commemorate many saints’ days. These feasts and fasts are observed even during war-time.''

|}
''treme punishment for a Templar is expulsion. Expelled Templars are required to join a monastery. Other great crimes include committing an act of heresy, committing theft, plotting against a fellow Templar, or telling any outsider what took place during a chapter meeting. It is also a serious crime for any brother to harm a horse in the order’s care, embezzle money or waste resources, give away any property without permission, or otherwise bring the order into disrepute. The Templar Rule is an extremely austere set of regulations, and is generally considered harsher than the rule of the Hospitallers or Teutons.''

===Secret Rites===

''The secrecy of the Templars is legendary, and most of their communal activities take place in private, behind closed doors. Templar brothers take part in religious and other ceremonies every day. Many do not know the exact purpose of the activities they are participating in, as most of the ceremonies are conducted in Latin.''
''Relations with Outsiders''
''The Poor Knights fight for Christendom, and therefore necessarily have many and complex relations with individuals and groups outside the order.''

===Templars and the Church===

''The Third Lateran Council in 1179 saw bishops — even the Patriarch of Jerusalem — accuse Templars (and Hospitallers) of not paying tithes, of holding church services in towns under interdict so as to collect their offerings, and of allowing murderers, money lenders, and other criminals to join their order so as to escape from justice. They were also accused of allowing criminals and excommunicates to be buried on their properties with a Christian burial, and generally of flouting the authority of bishops.''
''Local conditions determine the Templars’ relation with senior clergy. In Rome, the Templars have an intimate relationship with the pope, as they have had with most popes since their formation. A semipermanent representative stays with the pope, and generally receives great honor. Templars have routinely acted as the pope’s almoner, as well as papal messengers, treasurers, and marshals and porters in the papal court. In many areas, the local clerics work closely with and support the Templars, granting them land, tax exemptions, or other benefits. Many monasteries also have good relationships with local Templars. In areas where the goals of the Templars clash with those of the local bishop or abbot, relationships can be tempestuous. In these cases, the Templars are more than willing to use their exemption from episcopal authority, and may even physically intimidate prelates, standing in their churches and denouncing the bishop.''

===Templars and the Military Orders===

''During peace time, the Templars and the other military orders often see each other as rivals. In particular, the Hospitallers compete with the Poor Knights for resources and donations. The rivalry can be quite bitter, but it is unusual for brothers from both orders to come to blows during heated arguments. For example, in Acre, the two orders both own massive mills on the River Belus that are great sources of money, but which can struggle for enough water, and are constant causes''
''of disputes (this is such a big dispute that by 1235 the pope intervenes to negotiate a truce). At a strategic level, and during times of war, the Templars and the other orders work closely. During a battle, if the Templar banner goes down, the Templars rally first to the Hospitallers, then the Teutons, and then any other Christian banner.''

===Templars and Nobility===

''Most of the great nobles of Mythic Europe have excellent relations with the Templars, particularly in France, England, Italy and Iberia, and the Holy Land. Many kings, dukes, and barons have Templars as advisors, either permanently stationed in their court or as someone they regularly consult with on major issues. Many of these lords have been on crusade, or one of their relatives has, so they have a personal and direct relationship with the Templars. The Templars see lords, knights, and nobles as their key sources of donations, lands, and recruits, so most commanders try to keep good relationships with local lords. Similarly, the great wealth and power, and the lending capacity, of the Templars means that most lords want to keep the Poor Knights onside. Despite this good will, the Templars often create problems for local lords through their unilateral commercial activities. In London, for instance, the Templars have caused a lot of trouble for local fishermen and traders near the New Temple on the Thames by causing a blockage on the river to power their mill.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Woolen Cords''
''Most Templars wear woolen cords around their waist in place of a belt, as a sign of chastity. Many of these woolen cords are thought by the Templars to be sacred objects, invested with holiness at the Temple of the Holy Sepulchre. Those Templars who have not travelled to the Holy Land ask pilgrims to touch or wind their woolen cords''
''around the door posts of the pillars of the church of the Blessed Mary of Nazareth. These cords are believed to invest the wearer with great strength of will to remain chaste. Those cords touched to both the relics of Saint Polycarp and Saint Euphemia are believed to increase the bravery and courage of the pious wearer.''

|}
''The group of lords with whom the Templars are most likely to come into conflict are the Christian lords of the Holy Land, particularly the King of Jerusalem or leaders of crusades. The Templars largely act as free agents, often without consulting the lords of the Holy Land.''

===Templars and Muslims===

''The Templars are keenly aware that the Muslim leaders in the Holy Land are fractious, yet capable of uniting. Similarly, Muslim leaders are aware that the Templars are ferocious fighters who never surrender, but who are also capable of reason and negotiation. Despite their willingness to make treaties and employ''
''Muslim servants, the Templars refuse to ever make peace with Muslim leaders, even to the detriment of the local Christian lords. In the past, various grand masters have made secret side-treaties with one Muslim''
''leader against another, as well as providing funds or other resources to aid against a common enemy. The Templars cause controversy by allowing Muslim servants and visitors to practice their faith and worship without interruption. The Templars also frequently try to intervene in internal Islamic affairs. The most notable instance was reported by the notable chronicler William of Tyre in 1173, when the grand master began negotiations with the Ismaili sect — the Assassins — to ensure that the Templars would be safe from attack. Shortly after, this deal became known to the King of Jerusalem, who had received word that the Ismailis wished to convert to Christianity. The Templars arranged for the Ismaili envoy to be killed, thus scuttling the negotiations.''

===Templars and the Order of Hermes===

''The Templars as an order have little interest in wizards or magic. Individual commanders, and the grand master, may be aware of specific Hermetic magi and covenants, but there is no formal contact or communication between the two orders. A commandery close to the troupe’s covenant may be aware of its nature, or instead may simply ignore it. The Templars are, however, starting to encroach into the wilds of Mythic Europe, specifically into areas with Magic auras; this may bring Hermetic covenants in conflict with the Poor Knights. It is entirely possible that the Templars have made loans to Hermetic covenants, or even possess Hermetic magic devices as payment or securities. Hermetic magi''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''How Much Do the Templars Know About Magi?''
''The attitude of the Templars toward the Order of Hermes is dependent on your saga’s assumptions on how open or secretive the two orders are. A highly mythic saga could have mystic Templars working alongside Hermetic magi, or as rivals for Mythic Europe’s magical resources. An historically ac''
''curate saga would see the Templars as primarily a military organization with no interest in the Order of Hermes. In between these two, individual Hermetic magi would have relationships with individual Templars, with varying levels of communication, cooperation, and conflict.''

|}
''who are prominent in mundane society — especially those with an interest in the crusades — may even seek out the advice and counsel of the Templars.''
''Templar Characters and Stories''
''Templar characters can fit into a wide variety of stories and sagas. Members of the Templars come from a diverse range of social roles, backgrounds, and nations. Nothing in the Templar Rule prevents a Templar character from being associated with a Hermetic covenant, although like any character with outside loyalties there is potential tension. Additionally, Templar characters could be tasked with a specific mission involving the troupe’s covenant — allowing them some latitude with the strict Templar Rule, requirements of communal life, and interaction with outsiders. Although Templars are not allowed to have private correspondence, they can write letters and correspond with outsiders as a part of their official responsibilities.''
''Templars as Crusaders''
''Templar characters involved in stories about the crusades are likely to find themselves at the center of action and intrigue. There are several permanent garrisons of Templars in Acre and other crusader outposts. Templar knight characters could be advisors to crusader lords or even the pope’s representatives, or in direct conflict with them over diplomatic and military strategy.''
''Templar knights and sergeants are likely to find themselves both in battle on the front lines, and involved in the day-today running of the crusade effort; when on the march, Templar contingents take up the vulnerable and dangerous positions on the rear or on an exposed flank. Brothersergeant and priest characters could provide advice to senior Templars, or manage important Templar holdings, including castles or major economic resources (such as mills or fisheries) that would be targets of rival military orders or Muslim raiders. For sagas set around the events of the Fifth Crusade, Templar characters could be prominent protagonists; trusted envoys and diplomats of the crusade leaders, secretive envoys to the Muslim leaders, or leaders themselves of significant elements of the crusader army itself. Templar crusaders in Iberia could also find themselves allied to Hermetic magi who see the Reconquista as a just war; likewise in the Holy Land.''
''Templars as Bankers and Merchants''
''Stories and activities laid out in the supplement City and Guild are good sources for Templar characters with a mercantile''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Playing a Templar Character''
''With all the rules and restrictions on Templar conduct, it may seem that they are not really suited to being player characters. There are several solutions to this:''
''Loose Discipline: The rule is an ideal, but the character does not uphold it with great discipline. In this case, Templar characters should take an appropriate Story Flaw if they want to play through stories involving the rule and Templar restrictions. Otherwise, the rule, observances, and daily regimen are simply background color.''
''Outside Responsibilities: The rule has a day-to-day impact on the Templar character’s life, but the character has a role or responsibility that gives him or her latitude to interact from time to time with the covenant and other characters in the troupe. Lone Templar: The Templar character is at an outpost, responsible for one of the many far-flung holdings of the order. The character has a great deal of flexibility, and only sees his superior once a year or less. The character still observes the various prayers and other tasks, but must regularly interact with others as part of his duties.''
''Templar Banking, Letters of Credit & Insurance''
''The Templars have instituted a system of deposits and loans. This allows Christian pilgrims in a particular area to leave their wealth in the care of the local Templars. In exchange, they receive a letter from that priory stating the value of the deposit. The letter is encrypted using a cypher, and there are other features so that the Templars can ensure authenticity. The pilgrim then travels to his destination, such as the Holy Land, and visits a Templar priory at that location. By presenting the note to the Templars, the pilgrim can then retrieve from the priory the amount he or she deposited at home, minus some expenses. This gives pilgrims and others more security, as they''
''can travel with a letter of credit rather than carrying physical wealth. Additionally, many wealthy pilgrims leave their assets — such as land, cattle, or water mills — with the Templars. The Templars administer the assets and keep any wealth produced by them until the pilgrim returns. This is seen as more secure than leaving one’s lands to a relative, who could try to appropriate them. Templars also provide a form of physical and spiritual insurance. In exchange for a payment (determined by the person’s social station), a person is assured of receiving payments if he falls onto hard times. Indeed, if an insured person is excommunicated, he is assured of communion in a Templar church.''

|}
''theme. Templars have been financial advisors and bankers to kings and lords; a Templar character could be at the financial centers of Europe in Paris or London. Stories could involve helping powerful lords — even covenants that have taken Templar loans — stave off bankruptcy and financial ruin. Templar characters could be called upon to uphold their rights to tax exemptions against bishops or barons, or collect on defaults. A Templar character could be an excellent companion character for a covenant that needs a sympathetic mundane lord to officially govern — Templars own lands, farms, mills, and road and river tolls. Covenant lands could be loaned to the Templars and given tax exemptions from all lay and Ecclesiastic authority; the Templar stronghold would also be a safe place to keep covenant valuables, which of course would attract a nominal fee. Templar characters could also be significant players in the fairs and markets across Mythic Europe. Especially in England and France, Templar characters could be involved in running the fairs, selling their wares, or issuing letters of credit.''
''Templars as Advisors and Diplomats''
''For sagas with a political or diplomatic focus, Templar characters fit in naturally at any mundane court — including Muslim nations. Their vows of loyalty to the grand master and pope mean that they are considered trustworthy and neutral in many situations, so Templars often act as diplomats and negotiators between nobles in conflict. The rich and powerful could seek out the advice of a Templar character with a reputation for giving sage counsel. Templar characters focusing on being the advisors to the magnates of Mythic Europe would do well to have the Gossip or Social Contacts Virtues, to represent the network of preceptories and chapterhouses across Mythic Europe. Likewise, sagas focusing on the Church will find Templars in episcopal and papal courts, or even important monasteries.''
''Templars as Spies''
''For favored patrons, the Templars perform discreet services: writing encoded letters, secret orders, and messages, and engaging in espionage. Templar characters could be ordered to infiltrate Muslim cities and noble courts, or carry covert letters of excommunication from the pope — or even spy on Hermetic covenants. Templars are exceptionally suited to the role of espionage, either in the service of a secular lord or for their order itself. The senior commanders in the West regularly travel from province to province with a retinue. A Templar, appearing as a simple monk, is able to travel largely unnoticed throughout Europe, and seek refuge and safety in the wide-spread lands owned by the order. The brother-knights can also travel innocuously as knights, simply by riding in normal clothes instead of their white mantle. Across Mythic Europe, Templar characters could be in disguise, act as spy-masters, or even be spies themselves. In this line of work, the Poor Knights spend a great fortune ensuring they get the best intelligence in the Holy Land and Iberia.''
''Templars as Priests''
''The order contains within it a microcosm of the clerical orders, with its own ranks of priests. All brother-priests are ordained priests before they are admitted to the order, and they retain their Ecclesiastical rank, and may even be promoted by bishops or senior clergy within the order. Sagas with a Church focus could see a Templar brother-priest character as a regular visitor to the court of a bishop or abbot. Brother-priest characters could be useful allies to other religious characters, as they are exempt from local canon laws and episcopal authority. Brother-priest characters could fit into most Church-focused sagas.''
''Templars as Lords''
''Sagas that involve the running of estates, or the stories that arise from the''
''interaction between secular nobles and the Order of Hermes, could see a Templar character take the place of the mundane lord. The Templars own and manage great estates across Europe, many of them on the fringes of civilized lands (where many Hermetic covenants are likely to be founded). Such a Templar would interact with Hermetic covenants and characters in a similar way to other mundane lords. Templar characters could be either brother-knights or brother-sergeants, and as the owners of lands would possess most of the rights and privileges of a mundane lord: command over any serfs and the ability to mete out justice for minor crimes (major crimes such as murder or serious assault need a higher authority). Such Templar characters may be the only full Templars in the chapterhouse, with the other characters being non-religious or associate members.''
''Templars as Sailors''
''There have been Templar sailors and captains since the Second Crusade. Robert of Sabloel, before joining the order and becoming the grand master, had been King Richard of England’s admiral and one of his most trusted vassals. Sagas set at sea or involving trade could include Templar characters as sailors (brother-sergeants or confreres), or as captains and admirals (brother-knights). In 1220, the Templars are starting to assemble their own fleet; a saga could involve the formation of that navy, as well as the frequent battles between the Templars and Muslim pirates. Hermetic characters with a reputation for nautical knowledge could be sought out by the Templars to aid them in building ships at their shipyards in Acre, navigating the pilgrimage routes between Italy and the Holy Land, or even commanding a ship.''
''Templars as Treasure Hunters''
''The Poor Knights have a voracious appetite for holy relics. Their principle aim in Greece is to acquire relics from''
''the many churches across the war-torn area. Templar characters tasked with uncovering lost or mysterious relics could find themselves allied with Hermetic Seekers, scouring the Holy Land, Egypt, or Greece. Such Templar characters could travel incognito, and other characters (or even other troupe members) may not even know.''
''Creating Templar Characters''
''Templar characters come from all walks of life, and are recruited to fill areas of need. Craftsmen, veterans, sailors, and mercenary captains from across Mythic Europe and the Holy Land are welcomed into the order. Most brother-knights are from the West — France, England, Italy, or Iberia — or are poulains — Syrian-born Westerners. The other brothers are more ethnically diverse, including Syrian, Armenian, and Greek Christians.''
''Modified Templar Virtues''
''The following virtues are modified to be Templar specific versions of the virtues that appear in Realms of Power: The Divine, page 92.''

===Brother-knight===

''Minor, Social Status The character is a brother-knight in the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, and has devoted his life to the reconquest of Jerusalem, to God, and to the''
''Virgin Mary. He has sworn a lifelong vow of obedience, poverty, and chastity, and to obey the Templar Rule. He is answerable only to his superiors and the pope, and is from a noble family. You may take Academic and Martial Abilities during character generation. You may not take the Knight or Priest Minor Virtue, or the Landed Noble Major Virtue. The character may wear the famous symbol of the Templars, a red cross on pure white robes. This Virtue is only available to male characters.''

===Brother-priest===

''Minor, Social Status The character is a chaplain of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Templars and the Wealthy Virtue''
''Templar characters can take the Wealthy Major Virtue, and also the Poor Major Flaw. Instead of reflecting the personal wealth of the character, it instead represents the character’s responsibilities, authority, and discretionary time available. All Templars have a regimented day — even''
''the grand master — but within that tight discipline a Wealthy character has more time to devote to projects of personal interest, or to self-improvement. Likewise, a Poor character has many responsibilities that prevent him from studying, training, or pursuing other activities.''

|}
''Templar Equipment''

===Brother-knights===

''Brother-knights all have the same equipment, clothes, weapons, and armor. Armor includes a helmet, mailed hauberk (covering the head and body down to knees), and metal leg and feet armor. This is worn over a padded jacket and hose. Brother-knights also have a sword, a shield, a lance, a dagger, a bread knife, a pocket knife, and a “Turkish” mace (a mace with a fixed metal head with spikes at the end). The Templar uniform consists of two shirts, two pairs of breeches, two pairs of hose, and a length of rope as a belt. Each brotherknight is issued with three horses and a squire, and at the commander’s discretion a brother-knight can be given an additional horse and squire. When on campaign, Templar knights also carry portable bedding, blankets, sheets, storage bags, cooking and eating utensils, and drinking flasks and cups.''

===Brother-sergeants===

''The equipment and armor for brother-sergeants is less elaborate than for brother-knights. Their mantle is black''
''with a red cross, or, for junior sergeants, brown. They are issued with an iron cap-helmet, a sleeveless coat of mail, hose with no feet protection, a sword, a shield, a dagger, and other weapons as necessary. Brother-sergeants receive only two horses.''

===Squires===

''Squires provide support and look after a brother-knight’s arms armor, equipment, and horses. As they are outsiders, they are not permitted to wear the mantle or red cross of the Templars, instead wearing plain reinforced leather armor or a mail hauberk, and carrying a sword and dagger — most squires have no active combat role other than to support their knight. Templar squires bear no resemblance to chivalric relationships between knight and squire. It is a relationship of master and servant — squires are never members of the order but are outsiders hired for a set period, bound by obligation and often brutal discipline. This includes floggings and being placed in irons if the squire is obstinate or disobedient.''
''which has the same implications as the Priest Minor Virtue (ArM5, page 47), except the character is answerable only to his superiors within the Templars and to the pope. You may take clerical Virtues to describe the character’s rank within the Church hierarchy. The character wears the distinctive red cross of the Templars on his black robes. This Virtue is only available to male characters.''

===Brother-sergeant===

''Minor, Social Status The character is a member of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, but not a knight or a nobleman. He has''
''sworn a lifelong vow of obedience, poverty, and chastity, but this may not be enforced as strictly for him as it would be for a brother-knight. He is answerable only to his superiors in the order and the pope. You may also take Martial Abilities during character generation. The character wears the red cross of the Templars on a black tunic. This Virtue is only available to male characters.''
''New Templar Virtues''
''The following are new virtues designed for Templar characters.''

===Templar Confrere Or Consoeur===

''Free, Social Status The character is an associate member of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, and has taken one or two of the Templar vows. His membership is generally temporary (although it need not be), and he may possess other Social Status Virtues or Flaws to reflect his true station, such as Clerk, Knight, Landed Noble, Peasant, or even Hermetic Magus. His former outside status affects his treatment in the order — knights and nobles receive more respect than commoners. Women may also become associate members (consoeurs), although they are housed separately from the men. Associates are governed by the same rule as full members, although they have fewer rights. Some associates may hold important positions within a particular Templar commandery, especially if they possess a valuable skill.''

===Templar Servant===

''Free, Social Status The character is a servant working at a commandery of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon. He is supported by the Templars, and probably lives in the commandery itself or close by. He also receives payment as befits his profession. As a servant of the Templars, he is covered by the papal bull exempting him from secular and lay authority, and is generally accorded some respect by non-Templars.''

===Templar Specialist===

''Minor, Social Status The character works as a skilled employee of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, filling a crucial role for which the Templars have no full or associate member, such as craftsmen, blacksmiths, artisans, notaries, squires, soldiers, scribes, or translators. You may take one restricted group of Abilities during character creation, such as Academic or Martial Abilities. As a servant of the Templars, the character is covered by the papal bull exempting him from secular and lay authori''
''ty, and is generally accorded some respect. This Virtue may be taken by Muslim characters, who will typically act as translators (and who should also take the Outsider Flaw or similar).''

===Templar Administrator===

''Minor, Social Status The character is technically a brotherknight or brother-sergeant for the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, but is really an administrator for the order’s many holdings and activities. While he has sworn the Templar oath and vows, and lives a monastic life, his many duties means he is likely to never see active combat. He is answerable only to his superiors in the order and to the pope. He may have considerable influence and access to enormous resources, but no additional time. You may take Academic Abilities during character creation. This Virtue can replace the Brother-Knight, Brother-Sergeant, and Brother-Priest Status Virtues. This Virtue is only available to male characters.''

===Commander===

''Major, Social Status The character is a commander within the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon and has authority over all aspects of the order in a province or preceptory. This Virtue also grants the Temporal Influence Minor Virtue, as the character has the ear of any important nobles or clergymen in the area. He also has access to the considerable wealth of the Templars, including any funds, lands, and resources, although he has no extra time. He may levy taxes and tithes over the lands he controls as if he were a landed noble or bishop, and charge service fees on monies he lends, and he may even act as a judge for minor lay crimes committed on his lands. Because of his high position, he is a wellknown figure and has a Reputation of level 3 in his area. He is expected to support the order’s crusading efforts if he is in the West, and if he lives in the East he is be expected to participate directly. Should the grand master die and the character lives in the East, he has the right to participate in''
''choosing a new grand master. This Virtue includes the effects of the Brother-Knight Virtue, and likewise can only be taken by male characters.''

===Office Holder===

''Minor, Social Status The character holds a position within the local hierarchy of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, such as the deputy commander, marshal, or infirmarer. He may give orders to brothers in his region, is accorded the considerable respect due to his position, and has the power to enforce the rule and its various laws, although he answers to the local commander. Because of his high position, he is a well-known figure and has a Reputation of level 2 in his region. You may take this Virtue with any of the Templar Status Virtues, as your character may be a senior brother-sergeant or senior Templar chaplain. This Virtue is compatible with the Temporal Influence Minor Virtue. If you take this virtue with the Commander Major Virtue, then your character holds one of the few exalted ranks within the Templars, such as grand commander or grand marshal, or a rank that has author''
''ity over the Eastern or Western region of the order, in which case you likely reside in Acre, Paris, or London.''

===Templar Prestige===

''Minor, General A member of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon, the character enjoys great respect and admiration among his fellow brothers. This may be because of a great act of heroism or piety, or because of the rank or station he possessed before he joined the order. He starts with a Reputation of level 3 within the Templars.''
''New Ability''
''The Templars have their own Organization Lore, as follows.''

===Organization Lore: Knights Templar===

''This Ability reflects knowledge and experience of the rule and regulations of the Poor Knights of the Temple of Solomon,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Templar Ciphers''
''The Templars have a system of encryptions and ciphers to protect their communications. Access to the ciphers is granted by the Organization Lore: Knights Templar Ability. Using the ciphers allows a Templar to write letters or messages that can only be read by someone with the cipher. If someone wants to decrypt the code without the''
''cipher, the player must succeed in an Intelligence + Artes Liberales (Arithmetic) roll against an Ease Factor of 21. A Templar with an Organization Lore: Knights Templar Ability of 5 or more can attempt to decrypt the message, with an Intelligence + Organization Lore: Knights Templar roll against an Ease Factor of 12.''
''Story Seed: Stolen Cipher''
''The Templar ciphers are kept in special ledgers in most provincial commandries. Their existence is treated with the greatest of secrecy. The Templars would stop at nothing to maintain the secrecy of these ledgers or reclaim''
''them if stolen. Possessing a ledger would allow its owner to forge Templar communications and letters of credit. There are many in Mythic Europe who would go to great lengths to possess one of these ledgers.''

|}
''familiarity with important members of the order, information about its provinces, military strategy, and current activities, and insight into the ongoing goals and concerns of the Templars. This Ability also gives the character knowledge of the Templar sign language, allowing him to communicate simple messages in silence to other Templars. Finally, this Lore grants knowledge of the Templar’s encryption ciphers. This Ability is normally available only to characters possessing a Virtue that grants membership of the Templars, although outsiders may possess it with the troupe’s permission. Specialties: personalities, history, politics, tactics, sign language, a particular region. (General)''
''Sample Characters''
''Storyguides may use the following character stats to bring the Knights Templar into their sagas.''

===Brother-knight===

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1 (1), Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 44 (44) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Brother-Knight; Commander, Wealthy; Temporal Influence*; Difficult Underlings, Greedy * 	 Free with Commander Personality Traits: Wrathful +3, Envious +2, Gluttonous +2 Reputations: Influential +4 (Templars), Veteran +3 (Church and Military Orders)''
''Combat: Mace and Shield: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +8, Damage +9 Dagger: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +4 Soak: +2 (+11 when armored) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 5 (politics), Area Lore: Holy Land 3 (Crusader holdings), Animal Handling 3 (horses), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (hills), Brawl 4 (with shield), Concentration 3 (sentry), Latin 2 (Church administration), Etiquette 3 (the Church), Folk Ken 3 (Templars), Intrigue 3 (military), Leadership 5 (Templars), (Living) Language 5 (during battle), Native Language 5 (large organizations), Organization Lore: Knights Templar 5 (tactics), Ride 6 (charging), Single Weapon 6 (mace and shield), Survival 3 (hills), Teaching 3 (riding) Equipment: “Turkish” mace and roundshield, dagger, Templar mantle, robes of office, ornate golden crucifix necklace, commander’s seal. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Once a handsome man, this brother-knight is now aging, with a large bald, domed head, jutting broken nose, and craggy brows. He is still well built and muscular, which shows through his white Templar robes. He rarely wears a sword these days, but still cuts an imposing figure when fully armed. He has several horses stabled in the chapterhouse.''
''This character is a former Templar brother-knight veteran from the Holy Land, who has climbed the ranks of the''
''Templar hierarchy to become commander over an influential chapterhouse in Mythic Europe. In addition to governing the order’s holdings, he advises powerful nobles. His difficult underlings are ambitious Templars who seek their own aggrandizement.''

===Brother-sergeant===

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre 0, Com +1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 19 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Brother-Sergeant; Templar Prestige, Warrior; Fear (of fire, minor), Mentor Personality Traits: Honest +3, Honorable +2, Brave +1 Reputations: Heroic (Templars) +3 Combat: Long Sword and Shield: Init +3, Attack +10, Defense +8, Damage +7 Dagger: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +4 Soak: +2 (+6 with armor) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 3 (farming), Animal Handling 2 (horses), Athletics 3 (in armor), Awareness 1 (battles), Bargain 2 (merchants), Brawl 4 (fists), Carouse 3 (villages), Concentration 1 (while traveling), Etiquette 1 (Templars), Folk Ken 2 (Templars), Great Weapon 3 (spear), (Native) Language 5 (compliments), Organization Lore: Knights Templar 2 (hierarchy), Ride 1 (long distance), Single Weapon 4 (long sword and shield), Stealth 1 (urban areas) Equipment: Black mantle, sword and round shield, dagger, reinforced leather armor. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A young man who cuts a dashing figure in the black mantle and red cross of the brother-sergeants. He carries a sword, shield, and dagger.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Templar Sign Language''
''While eating and carrying out numerous other tasks, the Templars are required to maintain absolute silence. As a result, the Templars have adapted the sign language used by the monastic orders such as the Cistercians and Benedictines to''
''hand signals that can also be useful on the battlefield.  However, the Templar sign language is very limited — only simple commands and requests are possible, such as asking for bread or salt at the dinner table, or signaling a charge.''

|}
''These are the traits of a young Templar brother-sergeant who has gained significant notoriety within the order after performing a heroic deed in battle. Although he has seen combat, he is still fairly “green” and inexperienced. His Mentor is probably an older Templar, who has been impressed by his actions.''

===Brother-priest===

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per –2, Pre +2, Com +2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age:  30 (30) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Brother-Priest; Magic''
''Sensitivity, Student of the Divine; Proud, Raised from the Dead;* Lecherous (minor) * 	 From Realms of Power: The Divine, page 36. Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Proud +3 Reputations: None Combat: Fist: Init +1, Attack +1, Defense 0, Damage +1 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), -5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local 4 (Templar holdings), Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Awareness 2 (noticing disorder), Brawl 2 (escape), Charm 3 (nuns), Church Lore 3 (local diocese), Concentration''
''3 (prayer), Dominion Lore 2 (miracles), Etiquette 3 (Templar officials), Folk Ken 3 (Templars), Latin 3 (reading), Leadership 4 (religious), Magic Sensitivity 3 (auras), Ride 4 (long distance), Native Language 5 (reading aloud), Theology 2 (the Gospels) Equipment: Copy of the Book of Matthew, black robes. Appearance: Prematurely greying, with aristocratic features and piercing blue eyes, this brother-priest has a birthmark on his jaw shaped like a Greek cross.''
''Raised from the dead by the grace of a saint, this brother-priest joined the Templars after this miracle (which is the source of his Warping).''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
