''Céad míle fáilte! A hundred thousand welcomes to you! The Contested Isle describes Mythic Ireland and the Hibernian Tribunal for your Ars Magica 5th Edition saga. Sitting on the western edge of Mythic Europe, Mythic Ireland is unique. Removed from continental involvement, the island maintains unique social and political systems developed centuries ago. The patchwork of tribal kingdoms is ruled by hereditary Irish kings, although many have been recently replaced by invading English lords. Still, the English conquest has not gone smoothly. The English king is too weak to manage his vassals, who fight among themselves. Skirmishes are endemic as the Irish raid cattle and the English grab land, and the sod trembles beneath pounding hooves and armored feet. Survival is tenuous and longevity uncertain. Steeped in magic and the supernatural, Mythic Ireland is a place of wonder, home to magical lakes, enchanted forests, faerie companies, evil hags, talking beasts, fierce giants, vengeful saints, and horrific demons. The island’s indigenous sorcerers predate Hermetic magi by centuries. The old ways continue, both frustrating and enriching contemporary notions of Hermetic interactions with mundane society. Descendants of the ancient druids, hedge wizards are so numerous, and so obstinate in their traditions, that Hermetic magi maintain a tenuous peace accord with them, allowing them certain lands and privileges. Mimicking their magical superiors, many hedge wizards have banded together, forming a coalition that imitates the Order of Hermes. Hermetic magi have established a long history of living and studying, fighting and dying in Mythic Ireland. Covenants''
''safeguard traditions, investigate the variety of faerie beings, explore the unknown, and enjoy their privileges. Largely formed in the ninth century, the Hibernia Peripheral Code has remained almost unchanged, much to the dislike of more recently arrived continental magi.''

==A Tribunal of Conflict==

''Mythic Ireland sits at a tipping point. Several factions, mundane and magical, are pushing for control and power. Against each challenger stands a defender, often a group that is just as powerful and rapacious. Fractious to the core, the Tribunal’s mundane groups rarely cooperate. An Irish prince is just as likely to raid his Irish neighbor as his English one. Magi quarrel with hedge wizards, and also with each other. Founded by Tytalus and Merinita magi, the Tribunal has several traditions that demand rivalry and challenge, each intended to make the Order stronger. Rules regarding faerie interactions are loosened, and several magi purposefully combat faeries. Marriages, kinfolk, and alliances weave through magical and mundane society, leaving princes, abbots, hedge wizards, and magi in a complicated web of interpersonal relationships. The Tribunal’s magi stubbornly refuse to change their customs. In The Contested Isle, player characters can choose sides, becoming aggressor or defender in the impending magical, political, and cultural changes. They could be initiators who select an aspect of the Tribunal to change; moderators who hope to mitigate excessive damage during the transition; or defenders resisting the change. The''
''undecided will be drawn into the fray — Mythic Ireland is too small for the luxury of bystanders. A rare few seek peace in a world of rattling swords, thundering hooves, and spell-cast fire.''

==Hibernia in 1220==

''There are five provinces in Mythic Ireland: Connacht to the west, Leinster to the east, Munster to the south, Ulster to the north, and Meath in the middle. The English invaded in 1169–70. Most of the English colonists live in the island’s southeast regions. Other territories are ruled by Irish kings. No one is strong enough to keep the peace and territorial rulers raid at will, making and breaking alliances as it serves them. The king of England and lord of Ireland is 14-year-old King Henry III. His regent, William Marshal, died in 1219 and William’s son, also named William Marshal, has assumed the regency. William Marshal is 30 and lives near Kilkenny, Fens, and Trim. He is engaged to Henry III’s five-year-old sister, Eleanor of Leicester. There are nine large covenants and two Mercer Houses. The praeco is Milvia of House Bonisagus, a 164-year-old maga living at Circulus Ruber. Ashenrise covenant is new, founded by continental magi. It is at odds with other covenants, especially Lámbaird and Cliffheart. There are many traditions of hedge wizardry; most of practitioners live in Connacht, where the Order of Hermes promises not to interfere. Many belong to a larger association called the Coill Trí.''
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
