''The player’s covenant is in the same Tribunal as an infamous magic aura, where the lost covenant of Ombres L’assomption seems to have simply vanished. It was known as a small, weak covenant that housed a device allowing people to find regio entry points. It is suggested that the device drew the entire covenant into an unknown regio when it was mishandled, but this is nothing more than speculation. The Tribunal considers the covenant and its grounds to still be under the control of Ombres L’assomption until it is proved that the covenant has truly ceased to exist. This game is designed for late Spring or early Summer covenants and makes use of Realms of Power: The Infernal.''

==Expected Sequence of the Stories==

''The hermit Dium comes to the players’ covenant after receiving a vision and offers to lead them inside Ombres L’assomption to claim a device called The Sphere of Caelus’ Octahedron. The Sphere of Caelus’ Octahedron is found, as well as notes about the ancient ship called the Itius and her cargo: The Grass Crown. The missing piece needed to make the Sphere operate is a lodestone from Caelus’ Octahedron. Allies of the Brotherhood of Zenodorus come to the covenant with a lodestone and an offer to work with the magi to investigate Caelus’ Octahedron. In the end, the Itius is found and the Grass Crown claimed. Once the characters have the Grass Crown, the Infernal spirit of Nero and the Brotherhood of Zenodorus prepare for war. They attack the covenant with the colossus. The characters can fight back to''
''Nero’s Pit to defeat them, but to completely destroy the colossus they must use the Grass Crown as an Arcane Connection to destroy Nero’s animating spirit.''

==Pre-History==

''During Nero’s reign over Rome, a colossus was built by misguided members of the Cult of Zenodorus. Through Infernal incantations, a Grass Crown was created to provide the Arcane Connection that infused Nero’s corrupted soul into the statue. During the years following Nero’s death, the cultists were defeated by Mithraist cultists, who stole the Crown. Unable to destroy it, they hid it on a ship, the Itius. Nero’s spirit became trapped within the colossus. The Mithraists also animated the physical form of the colossus and forced it to bury itself. Although they were unable to damage the colossus’ form, they were able to remove the great pins that anchored the head, arms and legs to the torso. These six parts of the colossus were walled away in separate chambers of the pit that the colossus had excavated. The group of Mithraists who held the Grass Crown entered a traveling regio and eventually lost contact with the outside world. They carried their responsibility beyond death itself, and became revenants. Whispering through the Crown, Nero was able to corrupt some of the spirits in the regio, resulting in a demonic presence therein. Some of these demons were able to escape and eventually find the colossus. For centuries, the demons worshiped at this site, shaping it into an Abyssal regio called''
''Nero’s Pit. The route to this place came to be known by the locals as the Quiet Slope. The colossus was lost to history until 80 years ago. An elder craftsman from a town within the Tribunal had suffered a grievous loss. In desperation, he wandered out of the town to the Quiet Slope. There, while he was contemplating suicide, a Green Snake of Malebolge came to him, showing the ruined man the passage to the chambers of the colossus. The Brotherhood of Zenodorus was founded upon the craftsman’s return to the town. Over the course of the following decade, the Brotherhood gathered members, discovered the buried colossus’ chambers, and created an Infernal shrine. In another part of the tribunal, Titus of Jerbiton of the covenant Ombres L’assomption was researching regiones. The magus made important discoveries, and created a device that could find any regio, if an Arcane Connection to something within the regio was placed in it. This device could also open a way into the regio. Titus demonstrated the device at Tribunal, greatly impressing everyone.''

=Earth and Sky=

{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Demonic Weaknesses==

''Each demon described has a uniquely defined Weakness. A character with Infernal Lore or who has had appropriate exposure to such literature has a chance to discern the Weakness of a given demon. This is done with an Intelligence + Infernal Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 9 + (Might / 5). Some of the Weaknesses provided are also named, as they were once used as specific rituals. Named rituals allow the players to use Magic Lore or Theology in the place of Infernal Lore.''

|}
''The Brotherhood of Zenodorus learned about the device, and sent an agent to convince Titus to use the device to find the Itius. The agent was very convincing. Unfortunately for the Brotherhood, they did not know all the powers of the device. Once the lodestone from the regio was set within it, the magus was able to find the regio, and find out a great deal about what was inside it. Suspecting a plot, Titus split the device into pieces to hide it, and took the agent of the cult prisoner. Alas, the cultist had already succeeded in corrupting a priest living at the covenant. The priest, Father Carth, distributed Aegis tokens to the Brotherhood of Zenodorus. The cultists returned to Ombres, with reinforcements. The demons were powerful, and Titus performed a ritual he had developed to move the covenant into''
''a regio that could only be entered by residents, and those they guided. Unfortunately, as far as the ritual was concerned, “residents” meant “anyone in the regio when it is created”. The demons were not cast out, and the covenant fell. Titus sent Dium, his apprentice, to safety at the last possible moment. Dium fled in fear, joined a monastery, and eventually became a hermit.''

==Dramatis Personae==

''The following characters are important to the three stories, as they bring hooks and provide additional information to the players throughout the tales.''

==The Brotherhood of Zenodorus==

''The Brotherhood of Zenodorus aims to restore the Colossus Neronis and assume power, under Nero, their lord. As part of this, Nero seeks to retrieve the Grass Crown from the regio, but he does not know where it is. The cult got hold of half of a lodestone (see later), which serves as an Arcane Connection to the regio hiding the crown, but they have no way to use it. However, they know that the Sphere of Caelus’ Octahedron, which was in Ombres, can, somehow, use the lodestone to get to the regio. The demons have set the cult to finding and using the sphere, and the cult has passed this dangerous task onto a young candidate for membership, Giuseppe.''

==Dium Manesica Penater==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per +2, Pre –1, Com +1, Str –2, Sta +1, Dex –1, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 83 (83) Decrepitude: 4 Warping Score: 2 (2) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Wanderer; Guardian Angel; Disfigured, Reclusive, Visions Personality Traits: Quiet +3, Reclusive +3, Manipulative +2 (sinful trait) Reputations: Oracle of God 1 (Local Monastery) Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense –2, Damage n/a Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 3 (birds), Area Lore: Ombres L’assomption region 2 (legends), Area Lore: hovel location 5 (legends), Artes Liberales 5 (ceremonial magic), Awareness 5 (alertness), Bargain 4 (distrusting client), Code of Hermes 2, Concentration 5 (prayer), Craft: Hidework''
''ing 2 (shoes), Craft: Woodworking 5 (whittling), Dominion Lore 6 (angels), Faerie Lore 1 (Ombres L’assomption), Folk Ken 5 (peasants), Hunt 4 (small game), Intrigue 1 (gossip), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Living Language 4 (storytelling), Magic Theory 1 (Corpus), Native Language 5 (expansive vocabulary), Organization Lore: The Church 6 (legends), Organization Lore: Ombres L’assomption 2 (children), Profession: Apothecary 3 (finding ingredients), Profession: Architecture 2 (small structures), Profession: Brewer 2 (herbal infusions), Survival 5 (near his hovel), Teaching 3 (Biblical) Arts: Cr 5, In 5, Mu 1, Pe 0, Re 1; An 3, Aq 1, Au 1, Co 4, He 4, Ig 0, Im 0, Me 1, Te 0, Vi 0 Twilight Scars: None apparent. Equipment: Hand-carved wooden cross, woodland survival gear, hermit’s rags. Spells Known: Chamber of Spring Breezes CrAu5/+7 Wind at the Back ReAu5/+3 Footsteps of Slippery Oil CrAq5/+7 Bind Wound CrCo10/+10 Physician’s Eye InCo5/+10 Sight of the True Form InCo5/+10 Eyes of the Cat MuCo5/+5 Spasms of the Uncontrolled Hand ReCo5/+6''
''Conjure the Sturdy Vine CrHe5/+10 Hunt for the Wild Herb InHe5/+10 Intuition of the Forest InHe5/+10 Dance of the Staves ReHe5/+6 Sight of the Transparent Motive InMe10/+7 Appearance: Dium is a frail, thin, and ancient hermit. He wears a wooden cross carved by his own hand with a dried rose wound around it. The left side of his face is dominated by the scar of an old wound. Dium’s spells are accompanied by the sound of distant monastic chanting.''
''Dium is on a Divine task for his Guardian Angel, so feel free to provide Dium with Divine protection from the players characters upon their initial meeting. After 10 years of Jerbiton apprenticeship, Dium has some skill in the Arts. He could serve as a laboratory assistant, but most of his Abilities reflect his past as a monk and hermit. Note that although the records of the Order show him as an apprentice at Ombres L’assomption, and he would now be a Failed Apprentice in the eyes of the Order, no magi know that he is still alive before the story starts. Dium’s record within the Order should not come into play unless he becomes active in the Order once again.''
''The History of the Cult''
''Zenodorus was a Gently Gifted astronomer who lived around 250 BC. His work with perspective, circles, and spheres developed into a cult of builders who aided in creating some of the greatest structures of the pre-Christian era. During this period, the writings of Zenodorus became corrupted by Infernal plots set upon expanding idolatry through great structures dedicated to prominent humans. Over the years, the copies of Zenodorus’ On Isometric Figures were manipulated to change the cult into the misguided tradition (Realms of Power: the Infernal page 127) called the Cult of Zenodorus, which came to Nero with a design to create the Colossus Neronis. This Infernal cult itself effectively died out after the fall of Nero. However, the colossus and Nero’s spirit still exist today, and have rebuilt the cult. Nero is the sole ruler, or Finial. The demons and infernal spirits who have gathered below him are his Chapiter-classed grand masters. Mortals who have been brought into the cult and allowed to make a copy of On Isometric Figures serve as the next level, known as the Plinthclass masters. Finally, hand-picked apprentices and potential sponsors who display the appropriate sinful traits of pride, fraudulent desires, and theft are approached and if interested, are given the title of Stylobate. Uninterested individuals generally meet an untimely end, unless useful to the Brotherhood in some other fashion. For the purposes of this story, the Brotherhood is restricted to a large town within the troupe’s Tribunal. The Brotherhood is currently housed in a property near the Quiet Slope. It functions as a successful crafting guild (stonemasons, carpenters, or blacksmiths). The cult uses incantations found in On Isometric Figures to call Infernal spirits common to Greek and early Roman culture. Using the Powers of Effusion and Diablerie (Realms of Power: the Infernal pages 106–108), the incantations allow the cultist-builders to create structures that are recognized as the ultimate symbol of a single mortal. The supernatural abilities commonly associated with the Brotherhood of Zenodorus are Ceremony, Diablerie, and Effusion, and Incantation. The cultists can invoke Infernal powers,''
''or maleficia. To perform an Incantation, a player spends 1 Confidence Point and rolls:''
''Incantation Roll:''
''stress die + Communication + Incantation + Power + aura bonus''
''The rules for ceremonial magic apply. All Incantations for the Brotherhood of Zenodorus appear to be mundane in nature; usually the crafting of a symbolic keystone or anchor pin accompanied with songs of strength, pride, valor, and conquest of community and ideals. All Ceremonies involve of 13 participants, each adding in their Ceremony Ability score to the total, minus 13. Full rules are given in Realms of Power: the Infernal.''
''Incantations found in On Isometric Figures are as follows.''
''Behold The Presence Of The Symbol''
''Incantation/Diablerie, Level 55 R: Touch, D: Forsaken, T: Structure This incantation binds a soul to a structure. The spirit must have an Infernal Might score, or be the spirit of a person with Infernal Warping. If a living being is bound, the person commits suicide at the conclusion of the ritual, and the spirit returns as an incorporeal being with an Infernal Might score of 15 + highest sinful personality trait. After that, a portion of the spirit’s Infernal Might diffuses into the structure, giving the structure an Infernal Might score as well. The maximum Might of the structure is 18 (soft stone), 24 (hard stone), or 30 (base metal). Pure metals like silver or gold cannot be used as part of this incantation. Within the structure, the structure’s Infernal Might / 5 acts as an Infernal aura. When the bound spirit touches or presides within the structure, the two Mights merge. Once merged, treat the structure as the spirit’s physical body. Any powers of the spirit are cast through the structure. All the powers and abilities of the structure are available to the bound spirit when merged. (Base 15, +1 Touch, +4 Forsaken, Structure +3)''
''Forge The Lord Of The Structure''
''Incantation/Diablerie, Level 60 R: Eye, D: Forsaken, T: Ind Imbues an Infernal Spirit with the power Lord of the Structure; see DuPurin’s Ghost, later. This incantation must be cast within the bound spirit’s structure. (Base 35, Eye +1, Forsaken +4)''
''Desperations Of True Reverence''
''Incantation/Diablerie, Level 60 R: Touch, D: Forsaken, T: Ind This incantation allows the spirit of a structure to grant bonuses to the people within. When this power is inscribed into a structure, it aids people in a spiritually unhealthy way. People with sinful traits will perceive elements of the structure as a positive representation of said trait. Skill checks for sinful characters within the structure that reflect the character’s sin gain a bonus equal to that character’s sinful personality trait. It costs the spirit of the structure 5 Might points to grant the bonus to a single character, and those points are recovered when the bonus is withdrawn, or the target leaves the structure. More than one character may be affected at a time, if the spirit has enough Might. (Base 35, Touch +1, Forsaken +4)''
''My Symbol Shall Come Unto Me''
''Incantation/Effusion, Level 70 R: Eye, D: Forsaken, T: Ind Once a spirit has been bound to a structure, the bound spirit may have this effect placed upon it. This effect allows the spirit to summon the structure to their location, much like a true demon’s Coagulation Power. To summon the structure to the bound spirit must spend Infernal Might equal to the structure’s Might / 5. (Base 45 (to grant a power that would require more than one Major Virtue), Eye +1, Forsaken +4)''
''Beneath Me, Folly Of Thetis!''
''Incantation/Effusion, Level 55 The structure is warded against all natural, non-living materials. (Base 15, Touch +1, Forsaken +4, Structure +3)''

==Story I: An Angry Wound==

''The hermit Dium is troubled by recurring visions that seem to be connected to the covenant of Ombres L’assomption, where he was trained as an apprentice. The troupe’s covenant is the nearest to that location, so he goes to see them, explaining what happened, and offering access to the remaining treasures of the covenant if they will help him prevent the disaster he foresees. The covenant is now trapped within an''
''Infernal regio, but Dium can lead the characters inside. There, demons fight each other while searching for the fragments of a map, the importance of which none of them truly understand. Dium remembers that his covenant fell to a demonic assault, and warns the characters of the threats they are likely to face. If the characters do find the map, Dium does not know what they should do with it next. He does keep his promises regarding the site and resources of Ombres L’assomption, as he has no interest in such matters now.''

==Expanding Ombres==

''Certain details and history of Ombres L’assomption have been left vague for the storyguide to expand upon within the scope of their saga. The Order considers Ombres to be a small covenant that provided a single important breakthrough (the Sphere).''

==The Hook: Destiny Comes Knocking==

''To begin these stories, Dium comes to the player’s covenant, seeking to speak with magi of the Order. He carries three glass flowers (see Entering the Lands of Ombres, later) that contain 6 pawns of Creo vis. These serve both to gain the attention of the magi and to demonstrate his ties to Ombres. He wants to discuss his visions with the magi. In the visions, Dium sees hordes of terrible demons, all wearing much-dripping crowns of woven grass, pour out of the old covenant of Ombres L’assomption and lay waste to the surrounding lands, including the troupe’s covenant. The rampaging monsters leave Dium alone in Ombres, where his long-dead master, Titus, hands him a bone scroll case. Dium is sure that he needs to do something to avert disaster, but does not think that he could do it alone. If the characters offer to help, Dium is grateful, and offers them whatever re''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Giuseppe==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +2, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 22 (22) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Warping: 0 (2) Virtues and Flaws: Craftsman Personality Traits: Determined +3, Loyal (Brotherhood of Zenodorus) +3, Fair –2 (sinful trait) Reputations: Worthwhile Apprentice 1 (his hometown) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +0, Damage +1 Mason’s Hammer: Init –1, Attack +5, Defense +1, Damage +3 Kick: Init –2, Attack +2, Defense –1, Damage +4 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (beasts of burden), Artes Liberales 5 (geometry), Athletics 2 (climbing), Brawl 1 (bludgeon), Carouse 3 (drinking), Concentration 2 (reading), Craft: Stonemason 3 (buildings), Folk Ken 4 (townsfolk), Infernal Lore 2 (powers of mortal diabolists), Local Language 5 (business talk), Latin 3 (academic usage), Leadership 2 (work crews), Magic Lore 1 (Roman cults), Profession: Architecture 2 (grand designs), Profession: Stonemason 5 (planning projects), Ride 3 (long distances) Equipment: An (unfinished) copy of On Isometric Figures, stone mason’s clothing and gear, overland traveler’s gear. Appearance: Giuseppe is a thin, wiry young man from the local stock. He dresses in loose, mason’s tunics. His eyes are sky blue and spark with excited intellect. He is a passionate speaker and tends to punctuate his words with hand gestures. His hands are workman’s hands, but carry the stains of ink.''
''Giuseppe is being groomed to join the Brotherhood of Zenodorus. He does not know that his mentor has succumbed to the Infernal. Giuseppe himself has no true exposure to the Infernal arts, beyond his master’s copy of On Isometric Figures. He has little understanding of the Brotherhood, but believes it has much to offer those who are worthy. He initially considers the members of the Order to be over-indulgent children of magic who have little respect for ‘true’ crafting skills. Giuseppe is being groomed for corruption. During Stories I and II, Giuseppe is simply doing the guild’s bidding to gain access to his masters’ deeper secrets. As he spends time with the magi he becomes friends with them, regarding the Order as a potential affiliate of the Brotherhood. Between stories he gains 10 experience points per season, and he spends a total of 2 seasons with his mentor. The apprenticeship will end four years after this story begins. The events of these stories will have a strong influence on whether Giuseppe ever formally joins the Brotherhood.''

|}
''mains of Ombres L’assomption’s resources. While it is not absolutely clear that he has the right to do this (he was only an apprentice, after all), it would give the characters a much better claim than anyone else, particularly if they saved the resources from demons. If the characters refuse to help, Dium asks them to house him at the covenant while he writes to a Quaesitor to draw attention to the possible threat to the Order. This may convince the characters to change their minds. If the players are simply uninterested, you can drop the sto''
''ry, or skip forward a few years to Story III, and face them with the Colossus Neronis. If the characters are working with him, Dium tells them that Ombres was dedicated to the study of Divine, Fey, and Magic regios, and disappeared during an Infernal assault 68 years ago. Dium is sure that the magic of Titus, his parens, was responsible for the covenant’s disappearance, but does not know the details. Dium blames the fall on his pater’s quest to find “mystical currents.” Within these currents was a device called the Grass Crown. Dium is not sure what these “currents” are, but he does know that the Grass Crown is magical in nature. When Titus came to suspect that demons were also seeking the Grass Crown, he planned an escape route from the covenant. Dium was able to use that route to escape, and is sure that he will be able to lead the characters into the regio by following it back again.''
''General Knowledge about Ombres''
''Ombres L’assomption should be located near a town, and the troupe’s covenant. It was a poor covenant that struggled to make it from one year to the next. The player characters or their parens might have heard about the Sphere being presented at Tribunal some 70 years ago; they may even have been in attendance. Also, it is common knowledge that Ombres L’assomption simply vanished shortly after the Sphere became public. Characters may know about the covenant; roll Intelligence + Organization Lore: Order of Hermes against the following Ease Factors. Most of this information is also available from Dium, but relying on the characters’ own knowledge provides some assurance that he is telling the truth.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Plinth and Stylobate Cult Member Creation==

''As the Brotherhood is based on a group of stonemasons, its members all have some ability in that craft or profession. Most members also have some training in a bow skill, due to the founder’s love of archery. Use The Specialist (ArM5, page 21) or The Tough Guy (ArM5, page 22) for general laborers, and The Rogue or The Witch (ArM5, page 23) for Plinth characters. As these characters have Major Virtues and Flaws, they must be companions, rather than grogs.''
''Stylobate''
''Usually in their mid-20’s and past apprenticeship, with the appropriate Craft at level 3 or higher. They have a copy of On Isometric Figures and might be trained in Bows. They have embraced a sinful personality trait and have at least 1 point of Infernal Warping. They have the Virtues of Incantation (Major, Unholy Method) and Diablerie (Major, Unholy Power) or Effusion (Major, Unholy Power).''
''Plinth''
''Age a Stylobate-classed member 10-20 years. Increase the Infernal Warping by 1 point per five years aged. Add Leadership (work teams), Guile, and Area Lore Abilities. Incantation and the Unholy Power should also be increased substantially.''

|}
''Ease Factor Information 9 The covenant is rumored to have   been harassed by demons. 12 This covenant had incurred   numerous debts in its initial   construction. It was founded with   the lofty intent of integrating of   Magic, Divine, and Faerie powers,   and led by three middle-aged magi:   Sequnda of Merinita, Caeso of  Bonisagus, and Titus of Jerbiton. 15 In its final years, its magi were  said to have focused their   studies on works that referenced  cults of early Rome. 18 A Roman map of   mystical currents was said to have   been collected from a   Mithraeum site. Even at the   time, there was nothing more  than speculation as to the   nature of those currents. 21 It is said that Ombres   L’assomption was born of an idea   formed by Titus, when he   noticed the two shadows that he  cast while harvesting a vis source   that glowed on a sun-lit day.''

==Local Beliefs about Ombres L’assomption==

''The local authorities consider the land ruined and lost.''
''The place of old magics is a haunted place. A place of diabolic spirits and Satan’s lap-dogs. My grandfather once had to enter those lands, before the time of Ombres’s fall. Those within wore the garb of monks and the robes of the educated. They dealt with grandfather as shrewd merchants, greedily seeking to trade sand for silver. Still, buildings were erected, a church was built, walls were made, and the lands were given over to the plow. That was before the fall, though. These days, most folks don’t care to look in the direction of Ombres L’assomption. Not unless they want something to look back. No good ever comes of that place. Never has. Never will.''

==Ombres L’assomption==

''The 53-year life of this covenant was plagued with small scale Infernal attacks, and it fell in a demonic assault. Today, the covenant is a battlefield of the Infernal, with a few Magic spirits hiding within the ruins. The Infernal struggles that carry on are effectively eternal, as the three factions''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''On Isometric Figures (Cultists of Zenodorus)''
''Zenodorus wrote the treatise On Isometric Figures, which contained deeper, mystical secrets that eventually developed into a Greek cult of architects. Thorough students of history may find hints that the cult of Mithras actively sought the destruction of the “Zenodorus philosophy,” which was accused of plotting to disrupt the activities of the gods. The corrupted forms of the volume available in 1220 are summae of level 5 and quality 18 in Ceremony, Incantation, Diablerie, and Effusion.''

|}
''(Lemures, DuPurin, and Father Carth) have no ability to truly eliminate the others. The area around the covenant has an Infernal aura of 1 by night, but this is overridden by the natural Magic aura of 1 during the day. The covenant itself is within a level 3 Infernal regio, in a Perfidious aura.''
''The Perfidious Aura''
''The Infernal auras near Ombres are Perfidious auras, as described in Realms of Power: the Infernal, pages 15–17. In addition to the standard modifications to supernatural powers (ArM5, page 183), the aura has the following effects.''
''Recovery rolls suffer a penalty equal to the aura’s strength, and diseases never improve within the aura; the best that can happen is that they stabilize. Lies become more believable, with the aura strength added to the Ease Factor when attempting to spot a lie. All Infernal beings within the aura gain 1 Confidence Point. Any character who fails a roll modified''
''by Confidence within the aura is struck by the mind-numbing contempt of Hell, immediately losing all remaining Confidence Points, and is stunned for one round per 2 points lost.''
''Denizens of Ombres L’assomption''
''All demons in Ombres take on a solid form at sunset, if they have the Might to do so. Any Infernal beings destroyed in Ombres L’assomption are reborn on the night of the next new moon, until Nero realizes that the map has been taken away. Note that some characters still possess a Social Virtue or Flaw, even though they are ghosts. This remains, as that character plays to that aspect of their personality when coagulated into their physical form.''
''Entering the Lands of Ombres L’assomption''
''No animals live here. Plant life appears to be struggling with the first signs''
''of blight. There is an eery, chilling sense of quiet through the landscape at night. The outer lands of Ombres L’assomption were vast, with a Magic aura of 1 stretching a full 3 miles from its center. During the day, the Magic aura overcomes the Infernal aura, but when the Infernal aura rises to 2 at night, it takes over. There are two vis sources within this aura. Dium knows them both, and shows helpful characters how to harvest them. Creo, 2 pawns in spring. Form: A single glass flower opens under the first full moon of the season. This flower blooms for the whole season. Ignem, 1 pawn in summer. Form: Two streams merge in a small creek. In this location, a rock studded with quartz gathers the heat from the sunlight of the central day of the season. At twilight, a tiny, boiling Ignem-based whirlpool appears, and persists for 3 days before dissipating. A single road winds round the lands from the east, traveling counter-clockwise until it ends at the front gates of where the covenant once stood. There was also once a direct route through the forest, but it is long since overgrown.''
''Dium leads the players to the northern barn on the property, which is dry rotted and ruined. This was shelter for the oxen of the covenant, but a pack of DuPurin’s Black Dogs has torn through a side wall and now uses it as a den. If desired, the storyguide may run encounters in this area. A pack of DuPurin’s Black Dogs might launch a hit-and-run strike. Once the attack is complete, the dogs retreat back to DuPurin’s base camp to report on the strengths and weaknesses of the invaders. Second, Father Carth may visit the group and attempt to possess a grog or companion. Carth hopes to persuade the party to ‘put down’ DuPurin’s dogs, and DuPurin himself.''
''Retracing Dium’s Escape''
''When Dium fled the covenant, his pater gave him a scroll case sealed with wax telling him that it contained important information about the fate of the covenant. Fearing that it would condemn him to hell, but too frightened to destroy it, Dium buried it under the floor of the barn. Now, after a life of service to God, and driven by his visions, Dium is ready to read the message. The scroll reads as follows.''
''Markos the Wanderer''
''I am Markos Heliodromus who observes the traveling border of the Octahedron. It is my duty to pass the Lodestones of Caelus’ Octahedron on to Solon Heliodromus. As is the Way of Passage, I hand this list of my actions to my successor. My first duty was to attend to the Pater as he used the secrets of the Sphere’s six wedges to enter the Octahedron. Our primary duty was the protection of the Corax as they harvested. Within the Octahedron was the frame of the ship, known to us as the Itius. We called upon our arrows of silver fire to touch upon the shadows that followed the Corax’s wagons. The playful ship was released into the mists with 30 oarsmen. We were allowed to attend the passage of the Itius, carrying the great Crown into the mists of the unknown. As part of this ceremony, I was gifted the Sphere and taught to unite the pieces so that I might serve the Pater. The shadows have stopped. I have hidden the Sphere. Meditate on these words, Dium.''
''Dium has no idea who Markos, Solon, or the Corax are, has never heard of the Itius, and only knows that a crown was connected to the demons in some way. This is what is known within House Jerbiton as a paradoxographic letter (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 48). Such letters are written within the House as a means of expressing experiences to intimates using a mixture facts and humorous lies. This letter was a first draft by Dium’s pater, intended to serve as an example of paradoxographia to the (then) budding apprentice. When the demons invaded, Titus had no time to write a clearer explanation of what was going on. The entrance to the secret passage that Dium took out of Ombres is near the barn, hidden in an overgrown rocky area. The passage is two miles long, and it was built by the covenant’s stone mason and laborers, with the aid of Terram magics. It leads to a storeroom in the covenant. If the characters follow the passage without Dium, it is blocked after a couple of hundred yards, where the roof has caved in. If he is with them, they cross into the regio at the same point. The exit into the covenant is closed by a trap door. The side of the trap door facing the tunnel has been magically carved with the words “Look to the Next World where water joins the Powers.” Dium recalls that his pater often referred to the three fountains in the courtyard as “The Next World.” If Dium is killed during the approach to the covenant, his ghost guides the characters into the regio before passing on.''
''The Ruins of Ombres L’assomption''
''Ombres L’assomption’s ruins are a place of conflict, an Infernal regio with a Perfidious aura of 3 (see earlier for details of the effects of the aura). There are few, if any, treasures remaining within the covenant, as it has been picked clean by the demons. There are, however, two vis sources, which are tainted by the Infernal as long as the aura remains. Originally, the covenant had a Magic aura of 3, which will suppress the Infernal aura if the latter aura is weakened.''
''Perdo, 2 pawns in winter. Form: A onepace wide patch of rotted earth appears''
''on the first full moon of the season in the shadow of a wall. It remains for one week.''
''Imaginem, 1 pawn in winter. Form: A shimmering droplet of dew that contains the image of the full moon appears at the rise of the season’s first new moon.''
''The Walls and Six Towers: Sixty-odd years without upkeep has taken its toll. The stonework’s mortar is beginning to crumble, and some weaker sections of stone lie broken and shattered on the ground. The wooden ramparts, roofs, and flooring all suffer from dry rot and decay, making them dangerous places to walk. Moving on them requires a Perception + Athletics stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6, or the flooring gives way in a 1 pace area.''
''The Main Gate: A rusting gate lies in ruins, with the cart laden with stone that was used to smash it also lying in fragments. The is the location of Segher’s spirit (see Manes, earlier). He knew that a secure gate might allow the magi time to save the covenant, and stood his ground when the gate fell.''
''The Tower Gate: The wooden doors have long since fallen into the yard and be''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Giuseppe==

''If the troupe spends any amount of time in the nearby town, Giuseppe (see earlier) crosses the players’ path. He is under orders to take note of anyone curious about the lands of Ombres, and to find a “map to a great crown of magical power” that is supposed to be in the area, but he fears the rumors of demons. Giuseppe offers the characters what information he has, but he cannot tell them anything useful at this point. If it becomes apparent that the characters have found the covenant, Giuseppe seeks them out to ask about it, but is a little vague as to his reasons for being interested. He should appear to be a minor character, as he becomes more important in Story II.''

|}

==Lemures==

''Order: Fury (Master) Infernal Might: 25 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (within the Infernal Aura) Virtues and Flaws: Intuition (to find singular object); Greater Malediction (no Powers in true daylight) Personality Traits: Judgmental +3, Reclusive +3, Compassionate -3 Reputations: Terrible ghost who haunts family members +3, Collection agents for Nero +1 Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Bludgeon (corporeal form): Init +2, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +3 Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Grapple (corporeal form): Init +2, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +3 (suffocation rules apply when the victim is drawn into the watery form) Throw Stone (corporeal form): Init +2, Attack +2, Defense +1, Damage +3 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: n/a; watery form is elemental-like in nature. Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Ombres L’assomption 3 (location of collected objects), Awareness 5 (searching), Bargain 2 (hard sell), Brawl 4 (grapple), Guile 2 (elaborate lies), Hunt 3 (specific object), Intrigue 2 (rumormongering), Latin 5 (area of obsession), Stealth 3 (sneak) Powers: Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus: Using the ambient, unformed matter of the universe, a specific form is forged for the demon. This form is the one described in that demon’s appearance section. It takes 1 round per point of Might possessed to take this form. The effect may be canceled at any time, leaving the body to breakdown to its base elements in a matter of moments. Note that demons in Christian lands are forced to abandon their''
''physical form on Holy Saturday. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init 0, Mentem: This power allows one of two dreamlike powers. At a cost of 1 point, the demon appears in a target’s dream. The dream itself is gradually imposed upon and twisted to take a darker and more frightening tone. The demon speaks through figures in the dream. At at a cost of 5 points, the demon forces the target into a waking dream. The waking dream is a powerful hallucination of whatever the demon desires. The shocking aspects stun the victim for a round, requiring a Brave Personality roll (Ease Factor 9) to avoid an extreme reaction (retching, convulsions, abject terror). Demons use this power to manipulate the dream states of their victims. It also serves as a method to provide visions to a victim, with the end goal of leading them into corruption through a desire to obsess and hoard some object. Enslave the Mortal Mind, 8 points, Init +0, Mentem. See ArM5, page 152. Grasp and Crush the Good Intent, 2 points, Init +0, Vim: This effect is the same as as a Mastered, Fast Cast Unravelling the Fabric of Vim, level 10. Kinesis, 5 points, Init 0, Terram. See ArM5, page 193 Obsession (hoarding one item), 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim: This power is used only when there is a chink in the armor of virtue, through the indulgence in a venial sin. This allows the demon to impose its particular sin upon the target. Magic Resistance must be Penetrated, as normal. The victim is assaulted with sinful thoughts and acquires a Personality Trait to represent this. This Personality Trait has a score equal to the number of points used by the demon to activate the power. This becomes the target’s Obsession Trait. (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 32) Wreaths of Foul Smoke, 2 points, Init +0, Auram. See ArM5, page 125. Equipment: Hoards a specific item (daggers, horse shoes, parchment etc) in a specific location. Weakness: An item from a Lemure’s trea''
''sure hoard may be used as an Arcane Connection to the demon (+2). Vis: 2 pawns of Corpus vis, in the ghostly remains of its grasping hands. Appearance: Humanoid in appearance, but in a disturbing way. They are shapes of watery darkness that constantly flow within a roughly humanoid outline. The only constant is a set of black within gray eyes that are constantly seeking, and insistently grasping hands.''
''Lemures are spirits of avarice. Each delights in scavenging and hoarding a specific object (be it spoons, black pebbles, silver jewelry, or anything else). They prefer to get these items by violence or deceit, and claim the location of the hoard as a private sanctuary. In most cases, Lemures specialize in preying on their mortal relatives, and gain a +5 bonus to Penetration when doing so. However, unless there is a good reason to say otherwise, none of the player characters are related to these Lemures, so the issue does not come up. The Lemures have been set to find a “map sphere” that will lead to the Grass Crown. They have no idea what the map might look like, nor do they know anything about the Itius. This ignorance is why they have yet to find anything. If the characters appear to be looking for something, anything, the Lemures see them as competition, and become actively hostile. Once interest is shown in the fountains, the Lemures come to suspect that the fountains have something to do with the map they seek. If that occurs, the Lemures attempt to collect the fountains for themselves, or guard them if unable to move them. Note that although their physical form is water-like in nature, it cannot diffuse into other liquids, nor is it able to ‘flow’ through small spaces. A Lemure must keep its shifting humanoid appearance when coagulated.''

==DuPurin’s Ghost==

''Order: Fury Infernal Might: 20 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int –3, Per 0, Pre +1, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: +2 Confidence Score: 1 (within the Infernal Aura) Virtues and Flaws: Outlaw; Giant Blood, Greater Immunity (fire); Bound Ghost, Disfigured (death wound), Wrathful Personality Traits: Angry +3, Dedicated (to controlling Ombres L’assomption) +3 Reputations: Marauder (local) +4 Hierarchy: 2 Combat: Dagger: Init +1, Attack +8 (+11 if Fury Power is used), Defense +7, Damage +7 Fist: Init +1, Attack +7 (+10 if Fury Power is used), Defense +7, Damage +4 Flail: Init +2, Attack +11 (+14 if Fury Power is used), Defense +9, Damage +12 Grappling: Init +1, Attack +8 (+11 if Fury Power is used), Defense +8, Damage +4 Soak: +3 (as ghost), +10 (coagulated) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Brawl 5 (grappling), Great Weapon 5 (Flail), Local Language 5 (insults) Powers: Black Dog Lord, 0 points, Init constant, Animal: This power derives from those ghosts who have taken an oath to follow DuPurin. DuPurin understands the Black Dogs’ barks, growls, and body language, and they understand his commands. The Black Dogs obey DuPurin’s commands without question. Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus. See Lemures, earlier. Eyes Like Lanterns, 5 points, Init +5, Mentem: DuPurin paralyzes a victim with terror. This requires eye contact, and the victim must fail a Brave check against an Ease Factor of 9. The victim may make a new check each round if attacked, against an Ease Factor of 6. Slapping or shaking the''
''victim also allows a check, against an Ease Factor of 6. Fury of the False Veneer, 3 points, Init +2, Mentem: Add the Angry +3 trait to DuPurin’s combat rolls. DuPurin stirs his anger up so much that he is better at fighting. When using this power, which has a Diameter Duration, DuPurin fights in a rage. Incorporeal, 0 points, Init Constant, Mentem. Lord of the Structure, 5 points, Init +5, Terram: This power is much like the spell Lord of the Trees (ArM5, page 139), but Terram based with Herbam requisites. Doors slam into people, gates fall, and shackles fixed to the wall whip out at anyone within range. This power can move anything that is both permanently attached to the structure, and normally capable of being moved. The maximum size is an area of 10 common rooms. The Duration of this effect is Concentration. Obsession (obedience to DuPurin), 1-3 points, Init –5, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Possession, var points, Init +2, Mentem: The demon spends points to create a Possession Might Pool. These points actually enter the victim and are not regenerated by the demon until the possession ends. The demon may choose the number of points to spend on possession. Spending more points allows the possessing demon to do more, but reduces Penetration as normal. If the target’s Magic Resistance is overcome, then possession is successful. If the demon uses its entire Might, the demon disappears into the victim, with any physical manifestation of the demon vanishing. The demon may also divide its consciousness by only placing a portion of its Might within a victim, allowing the possessing part of it to act independently from the rest. Communication between the ‘parts’ may not occur unless they are within sight of each other. The Possession Might Pool allows the demonic fragment to use any of its Powers, as long as it has the points to do so. Points cannot regenerate until the possession ends. The demon may choose to''
''apply the Possession Might Pool as Magic Resistance, with the host being affected by wards and supernatural beings as though it were a demon. The demon may also choose not to apply the Magic Resistance allowing the evil spirit to ‘hide’ within the body and bypass wards with impunity. Weakness: DuPurin can only regain Might within the Infernal aura of Ombres L’assomption. Vis: 4 pawns of Corpus in the form of mist-like ghost eyes that follow the closest living being. Appearance: A bear of a man, standing a little over seven feet tall. He is dressed in patched and tattered leather scale armor, and he sports the weapons and tools of his highwayman’s trade. His disfigurement upon death due to a fall from the southernmost tower (crushing damage to face and upper body).''
''Pierre DuPurin was a roguish brute whom the demons raised against Ombres L’assomption. He worked for the Brotherhood, and his soul was lost to Nero as his greed-based raids became more and more driven. Upon death, Pierre became an Infernal tool that was first used by Nero to attack Ombres L’assomption, and then to serve as the overseer of the property. The spirit now seeks to control the structure of Ombres L’assomption. When he has secured his power there, he plans to control the lands around. Those subjugated by DuPurin are forced to worship him, being cursed with the form of Black Dogs upon their deaths. Ultimately, DuPurin is an unwitting instrument of Nero’s plans. He and his Black Dogs are the strong arms of Ombres L’assomption, serving as distractions that allow the Lemures to continue their search for clues that would lead them to the Grass Crown. When DuPurin coagulates into a physical form, the Giant Blood, his full suit of leather scale armor, and the weapons listed in the Combat section come into play.''
''come overgrown. This tower is like the others, except for the 3 pace wide entry passage that serves as its main floor. This is the location of Nannen’s spirit (see Manes, earlier). She was tending a flower garden outside the tower gate when the dogs came. This castle was her sanctuary, and she longs to see the covered walk made serene once more.''
''Supply Hall: The place is completely ruined. There is nothing but dust and decay, and the southwestern wall and ceiling have partially collapsed. The secret tunnel into the covenant emerges on the western side.''
''Lab I: “Caeso’s Papal Hall.” Based upon the study of Church rituals, and completely ruined.''
''Lab II: “Sequnda’s Silvered Walls.” Based on Church influence over the fay, now ruined with any remaining images broken or twisted into a submissive stance. In this location is a Lemure nest made of door latches.''
''Barracks: Once the accommodation for the warriors of the covenant, this''
''building was the first to fall to the Infernal invaders. It is partially caved in and ruined. It contains a Lemure nest made of ruined parchment sheets. Council Hall: This building in in somewhat better repair than the other structures, as Father Carth has quietly maintained it as a possible sanctuary dedicated to the ‘righteous teachings of power.’''
''Lab IV: “The Shelter of Matilda.” There was to be a fourth member of covenant, but she abandoned the project. This was used as a lab for visitors. It was burned from the outside and now lies in a heap of fallen walls.''
''Lab III: “Titus’s White Banner.” Based upon study of the order of the Knights Templar, and now completely ruined.''
''Bunks & Workshops: This was where the covenfolk lived. There is a small metal working shop along the rear of the building. A mason and a small crew of laborers also lived here, using the yard near the Tower Gate as their work area. Church: The church has a Divine aura''
''of 4 within the walls during the day, and 3 at night. At both times, the Divine aura overrides the Infernal. The outer walls show signs of attacks by the demons. Note that the presence of the holy ground is no more than an annoyance and is a minor issue compared to the battle between the demonic factions. Note, also, that the demons can enter the church, although they are weaker there, and generally avoid doing so.''
''Graveyard: This area was ruined by rituals performed by Father Carth. This is the location of Armelle’s spirit (see Manes, earlier). She was tending her husband’s graveside when the demons came, and they never let her out of that holy ground. She desires to be buried next to her husband in hallowed ground.''
''Covered Walk: A covered walk once connected all the buildings of the keep, allowing residents to move from building to building protected from the elements. Its wooden roof has now mostly fallen in.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==DuPurin’s Black Dogs==

''Order: Fury Infernal Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +2, Pre –4, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (within the Infernal Aura) Virtues and Flaws: Improved Characteristics, Long-Winded (Fatigue Rolls: +3), Sharp Ears; Bound Ghost, Reckless Personality Traits: Reckless +3, Loyal to DuPurin +3, Raging +2 Qualities and Inferiorities: Domesticated, Keen Sense of Smell, Pack Animal, Pursuit Predator, Vocal Reputations: Terrifying (local) +1 Hierarchy: 2 Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +13, Defense +11, Damage +1 (see Venomous Bite Power) Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20),''
''Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (distance running), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Brawl 8 (bite), Local Language 5 (eavesdropping), Hunt 4 (track by scent) Powers: Aura of Black Mist-Flame, 3 points, Init +2, Ignem: The Black Dog becomes engulfed in shadow flames of darkness. The beast itself is not affected, but any other beings within a pace of it suffer the effects of frostbite, taking +5 damage. Range: Individual, Duration: Diameter. Eyes Like Lanterns, 5 points, Init +5, Mentem. See DuPurin, earlier. Straight Chase, 1 point, Init +2, Animal: The dogs pass through mundane solid objects and walls when in pursuit of a target. Duration: Diameter. Terrifying Howl, 3 points, Init +2, Animal. See ArM5, page 193. Venomous Bite, 2 points, Init +5, Aquam: This is a paralysis toxin causing 2 levels of Fatigue, resisted by a Stamina''
''roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Weakness: Separation from the pack. When any Black Dog is out of sight or earshot of DuPurin or other Black Dogs, it loses 1 Infernal Might per turn. Vis: 2 Pawns of Animal Vis, one in each ear. Appearance: Large, black, shaggy hounds with bat-like ears, and silvergray venom dripping from wicked looking fangs.''
''These creatures are dogs twisted and empowered by the Infernal ghosts bound to them, so they are physical creatures, and cannot take incorporeal form. The ghosts were once DuPurin’s fellow marauders. If a dog is killed, the ghost returns to DuPurin, who finds another dog to serve as a host. If the ghost possessing the dog in question is destroyed without killing the dog, then the dog returns to a mundane, non-possessed state.''

|}
''Trinity Library: The library is split into three wings, each dedicated to one of the Magic, Divine, and Faerie realms. At its center sits a grouping of small study tables beneath a shattered and fallen dome. The building and inner area are now in ruins. Three Lemure have created nests in this building’s wings. The nests are composed of benches, cook pots, and workman’s tools. Outside the library sit three fountains. Each fountain weighs roughly 2250 pounds, and contains two map elements. Each map element is a wedge, one sixth of a sphere, and is actually built into the decoration of the fountain. (Terram magic was used to put them in place as the demons arrived.) The pieces can be found by using Intellego Vim, or a Perception + Awareness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 12, if Dium is able to give advice. Note that each sphere piece must be somehow broken free of the fountain.''
''Fountain 1: Represents the merging of Magic and Faerie. Germanic elves, dwarfs, and dens of giants spin in a battle-dance of day versus night. The Night Queen and Day King each have one sphere section worked into their appearance.''
''Fountain 2: Represents the merging of Faerie and Divine. Spirit-like representations of the twelve Greek Olympians gather inside a house presided over by the Sun. Two sphere elements have been worked into the sun’s split visage.''
''Fountain 3: Represents the merging of Divine and Magic. The Chaldean Oracles pass fruits of wisdom around a round table. Eating from the two largest bowls is are rulers and gods of preand early Roman times, such as Seleucus and the goddess Diana. The two largest bowls of fruit on the table are the sections of the map.''
''A Series of Avaricious Events''
''Investigating the fountains alerts the Lemures, and they examine them once again. If the characters found nothing, the Lemures still do not know what they are looking for, but if the characters removed even a single wedge, the demons start looking for anything similar.The Lemures make an Intelligence + Awareness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 18 once each night to find one sphere wedge. Each success lowers the Ease Factor by 3. The Lemure carries the wedge it found to its nest to protect it. The characters need all the pieces of the sphere to make use of it, but if they fail to retrieve any from the Lemures, Giuseppe brings them in Story II, as part of his negotiations.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Father Carth’s Ghost==

''Order: Tempter Infernal Might: 15 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +2, Pre -2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (within the Infernal Aura) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Piercing Gaze, Premonitions, Strong-Willed; Bound Ghost, Disfigured (death wound) Personality Traits: Condescending +3, Authoritarian +3, Patient –3 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 3 (rhetoric), Awareness 4 (searching), Civil and Canon Law 3 (papal decrees), Dominion Lore 3 (life after death), Etiquette 3 (the Church), Intrigue 2 (plotting), Latin 4, (Church ceremonies) Leadership 3 (inspiration), Lo''
''cal Language 5 (preaching), Magic Lore 1 (ghosts), Organization Lore: The Church 5 (history), Organization Lore: Ombres L’assomption 1 (history), Premonitions 3 (ghosts and spirits), Stealth 3 (insubstantial), Theology 2 (heresy) Powers: Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Corpus. See Lemures, earlier. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init 0, Mentem. See Lemures, earlier. Fraudulent Desire, 3 points, Init +0, Mentem: Functions as Rising Ire (ArM5, page 148), but creates a strong avaricious desire. Obsession (inspire followers for Father Carth), 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Possession, variable points, Init +2, Mentem. See DuPurin, earlier. Weakness: Surprise and blind side. Father Carth has a Magic Resistance and Defense Total of 0 when surprised or attacked from his blind side. Vis: 4 pawns of Mentem vis located in an incorporeal tarnished silver ring worn on the left hand. Appearance: Father Carth appears as a middle-aged parish priest,''
''with a hard, judgmental stare. His black hair and eyes coupled with a thin, longish nose give him a crow-like appearance. His mortal wound is a deep gash from his right shoulder and down his back. This wound was caused by DuPurin, when the marauder and his men attacked the covenant.''
''Father Carth is a twisted soul who was led down the Infernal path when he gave in to his personal sins. Carth was the priest of the church within Ombres, and it was through Carth that the other demons in this story got a foothold in the covenant. Carth’s basic sin is simony: the sale of sacraments of the Church. The core of Carth’s twisted belief is that all souls must come to him for redemption. Carth demands nightly worship from the lost souls and the purchase of sacraments during those ceremonies. He generally avoids the other two factions in the covenant, but badgers them if he finds any who have strayed off alone. Otherwise, he uses his ability with stealth to slink off and plot.''

|}

==Thrice-Told Tales The Sphere is Collected==

''Once all six wedges of the sphere have been collected, the troupe has half of the tools needed to find the Itius. The sphere needs an Arcane Connection to the interior of a regio to open a path to it, and the lodestone held by the covenant was taken by Father Carth at the time of his covenant’s invasion. It has been in the possession of the Brotherhood of Zenodorus since Ombre’s disappearance. However, the Brotherhood and Nero have no understanding of the lodestones’ Arcane Connection to its other half. They do know that the sphere and the lodestone will, somehow, allow them to retrieve the Grass Crown, and once they know that the characters have the sphere, they start making plans to contact them. This contact opens Story II.''
''The Sphere of Caelus’ Octahedron''
''Titus of Jerbiton created this device after acquiring a lodestone of Caelus’ Octahedron, to find a way into the regio. The Sphere is hollow, about six inches in diameter, and comprised of six wedges. The Sphere’s latitude and longitude marks are filled with opal dust (+4 travel, +5 sight). The sphere itself is made of silver (+2 Intellego effects) and is polished to a mirrored surface (+6 display images). It must have an Arcane Connection to a regio placed inside it before it can be used.''
''Seek the Passage InVi 30 Pen +0, unlimited uses R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind This effect finds the entrance to a Magic regio to which the Arcane Connection inside the sphere is connected. The direction is displayed on the surface of the sphere, and can easily be followed.''
''(Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc; +10 unlimited uses)''
''Behold the Gate InVi 27 Pen +0, 3 uses/day R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Vision This effect allows the holder of the sphere to see the entrance to a Magic regio, and find his way between the levels, leading others if desired. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +4 Vision; +2 3 uses/day)''
''Scry Beyond the Mantle InTe(Vi) 40 Pen +0, unlimited uses R: Arc, D: Diameter, T: Ind The wielder views the immediate area surrounding object to which the Arcane Connection is linked. Darkness and containers block vision, as normal. The effect includes a requisite to find a way through regio boundaries, and thus works even if a particular regio normally blocks magic''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Manes: Lost Souls of Ombres L’assomption==

''Magic Might: 5 (Vim) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: None Personality Traits: Devoted to Ombres +5 Reputations: None Combat: Grapple (Kinesis): Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage 0 Throw (Kinesis): Init –1, Attack +1, Defense +0, Damage +2 Abilities: Area Lore: Lands of Ombres 2 (job-related), Local Language 5 (peasant accent), Organization Lore: Ombres L’assomption 2 (own job), Profession: Own Job 5 (at Ombres) Powers: Eudaimone, 3 points, Init +0, Mentem (at night only): This power is similar to Enchantment of Detachment (ArM5, page 150), but only suppresses sinful personality traits. Immanis, 3 points, Init +0, Vim (daylight hours only): This power allows a''
''blessing that promotes good fortune in the form of +1 Confidence a single, defined task. Kinesis, 5 points, Init +0, Terram. See ArM5, page 193. Incorporeal, 0 points, Init constant, Corpus Vis: 1 pawn of Vim in the form of dim, grayish candlelight. Appearance: They are simple spirits, both insubstantial and invisible.''
''Within the ruins of Ombres are three spirits: Segher, Nannen, and Armelle. They follow Mana Genita, a household goddess of protection against death. These devotions led to their being linked to the Magic realm, and their survival as Manes. Manes are restless spirits. They can continue the activities they pursued in life, but only members of their mortal family may release them. Until that is done, the manes tend to lurk around the household as ‘flies on the wall’; occasionally disrupting the efforts of their living kin. Manes can be released by the Rite of Feralia: a simple rite wherein a living family member offers sacrifices of food,''
''crafts, and written scripts that would have pleased the manes in life. This frees a manes to enter the Magic Realm for one year and a day as a spirit with free will and total consciousness. During this time, it may ascend to Heaven or descend into Hell. Manes’ powers function at different times: the Eudaimone power may only be cast at night, while the Immanis power may only be used during the day. Kinesis may be used only upon the task they deem most important. The Lost Souls are in this story to show that magic still exists within Ombres, and to provide additional guidance, challenges, or sub-plots for the storyguide. The one, general trait that all of these lost souls share is their common bond to the covenant of Ombres L’assomption in the study of Mana Genita. It is unlikely that any of the player characters are related to the manes, and thus able to lay them to rest, but finding surviving relatives would be a suitable sub-plot if the site of Ombres plays an ongoing role in the saga.''

|}
''across the boundary, as long as the regio can be entered by following a particular route. Note that the effect also works if the Arcane Connection is connected to something that is not in a regio. (Base 4, +4 Arc, +1 Diameter, +1 requisite; +10 unlimited uses)''
''Touch the Mantle Re(In)Vi 40 Pen +0, unlimited uses R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind The wielder of the sphere can cast effects on the item to which the Arcane Connection is linked, as through the spell Opening the Intangible Tunnel. This effect can support spells of up to level 20. The effect includes a requisite to find a way through regio boundaries, and thus works even if a particular regio normally blocks magic across the boundary, as long as the regio can be entered by following a particular route. Note that the effect also works if the Arcane Connection is connected to something that is not in a regio. (Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc, +1 requisite; +10 unlimited uses, +5 item maintains concentration)''
''What to Do with the Ruins? Once the sphere is removed, Nero loses interest in the covenant, and recalls the demons. The Infernal aura and regio remain, but diminish at a rate of 1 point per year, and thus are quickly overridden by the natural Magic aura. The storyguide should decide what happens to the regio, and the possibilities of access. One possibility is that if Dium participates in an Aegis ritual, the other people involved become residents of the regio, able to enter and leave, and bring others. Another possibility is that the regio is a feature of the Infernal aura, and so disappears when the Magic aura becomes dominant, after a year. Dium offered the characters control of Ombres’ property, and if the troupe are not interested in that sort of story, the Tribunal might simply accept that. However, the legal basis is not entirely clear, and if the troupe would like to play out the dispute, some magi might try to claim the lands and vis sources for themselves.''

==Interim==

''As long as the characters did not simply ignore this story, their actions have led Nero to learn about the sphere, and he now has an idea of how to retrieve the Grass Crown. He guides the Brotherhood of Zenodorus away from gathering members to focus upon reassembling together the Colossus Neronis. This could take several years, or be completed in one, depending on the needs of the saga. At the least, it should leave enough time for the magi to work out how to operate the Sphere, probably by investigating it in the laboratory. When the colossus is complete, Nero sets Story II: Water’s Vista in motion.''

==Story II: Water’s Vista==

''The characters may feel that they have defeated the demons and prevented the disaster seen in Dium’s visions, but the visions do not stop. If Dium is still alive, he continues to have them, and any player characters with the Visions Flaw start to experience them as well. They are infrequent at first, but happen more and more often, until Nero is ready to move. The cult sends Giuseppe to speak to the covenant. He tells them that he has had visions of demons overwhelming the area, visions that sound a lot like the visions Dium has seen. He says that he is afraid that the demons will find the Grass Crown, and use it to raise an army. He brings half of a Lodestone of Caelus’ Octahedron, which he says he believes may be key to finding the crown. Dium recognizes the Lodestone as something that his pater had, and confirms Giuseppe’s story, at least that far. Giuseppe is willing to accompany the characters, or to hand over the Lodestone and let them act by themselves. He stresses that the most important thing is that the Grass Crown be brought somewhere safe and defended, such as the characters’ covenant. If the characters need further urging, he suggests that the crown might be a''
''powerful magical artifact. Whether or not Giuseppe is to go with the characters, a Spirit of Fraud (see nearby) follows them, to keep track of events for the Brotherhood. Nero is confident that he can take the Grass Crown back from the covenant whenever he wants, provided that he knows where it is.''

==Currents of Caelus’ Octahedron==

''The Sphere, using the Lodestone, can easily find the entrance to Caelus’ Octahedron. However, the entrance moves, never staying in the same place for longer than a single season. The characters may be able to reach the first entry point they find, or, if you wish to take the opportunity to run other stories, the entrance may move just before they reach it, leaving them in an area of your choice in Mythic Europe. Characters who trace the movements of the entrance point for at least a year can predict where and when it will next move with a stress roll of Intelligence + Magic Lore against an Ease Factor of 12. This is unlikely to matter for this story, but may be useful in the future. The entry point to Caelus’ Octahedron is always found on naturally stoney ground under wide open skies. Once the characters are nearby, the Sphere can show them how to enter. Note that there are few supplies within the regio, and the characters may want to enter and leave more than once. If you want to add another story, the entrance might move while some characters are outside the regio. As long as the entrance does not move, however, the Sphere makes entering and leaving easy; if it is used in the immediate vicinity of a regio entrance, there is no need for an Arcane Connection.''

==Within Caelus’ Octahedron==

''The regio of Caelus’ Octahedron is a Magic regio, aligned to Auram. This means that the regio’s aura is added twice to any Magic effects that deal with Auram.''
''Level 1 is a seemingly infinite realm of thick fog, limiting visibility to 10 to 20 paces. The ground is made of slick stone. Alert characters are able to occasionally find a lodestone, if they know to look for one (Perception + Awareness + simple die, Ease Factor 15). The Magic aura of this level is 2. The characters enter the regio at the start of a straight, and obviously artificial, stone road. This leads to the temple of Mithras at the inlet that serves as the entrance to the second level of the regio. If the characters do not simply follow it, the Sphere can be used to find the other half of the Lodestone, which is in the temple.''

==The Mithraeum at the Inlet==

''The road leads to a Mithraeum. Under the temple is a short cavern that leads to a low and wide underground chamber. This is the primary location of the bulk of the revenants who maintain this sect. Daily, a ceremonial feast is prepared in mime, as the food stores were emptied a millennium ago. The Pater leads the feasting rites and prayers in silence, as he no longer has a tongue to speak the words. A procession goes out to the shore of the nearby inlet, where four or five medium-sized boats rest upon the shore. If there are five boats, then three Corax revenants board one boat and travel off to find and maintain the Itius. Occasionally, a boat of three Corax revenants returns from their task and rejoins the daily routine in the Mithraeum. It is not unusual for weeks to pass before a boat returns. The Pater has the half Lodestone that is connected to the one held by the characters, although it is of no use to him. This cult is clearly closely related to surviving Mithraic cults in the Order of Hermes, but centuries of undead isolation has created some important differences. The Sphere can show the characters the route into the second level of the regio without any trouble, but cannot them guide them to the Itius and the Grass Crown. While the characters may be able to use magic to find it, the easiest way is to rely on the revenants’ information. There are three ways to get this.''
''Plan 1: The Rite of Admission''
''One or more characters may decide to join the cult of Mithras. This gains the Pater’s full trust and cooperation. Any characters interested in doing so must demonstrate that they are not in league with the Infernal. A character who slays a demon and destroys the vis before the Pater within the upper temple of the Mithraeum gains enough of the Pater’s trust to proceed to the Initiation Rite for the title of Corax. This Initiation focuses upon the seeker’s interest in the care and maintenance of the temple. The Initiation ritual requires one season of effort, most likely including leaving the regio for building materials. The Initiate gains grade of Corax within the cult of Mithras, and the Major Virtue of Restore the Carpenters’ Efforts (as the listed Corax Power, later), which costs two Fatigue levels to use. (See Realms of Power: Magic, page 44 for rules for powers as Virtues). Becoming a member of this cult may provide the basis for a good reputation with the Legion of Mithras (The Mysteries Revised Edition, pages 118–122) and the Cult of Mithras within House Flambeau (Houses of Hermes: Societies, pages 17–18). The Target Level is 21. The Pater’s Mystagogue Presence + Lore is 6, and the Initiation Script give a bonus of +15, meeting the requirement.''
''Quest: Slay a demon (+3), the Initiate must then destroy the resulting vis as a Sacrifice to Mithras (+1).''
''Quest: Obtain carpentry materials (+3), the Initiate has to travel far to reach a sacred grove spoken of in Mithraic lore during the time that Jupiter is in the sky (+3). The Sacrifice of one season’s worth of activity in rebuilding the temple with the Pater grants exposure in Cult of Mithras Lore and a (+1) script bonus. (+1) sympathetic appropriateness in taking responsibility for the temple to Mithras. (+3) The Mystagogue sacrifices one season in teaching the Initiate the Supernatural Ability. Only a single character need become a Corax. This individual becomes a diplomat between the remaining characters and the Pater. If the characters are only interested''
''in finding the Itius, they may not feel that spending a season to join a cult of undead pagans is a wise use of time. However, if they decide to make long-term use of the regio later, it may be a worthwhile investment.''
''Plan 2: Stealth Mission''
''The characters can follow the three Corax who travel off to maintain the Itius. Those who chose to do so may even go so far as to board the boat being rowed by the Corax. As long as the Coraxs’ tasks are not impeded in any way, they are oblivious to outsiders. Keep in mind that these beings do not require food, water, or rest, and that the boat is completely without provisions.''
''Plan 3: Forcing Compliance''
''Intellego or Rego Mentem effects can be used to trick or force the Pater into revealing the location of the Itius. If the Pater realizes what is going on, he considers the caster to be in league with the demons, and orders the revenants to harass them as long as they remain within the regio.''
''Revenant Grades''
''The Mithraists left behind followers to maintain the Itius. They served devotedly within the regio, and when they died there, the magic of the place brought them back as revenants. Even in death, their degrees of initiation into the mysteries of Mithras shape them and determine their powers. The Pater is a unique individual whose ghost retains its awareness and free will. The Leos serve as the keepers of the temple, both defending it and maintaining its feasting rites. The Corax preserve and repair the Itius. Note that these beings have not created a ‘society’ within this regio. Each Revenant now endlessly repeats the most fundamental service that it provided in life, and if they are prevented from doing so, they strike out violently. The Pater rules over the other revenants, and keeps the passage to the Itius, and the Rite of Admission. After a thousand years of the same task, the Pater does not handle change well. He still sees the''
''Infernal as the enemy, but has all but forgotten why he is maintaining the temple and the Itius. As a result, he does not interfere with characters who do not seem to interfere with those tasks, even if he sees them removing the Grass Crown from the regio. The Pater wears the other half of Giuseppe ‘s lodestone as a necklace. The Pater has two tasks: the Mithraeum’s upkeep through adherence to its rituals, and the upkeep of the ship Itius. Because of this, the majority of the revenants are in and around the Mithraeum, while teams of three Corax are sent out to check on and repair the Itius. The Pater has a Presence score of +1, and a Penetration Ability of 3, specialized in Commune with the Grades. He has the Powers of the Leo and Corax-grade Revenants, and the following additional powers.''
''Commune with the Grades, 0 points, Init +1, Mentem. The Pater can access the mind of anyone whom he Initiated into the cult. This includes all of the revenants. The Pater can use the target’s senses, and give commands, which must be obeyed. Over years, the Pater could change the revenants’ default tasks through this power, but at present he has no interest in doing so. Note that this power must Penetrate Magic Resistance (with a Penetration of 9), so any magi who join the cult are effectively immune.''
''Itius’ Chart, 6 points, Init +1, Vim. The Pater is able to divine the precise location of the Itius, as well as its general course of travel. This course check must be updated on a daily basis, as the currents of this regio are prone to unexpected changes. This power is used to guide Corax-grade revenants to the Itius. Leo Revenants: These are the ‘lions of the den’, who serve as caretakers of the Mythraeum. They follow their routines, unless given instructions by the Pater. Leo-grade Revenants have the Powers of the Corax-grade Revenants. They also have the following additional Powers.''
''Leo’s Batillum, 2 points, Init +1, Ignem: Creates a shovel’s worth of small red-hot coals that are ‘tossed’ onto a single, specific target (Damage +10). The coals last for a Diameter.''
''Thunder of the Leo, 2 points, Init +1, Auram: The revenant roars, affecting the target as Jupiter’s Resounding Blow (ArM5, page 125).''
''Corax Revenants: These ‘ravens’ travel between the Mythraeum in Level 1 and the Itius in Level 2. These creatures are also under the Pater’s control.''
''Restore the Carpenter’s Efforts, 6 points, Init +1, Herbam: Returns a damaged or rotted area of a wooden structure to its pristine state. It takes the revenant hours to perform the rituals that create this effect, but it does not need any materials.''

==Onward!==

''The next level of the regio can be reached through the nearby inlet. On the first level, the inlet goes into the mists, and soon after the temple shore disappears into the mist, another shore appears, bringing characters back to the stoney ground. If they pass through the entrance to the next level, the mist clears. The second level is a limitless sea. The water is pure and infinitely deep, as are the skies above. Day and night are exactly 12 hours long, but there is no sun, and no moon. At night, the fixed stars are visible, but there are no planets, either. From time to time, soft music is heard drifting from on high. The Magic aura of this level is 4 (again, doubled for Auram effects). While the Itius is not a small ship, it has sailed a limitless sea for almost a millennium. Its course has not been a straight one, nor has it simply coasted in circles. It is all but impossible to find the ship without some guidance. The Pater can provide the necessary information, either directly or to the Corax, but otherwise the characters must come up with some magical way to find the ship. They do not have any Arcane Connections to it, which sharply limits their options. If the characters have guidance from the Pater, the Itius happens to be relatively close to the inlet, and they find it within hours. If they are following the Corax, or their own magic, it may take much longer, and while the revenants have no need for''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Rest of the Sphere==

''If the characters did not manage to retrieve the whole Sphere from Ombres, Giuseppe brings the remaining pieces. He claims to have been guided to them by his visions, and, if questioned about the demons in the fallen covenant, says that there were no demons there. Investigating Ombres shows that he is telling the truth; the demons have gone.''

==Strategic Truth==

''Almost everything that Giuseppe tells the characters is true. He really has had visions, and he does think that the demons will use the Grass Crown to raise an army (they lied to him). Simple magic used to check his truthfulness does not expose him as a demonic cultist. The Spirit of Fraud intervenes, using its Mastery of Misdirection power, to maintain the charade against more thorough magic. If it cannot, Giuseppe is exposed, and the characters must decide what to do about the demonic cult. The sequence may well skip this story, and move straight to Story III. After destroying the colossus, the characters may decide to investigate the Grass Crown, just in case.''

==Lodestones of Caelus’ Octahedron==

''An unbroken Caelus’ Octahedron Lodestone is a form of Auram vis (1 pawn). Each Lodestone has a fissure along its equator. If the stone is separated along this fissure, then the pawn of vis is expended, but each half becomes a fixed Arcane Connection to the other. The other half of Giuseppe’s Lodestone is owned by the Pater, within the regio (see later).''

|}
''food, the same is not true of the characters. The storyguide may add problems here if the troupe finds them entertaining. The Itius''
''The Itius is a Roman trireme. The Grass Crown is stored in the hold, inside a ward against demons. The ward is a circle, inscribed on the planks form''
''ing the floor, and strong enough to keep out most demons. Once the ship was crewed by Mithraic cultists, but as they died, they returned as manes (see earlier), and continued rowing. Nero was able to whis''

==Spirits of Fraud==

''Order: Fury Infernal Might: 20 (Imaginem) Characteristics: Int –3, Per +3, Pre –3, Com +3, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik +2 Size: +3 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Sense Holiness and Unholiness, Theft of Emotions (see later); Cruel, Wrathful Personality Traits: Cruel +3, Angry +3 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 6 Combat: Body Bludgeon: Init +1, Attack +9 (+12 if Fury Power is used), Defense +7, Damage +14 Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Smothering Grapple: Init +2, Attack +8 (+11 if Fury Power is used), Defense +8, Damage +2 Tentacle: Init +2, Attack +8 (+11 if Fury Power is used), Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (25–32), Dead (33) Abilities: Athletics 7 (climb), Awareness 5 (determining effect), Brawl 7 (tentacle), Emotion Theft 5 (trust) Latin 5 (negotiation), Sense Holiness and Unholiness 3 (evil), Stealth 5 (shadowing). Powers: Coagulation, 2 points, Init –1, Aquam. See Lemures, earlier. Envisioning (A great stage or puppet show), 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem. See Lemures, earlier. Fury of the False Veneer, 2 points, Init +0, Imaginem. See DuPurin, earlier. Incorporeal Darkness, 0 points, Init constant, Vim. As the Incorporeal Power, but creates shadows as the spell Gloom of Evening. See ArM5, page 142.''
''Infatuation, 4 points, Init +0, Imaginem: The spirit ‘speaks’ with a voice so rich with lustful promises that a strong desire to approach washes over the target group (up to 10 people). Characters may resist the lure with an Intelligence stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Those affected do whatever is necessary to reach the demon in as straight a path as possible: leaping off bridges, steering ships into the rocks, or climbing cliffs. They will not take obviously suicidal actions, but they will take insane risks, and do not care about risks to others. The Lie Affirmed, 1+ point, Init –1, Mentem: The targets completely believe the next lie that they are told, no matter how outlandish. The cost is 1 point per target. The demon normally has a good idea of what the next lie will be, but even if it is wrong, the targets believe the next lie they are told. This power can backfire. Mastery of Misdirection, 1–8 points, Init +0, Imaginem: The Spirit of Fraud is capable of producing an Infernal copy of any non-ritual Imaginem spell of 40th level or lower that pertains to misdirection and concealment at a cost of 1 Might point per magnitude of effect. Most forms of magic, including Hermetic magic, are incapable of determining that these effects are false. Obsession (will agree with any expressed opinion), 1-3 points, Init –5, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Possession, var points, Init +2, Mentem. See DuPurin, earlier. Weakness: Silvered mirrors held to reflect the demon act as though the holder is within an effective Circular Ward Against Demons of 1 pace radius, centered on the mirror, when dealing with a Spirit of Fraud. Vis: 4 points, appearing as a hand-sized''
''swirling mass of black fluid. Appearance: A flowing blob of black ichor that may shrink as small as a normal man’s footprint. Normally, it appears as a flowing, tentaclegrasping thing of black water 3 paces across. It moves across fluid surfaces as though they were solid, but cannot enter said surfaces.''
''When a spirit under Nero fully gives in to fury and avarice, it is reborn from the blackest of pits. These are beings without shape or form. They are shadow forces that make all true things appear pointless through fraud. The Theft of Emotion Ability allows the demon to manipulate the emotions of others as a Supernatural Ability. The demon must first find a person expressing the emotion it wishes to instill in another. Then it makes a Presence + Emotion Theft roll against an Ease Factor of 6 + the target’s Personality Trait for that emotion. If successful, the emotion is removed from the target, leaving her devoid of it (although it may naturally recover, over time). The demon then transfers the emotion to another by touch. The target feels the emotion as strongly as the original ‘donor.’ The demon cannot transfer feelings of True Love, True Friendship, or True Faith. In combat, Spirits of Fraud may attack up to 3 targets with a tentacle. A tentacle strike that succeeds by more than 6 + the target’s Size grapples the target, and draws him to the demon. The victim is then subject to a smothering grapple in the next combat round, and the demon can still make three tentacle attacks against other targets. Against a single foe, it attacks with the Body Bludgeon and one tentacle strike, seeking to draw the victim into a smothering grapple.''
''per to the spirits through the crown and corrupt them, and learned that the crown was at sea. After several centuries, he realized that it was in a regio. The demons (larvae, see later) are individually too weak to move the crown, even if they could touch it, and, in any case, they do not know where to take it. If they destroy the ship, the crown will sink into the ocean, and most likely be lost forever. The situation on the ship has thus been a stalemate for centuries. The characters break this stalemate. They have been followed by three Spirits of Fraud, so there are enough demons to carry the Grass Crown if they cooperate. Fortunately, demons are not good at cooperation. Unfortunately, they cannot bear to see the characters take the crown where they have failed. Once a battle starts, the demons are unconcerned about damage to the ship, at least in the heat of the moment. The number of demons should be chosen to present a challenge, but not''
''a deathtrap. As many manes as larvae, and as many of each as there are player characters, is a good place to start. The ship could hold 170 oarsmen, but over a thousand years most have passed on.''
''Above Deck''
''A handful of manes oarsmen are the power behind the craft. There are many empty seats, as most of the manes have either found peace and ascended, or have succumbed to rage and have become Infernal larvae.''
''Below Deck''
''The Larvae are oarsmen who have fallen to the Infernal. These Infernal Spirits wander the hold, seeking some way to get the Crown.''

==The Grass Crown==

''A grass crown was the height of honor in the Roman military. It was woven from the bloodied blades of grass where a major military victory was earned, and then presented to the leader of the victorious army to represent the field, sacrifices, and men who took part in that conflict. This Grass Crown fits atop a 30-pace-tall colossus. It is composed of welded brass ‘grass blades’ forming a woven circle roughly a half-pace thick and tall, and seven paces in diameter. It weighs about 2,000 pounds. The crown is a powerful Infernal artifact, and the characters may want to destroy it. This is not easy, as it is protected by the effect Beneath Me, Folly of Thetis!, described earlier. The characters may also worry that there is a good reason why the Mithraic cultists did not destroy it. If they do destroy it, that has little effect on the story; Nero knows that it has been destroyed, and moves ahead with his plans.''

==Option: Piloting the Ship==

''If the Itius does not sink during the battle, the Corax continue to maintain it. Although it has always been crewed by the cultists of Mithras, other characters, or enchantments, could move it, and it is large enough to house a laboratory.''

==The Return==

''If the characters still have the Sphere and the Lodestone, leaving the regio is easy. The Sphere can find the entrance to the lower level, and show them how to get through, and then they can follow the road to the exit. Of course, as the regio moves, the exit could lead anywhere in Mythic Europe. The Grass Crown is large and heavy, and the characters will almost certainly''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Revenant of Caelus==

''Magic Might: 6 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int –2, Per –2, Pre 0, Com –2, Str 0, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Human Magic Qualities and Inferiorities: No Fatigue, Improved Soak (x3), Lesser Power, Baneful Circumstances (outside of Caelus’ Octahedron). Personality Traits: Vengeful +3 Combat: Bony Claws: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +11 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), –5 (16–20), Destroyed (21+) Abilities: Brawl 3 (claws), Cult of Mithras Lore 5 (tasks) Powers: See individual Revenant Grades. Equipment: Tattered burial shroud. Vis: 1 Corpus in skull Appearance: A leering skeleton whose bony fingers are as sharp as claws.''
''These walking skeletons differ from ghosts in that their only form is an ani''
''mate, material corpse where the spirit is bound to a physical body. These beings are connected to the living world through an overwhelming personal need. In this case, the need manifests in the form of servitude to the lore of the Mysteries of Mithras. From this base, each individual spirit derives its own unique personality and motivation. Revenants tend to keep Abilities related to their mortal ties. They are tireless and inexorable opponents. They are immune to fatigue and pain, and having no blood or vital organs, they ignore wounds that would be fatal to a living person. The No Fatigue and Improved Soak Qualities represent this supernatural resilience. Magic can affect both the revenant’s body (Corpus), and the animating spirit (Mentem). Destruction of the body does not harm the spirit, although the spirit lacks any power to affect the physical world once its body is destroyed. The revenant’s attacks are blocked by Magic Resistance, as the physical form is animated through the power of the bound ghost.''

|}
''need to use magic to move it. If desired, the process of getting it back to the covenant could easily give rise to further stories.''

==A Petition==

''If Giuseppe accompanies the characters, he starts to have real doubts about the Brotherhood. He has not previously encountered actual demons, and once he has, the path of virtue seems more appealing. He may abandon the cult, and tell its secrets to the magi, if that will move the story along.''

==Option: A New Home==

''Caelus’ Octahedron is a huge Magic regio that is difficult to gain access to, and thus a possible location for a covenant. As the exit is mobile, such a covenant would have access to a wide range of regions and stories. The cult of Mithras may not be the only ancient group that knew of it, and of at least one place where an entrance could be found. There are also potential stories within the regio. The revenants remain, and at least one character would almost certainly have to join the cult to win them over, although wiping them out is also an option. At present, there are no supplies within the regio, so the covenant would either have to develop them, or find a reliable way to bring them in from outside. The regio may also have further levels, and more inhabitants.''

==Interim==

''Nero and the Brotherhood prepare the Colossus Neronis for their assault on the region. This takes several more years, and Nero uses the time to recruit more cultists, and to allow the characters to think that the threat has passed. The Brotherhood instructs Giuseppe to monitor the covenant, so he tries to build a relationship with it. If he is considering running from the cult, the''
''covenant looks like a relatively safe place to go. The visions of demonic armies do not stop even if the magi recover the crown. The magi could conduct their own investigations, and discover the cult. That discovery precipitates the final story. If the magi do not take the initiative, Nero moves first. In any case, the final battle is upon them.''

==Story III: The Emperor Returns==

''Nero’s plans at last come to fruition, and the colossus rises once more to terrorize the region. The player characters are the people in the best position to stop it. This story starts by assuming that the troupe’s covenant holds the Grass Crown, and that Nero seeks to retrieve it. If, in your saga, the crown has been destroyed, or Nero already holds it, skip straight to The Rise of the Colossus.''

==Retrieving the Crown==

''Nero initiates his plans to take back the Grass Crown. Giuseppe (or another cultist, if Giuseppe has left the cult or died) sends a letter to the covenant, which reads: Seekers of the Itius, the time has come. I am the keeper of the Lodestone, and the rightful owner of the Grass Crown. I have been charged to lay claim to the Crown by the laws of my Brotherhood. I am securing transport and will claim the crown within the month. Giuseppe arrives at the covenant as announced, accompanied by 8 armed guards, a heavy cart, and two draft horses. He expects compliance, as pride is a common failing of diabolists. If the play''
''er characters do simply hand the crown over, he returns the crown directly to the colossus site, and the story moves to The Rise of the Colossus. It is quite likely that the player characters refuse. In that case, Giuseppe does not have a back-up plan. His guards would be insufficient to attack the covenant even if it had no magical support. Giuseppe rages at the magi, but then leaves and returns to the city, nursing a grudge. In this case, Nero decides to use the colossus to regain the Grass Crown. Move to The Rise of the Colossus, but the covenant is the first target of the demons.''

==The Rise of the Colossus==

''The colossus enters the world by tearing its way out of Nero’s Pit and crashes through the Quiet Slope. If the characters still hold the Grass Crown in the covenant, the colossus marches to and attacks the covenant, seeking to regain the crown. If it is unable to damage the covenant, mostly likely because the Aegis is too strong, it''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Manes: The Oarsmen of the Itius==

''Use the statistics for Manes: Lost Souls of Ombres L’assomption, in Story I, earlier, with the following changes. Personality Traits: Devoted to the Itius +5 Abilities: Boatman 5, Latin (storytelling) 5, Navigation (Caelus’ Octahedron) 3, Sailing (hard weather) 5''
''The crew of the ship Itius are now long-dead and performing their tasks until released. When one ‘sits’ upon a rower’s seat within the ship and sings their rowing chants, that bank of oars begins rowing. Note that the oarsman have no idea where they are, nor where they are headed.''

|}
''rampages through the surrounding area, trying to draw the magi out so that Nero’s agents can steal the Grass Crown. If the Grass Crown has been destroyed or lost, the colossus attacks the local town, demanding that the population submit to their new lord. The citizens have little choice, but someone, possibly Giuseppe, goes to the covenant to seek help. The Colossus Neronis is accompanied by demons and cultists as necessary to make a challenging, but not overwhelming, encounter for the players. This is Nero’s full strength, and it is weak. Demons have no patience, and the emperor has moved too soon.''

==The Pit of Nero==

''If the story follows the anticipated line, the characters never come here, as the colossus comes to them, first. However, there are several opportunities for the magi to trace the cultists back, so they may find themselves facing the colossus''
''in its lair. This is inside a hill near the local city. It is a shunned place; where the downtrodden, lost, and exiled are rumored to flee. It is where the suicides surrender themselves. The side of the hill is known as the Quiet Slope. The Slope itself has an Infernal aura of 3. The air is completely still and feels cold. Obvious, safe-looking paths are filled with ankle-twisting hidden roots and leaf-covered holes. Small limbs have grown woven together, so that they whip out when people push through them, striking the face and neck. Fungi spout rash-inducing clouds of spores if disturbed. Vines sport thorns. For each hour of movement roll Perception + Awareness + stress dice against an Ease Factor of 9. Failure results in the environment causing 1 Light wound. Botches result in the environment causing 1 Medium wound. The Slope is the site of the guildhall of the Brotherhood of Zenodorus. Most people avoid visiting it, due to the illfavored area. Near the hall is an entrance to the Infernal regio containing the Pit of Nero, and Green Snakes of Malebolge, from the regio, are often found on the hillside.''

==Inside the Pit of Nero==

''The Pit is an Abyssal regio (see Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 16), with an Infernal aura of 4 that imposes in the numbing chill of being forsaken by God. Mechanically, each of the eight characteristics is reduced by 4. Further, characters must make an Intelligence stress roll against an Ease Factor of 4 every day that they are in the regio. Failure results in madness represented by Flaws such as Compulsion, Delusion, or Depressed. This madness fades over the''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Crown Sinks==

''What happens if the Grass Crown sinks? The demons have no way of retrieving it, so it is, effectively, lost forever. Nero gives up on retrieving it, and moves to the next stage of his plan. If the Mithraists had known this, they would have simply thrown the thing into the ocean in the regio. Alas, they did not know, and so they concocted a much more elaborate plan.''

|}
''course of four weeks unless the roll was a botch, in which case it is permanent. Nero’s Pit resembles a subterranean wagon wheel. The body of the colossus stands at its hub, with six gigantic hallway ‘spokes’ connecting outward to the halls that once housed the various sections of the colossus after it had been disassembled. Unless the characters come here very early, the colossus is probably complete, and Nero animates it as soon as the invasion is noticed.''

==The Colossus==

''The structure of the colossus is bronze empowered by the Infernal magics of the Cult of Zenodorus, and it has the powers listed in On Isometric Figures, earlier. It has an Infernal Might of 12, which acts as an Infernal aura of 2 within the structure, and Nero’s ghost can control and move the colossus, using his skills to direct it. The colossus is hollow, with ten internal levels that serve as both structural support and floors for supplies and personnel. Nero knows about Magic Resistance, and he has supplied his troops with mundane weapons.''

==Larvae==

''Order: Fury Infernal Might: 10 (Mentem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +2, Str +3, Sta +2, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: None Personality Traits: Unyielding +3, Diplomatic –2 Reputations: Tormentor of the Dead +2 Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Brawl (corporeal form): Init +0, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage +3 Dodge (corporeal form): Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Brawl 2 (dodge), Infernal Lore 5 (undead), Latin 5 (curses), Magic Lore 3 (magical traditions), Stealth 5 (sneak). Powers: Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus. See Lemures, earlier. Envisioning (An entombed landscape of the target’s most inspiring place), 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem. See Lemures, earlier. Fraudulent Desires, 3 points, Init –3, Mentem. See Father Carth’s Ghost, earlier.''
''Guide, 4 points, Init –4, Mentem: The larva is able to subtly guide visitors in a desired direction, or to a desired location. The victim feels a strong emotional urge to go to that place, and while this is not a compulsion, the target would need to have a good reason to try to resist. Mask of Change, 6 points, Init –5, Imaginem: A mask that represents a specific sin appears over the target’s face. The effect is two-fold. First, the target is disguised, as in Disguise of the Transformed Image. Second, the target gains a sinful personality trait +3, with the same effects as the Power Fury of the False Veneer. This effect has Sun duration. Obsession (Manipulating Acts of Kindness), 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Weakness: The rite Lemuria, which consists of the sharing of a meal in the presence of the Larvae. The demon’s Might is reduced to 0 for a year and a day upon the conclusion of the meal. Vis: 1 pawn of Infernal Mentem in the form of a cold, black shimmer of static shadow. Appearance: The larvae appear similar to their mortal forms, but with their faces twisted by some sin. These larvae have mostly been twisted by avarice, envy, or wrath.''
''When walking, the colossus moves 21 paces per step, and each footprint is 1–3 paces deep, depending upon the surface. Note that the below Characteristics are directly affected by the colossus’ Might score. If its Might is reduced, the Characteristics are reduced as well. Characteristics: Str +24 (Size + Might), Dex +6 (half Might), Qik +0 (Might – Size) Size: +12 Combat Ability is based upon Nero’s training added to the colossus’ body. Foot Fall, Init –1, Attack +11, Defense +4, Damage +27 Fist Bash, Init +0, Attack +11, Defense +5, Damage +24 Soak: +31 (Might + Size + 6 (metal)) Note that the colossus is immune to damage from mundane, non-living materials,''
''due to Beneath Me, Folly of Thetis! Wound Penalties: –1 (1–17), –3 (18– 34), –5 (35–51), Incapacitated (52–68), Destroyed (69+) Moving within the walking colossus requires all corporeal beings to make balance checks every time the colossus attacks (Dexterity + Athletics + stress die against an Ease Factor of 9, –1 for every level above the ground). Failure results in a Light wound, botches result in a Medium wound.''
''Level 10: The Upper Head: Nero observes with the colossus’ eyes and is in a constant state of concentration to operate it. If the ghost comes under direct attack, Nero abandons the control of the colossus, leaving it to stand idle.''
''Level 9: The Lower Face: This level is empty, but archers could shoot from the mouth.''
''Level 8: Shoulders: Weapon storage for Roman short swords and stonemasons’ hammers.''
''Level 7: Chest: 5 Stylobate and 1 Plinth cultists are stationed here, each suffering from 1–3 light or medium wounds due to failed balance checks during the colossus’ movement. All are armed with short bows and 10 arrows, along with a simple hand weapon (hammers and chisels).''
''Level 6: Stomach: This area is wide open and empty, as the colossus flexes here.''
''Level 5: Waist: 12 Stylobate archers''

==Nero, the Infernal Ghost==

''Order: False God Infernal Might: 25 (Imaginem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre -3, Com +3, Str –3, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +3 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Sense Holiness and Unholiness, Thief of Emotions (see Spirits of Fraud, earlier); Cruel, Disfigured, Wrathful Personality Traits: Cruel +5, Wrathful +3, Angry +2 Reputations: Corrupt Emperor 9 Hierarchy: 5 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Kick: Init –1, Attack +6 (+9 if Fury Power is used), Defense +5, Damage +0 Short Spear: Init +2, Attack +8 (+11 if Fury Power is used), Defense +6, Damage +2 Short Sword: Init +1, Attack +10 (+13 if Fury Power is used), Defense +8, Damage +2 Soak: +12 (corporeal form) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Area Lore: Ancient Rome 5 (politics), Area Lore: Local Area 2 (politics), Artes Liberales 5 (rhetoric), Athletics 1 (running), Brawl 5 (dodge), Charm 2 (first impressions), Civil and Canon Law 4 (Ancient Rome), Emotion Theft 5 (trust), Folk Ken 4 (nobles), Guile 4 (elaborate lies), Latin 5 (expansive vocabulary), Infernal Lore 5 (summoning), Public Speaking 5 (large groups), Sense Holiness and Unholiness 3 (evil), Stealth 5 (shadowing) Powers: Envisioning (A Rome of impossible beauty), 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem. See Lemures, earlier. Fury of the False Veneer, 2 points, Init 0, Imaginem. See DuPurin’s Ghost, earlier. Infatuation, 4 points, Init +0, Imaginem. See Spirits of Fraud, earlier. Incorporeal, 0 points, Init constant, Mentem. Nero is visible and can be smelled, but he cannot be touched or harmed by physical means. The Lie Affirmed, 1 points, Init 0, Mentem. See Spirits of Fraud, earlier. Lord of the Structure, 5 points, Init +5, Form Terram. See DuPurin’s Ghost, earlier. Mastery of Misdirection, 1–8 points,''
''Init +0, Imaginem. See Spirits of Fraud, earlier. Obsession (worship Nero/the colossus), 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Possession, var points, Init +2, Mentem. See DuPurin’s Ghost, earlier. Weakness: Groups (3 or more) of united, educated men within a Room. Nero suffers from Confusion of the Numbed Will for as long as the group remains intact and in the area. Vis: 5 pawns of Infernal Vis; each pawn located in a digit of his right hand. Appearance: Nero’s ghost appears as he did upon his death: a frightened monarch in his early thirties. His death wound eternally weeps life-blood, leaving a stained trail wherever he wanders (the trail disappears once he is a pace away). He stands about 5 feet tall, marked with freckles, and stinks of the dead. His hair is sandy blond, and he has watery blue eyes. He has a thick neck, round belly, and thin legs.''
''Nero has been imbued with the incantation My Symbol Shall Come Unto Me. This allows Nero to summon the colossus to his location at a cost of 3 Might points.''
''near slot windows, wounded as the group on Level 7.''
''Level 4: Upper Leg: Prisoner shackles (currently empty).''
''Level 3: Knee: This area is open and empty, as the colossus flexes here.''
''Level 2: Calf: Doors to the outside.''
''Level 1: Foot: Green Snakes are housed in here, and crawl out into the colossus’ footprints through holes in the bronze.''

==The Story’s End==

''The defeat of the spirit of Nero is a fitting end to the story, but these events could have further consequences. The colossus may have done great damage to the local area, which needs to be repaired. The Brotherhood of Zenodorus may still exist, if they were not clearly linked to the colossus, and even if they do not, On Isometric Figures can bring the cult back. The Quaesitors may be interested in the amount of Infernal activity around the covenant, and the troupe may not have fully resolved the ownership of Ombres and Caelus’ Octahedron.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Grass Crown==

''If the colossus has the Grass Crown, Nero merges fully with the structure. Their Mights are added, for a total Might of 37, and an internal Infernal aura of 7, and Nero’s ghost can no longer be attacked independently of the colossus. Characters who study On Isometric Figures realize this, and may wonder why they were supposed to retrieve the crown. It would, indeed, have been better for the characters to destroy the Grass Crown, or leave it in Caelus’ Octahedron. People do not always choose the wisest course.''

==Green Snakes of Malebolge==

''Order: False God Infernal Might: 10 (Imaginem) Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre –6, Com +2, Str –8, Sta +2, Dex +4, Qik +5 Size: –4 Virtues and Flaws: Lightning Reflexes; Infamous Personality Traits: Proud +3, Hostile +3, Merciful –4 Reputations: None Hierarchy: 4 Combat: Bite (fangs): Init +5, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage –7 (see Powers: Venomous Bite) Bite (surprised): Init +14, Attack +10, Defense +9, Damage –7 (see Powers: Venomous Bite) Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1), –3 (2), –5 (3), Incapacitated (4), Dead (5) Abilities: Awareness 4 (prey), Brawl 2 (fangs), Hunt 4 (rodents), Latin 5 (curses), Stealth 4 (stalking prey), Survival 3 (grasslands)''
''Powers: Envisioning (A veneer of an opulence hiding a decayed world), 1 or 5 points, Init +5, Mentem. See Lemures, earlier. His Master’s Voice, var points, Init +6, Vim: The demon summons other demons or corrupt beasts to its current location. This costs one Might Point for every point of Infernal Might of the being summoned, so is used sparingly. The demon has no control over the demon it has summoned. Lend Senses, 1 points, Init +5, Mentem: The demon touches the target to share its sense of smell. The target gains the ability to discriminate odors as well as a bloodhound. This effect lasts until the target sees a religious act of one of the Divine religions. Obsession (Avaricious), 1–3 points, Init 0, Vim. See Lemures, earlier. Shroud the Stench of the Pit, var points, Init +8, Vim: Might cost equal to target Power’s Might cost. If used to shroud another Infernal Power, the said power appears Magical or Faerie in origin. It can also be used to make a Power appear mundane to super''
''natural detection, but if the power is not subtle mundane senses may be enough to determine that it is supernatural. The Shroud has the same duration as the targeted Power. Venomous Bite, 2 points, Init +8, Aquam. See DuPurin’s Black Dogs, earlier. The Wealth of Nations, 3 points, Init +5, Terram: The demon summons riches (things with intrinsic value, not useful objects) equal in value to 1 pound of gold per point of current Might score (before spending the points for this effect). The wealth is summoned from some other place, and the previous owner is unlikely to be happy. Weakness: The Green Snakes cannot touch or act against people with True Faith at all, nor against anyone touching them. Vis: 2 pawns of Imaginem vis in a belly scale. Appearance: A small, emerald green snake no longer than a hand’s length, whose shadow twists and turns against normal light sources, even when the body is still.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
