
[|
''This series of stories centers around a mound, an ancient burial site used a millennium ago by a pagan religion. The natives worshiped the Dark One, a powerful demon posing as a chthonic harvest god. During the spring and autumn festivals, the nearby clans assembled and offered young men and women as grooms and brides to the Dark One, in exchange for good weather and healthy crops. At the climax of the worshipers’ rituals, the false god rose from below, accompanied by his demon minions, and accepted the offered youths. The newlyweds then followed the god into the mound and never returned. A Christian saint converted the pagans several centuries later, and entombed their god in the mound. Generations passed and the mound was forgotten. Hidden in a dense peat bog, it sat ignored for decades. Recently a young magus named Crispus discovered mention of it in old church chronicles. Exploring beneath its mossy turf, Crispus awakened the mound’s evil and released its ancient horror. The first story, “The Missing Magus,” introduces the player characters to the mound and the two hostile baronies on either side of it. The second adventure, “The Red Knights Return,” brings the magi back to the mound to stop the demon’s minions from assembling an army, in anticipation of their master’s return. In the final adventure, “The Blessed Union,” the magi are invited to a wedding that will finally bring peace to the fractious neighbors, but diabolical forces would rather resurrect the old god. The first adventure can be extremely dangerous, and is not recommended for young magi, unless one or more are demon hunters. The second adventure''
''follows five years after, and the third five years after that. The default setting for the Mound is the Hibernian Tribunal, but it can easily be moved to the player characters’ Tribunal. Suggestions for doing so are found in the accompanying sidebar.''

==Story I: The Missing Magus==

''In the year of Our Lord 465, the Apostle of Ireland traveled to Magh Slécht (the plain of prostrations), where the Dark One, a pagan god of blood and human sacrifice, had a mound of worship, at which the tribes gathered to venerate wickedness, perfidy, lust, and villainy. From his grassy hill the Dark One assaulted the saint with his fiendish legions, but St. Patrick prevailed and struck down the pagan god with his righteous anger. — From the annals of Domnach Mór (Big Church) in Templeport parish''
''Crispus, a respected hunter from House Flambeau, read about the mound in the old church records at Templeport. He searched the peat bog unsuccessfully until he met a local boy who led him to the mound. Forcing an entry, Crispus uncovered a series of subterranean Infernal regiones, one of which contained the bodies of the brides and grooms wedded to the chthonic deity. Instead of resting peacefully, the corpses were animated by demons. A few days later the regio temporarily opened, on the anniversary of the ancient pagan spring festival, and the demons escaped into the bog. Villagers from the two bordering baronies''
''regularly harvest peat from the bog for turf, which they chop, dry, and then burn for fuel. The demons, called “revenants,” attacked the turf-cutters, killing several and driving off the rest. The villagers of both baronies blame those of the other for somehow inflicting this nightmare upon them. Meanwhile, Crispus does not return, and eventually his parens, Aster Mor, asks the magi for help.''

==Starting Things Off==

''Aster Mor visits the covenant, arriving without escort or luggage. He asks to speak to the magi, and once they are assembled he explains his visit. “Crispus, my friend and former apprentice, is missing.” Aster Mor looks at each of the listening magi. “From what I have gathered, Crispus learned of an ancient burial mound and went to explore it. He is known for hunting monsters, of all types and from all realms. He has been gone for two months and not returned. I ask your assistance in retrieving him or information about him.” If a player succeeds with an Intelligence + Order of Hermes Lore + a simple roll against an Ease Factor of 6, his character has heard of Crispus. A magus a few years out of apprenticeship, Crispus has made a name for himself by slaying monsters, evil faeries, and minor demons. Aster Mor says that Crispus told him about the mound after reading the old monastic records at Domnach Mór, a church in the village of Templeport in the Kingdom of Briefne. He left with five warriors, and that was the last As''
''ter Mor saw of him. He suggests that the characters travel to Templeport to pick up Crispus’ trail. He apologizes if asked to join the rescue party, stressing that he has other, more pressing responsibilities that he must attend to. How they travel from their home covenant to the mound is left in the storyguide’s capable hands.''

==The Location, an Overview==

''The adventure takes place in a large bog, which serves as the border between two baronies, Tullyhaw to the northwest and Tullyhunco to the southeast. Both baronies are in the Kingdom of Briefne and both barons are vassals of Ualagarg mac Cathail Leith, King of Briefne. Each barony is ruled by a single, large family, whose extensions and client vassals serve as the feudal government. Tullyhaw is governed by Gillisa McGovern, the head of the clan and known as “The McGovern,” a common Irish practice for naming a clan’s leader. Tullyhunco is ruled by Hugh McTiernan, called “The McTiernan.” Population centers in both baronies include several villages, a score or so stone fortresses for the local nobility, and the baron’s castle. Each village is surrounded by a wooden palisade and holds a score of wattle and daub huts. At night the villagers lock themselves in their huts and secure their cattle in attached byres. During the day the herds are at pasture, overseen by the men, while the women and children work the fields just outside the palisade. The stone fortresses are larger operations, each holding a noble, his family, and a dozen household knights. The baronial castles hold the baron, his family, thirty or so servants, and a score of household knights. Templeport is a Tullyhaw monastery, surrounded by a wooden palisade and containing several rude cottages, a tall stone watchtower, and a large wooden church called Domnach Mór. The monastery is well known within the Tribunal and easy to find.''
''In Mythic Ireland, monasteries include both the monks who work for God and those who work for the monks, farmers and crofters and their families, making Templeport akin to a small village. The bog that separates the two baronies is approximately two miles wide and six miles long. Both baronies are densely wooded and hilly, pock-marked with pastures and ponds. Templeport is 14 miles northwest of the bog, which takes a walker a day to transverse and a rider half a day. The McGovern’s castle is seven miles north of Templeport and 21 miles from the bog. The McTiernan’s castle in Tullyhunco is 15 miles southeast of the bog. Villages lie on either side of the bog, the closest being within one mile. Play may drift to the smaller settlements, but the most likely settings are the monastery at Templeport and the bog that separates Tullyhaw from Tullyhunco. A baron’s castle will not come into play until the second or third story.''

==Templeport & Domnach Mór (The Big Church)==

''The monastery at Templeport regularly receives visitors. The palisade gate is open and unguarded, and the grounds inside are bustling with summer activity. Templeport is governed by the abbot, Father Pádraig, a cheerful man with bright blue eyes and wooly white hair. Working alongside him is Father Uallachán, a short and serious priest who has assisted Pádraig for many years. As the player characters enter, a lowly monk greets them, asking them their business and if they are staying overnight. If an unGifted character interacts with the monk, the group is led to a private building for their night’s stay. If a Gifted member leads the discussion, the monk puts them in an empty cattle byre for their stay. When the player characters ask for the abbot, the monk quickly complies. Pádraig and Uallachán greet the visitors. Both are helpful if they are interacting with an unGifted individual, but cool and reserved when speaking''
''with a Gifted magus. Pádraig remembers Crispus, who was allowed access to the monastery’s library after making a substantial donation. He was only allowed to stay three days — the limit of the monastery’s hospitality obligation — and Father Uallachán had to be present. Uallachán says that he was suspicious of Crispus’ intentions, but he obeyed his abbot’s direction none the less. Crispus found a mention of a pagan mound where Crom Dubh, which translates to “the Dark One,” was once worshipped, hidden in a bog southeast of the church. Uallachán says that Crispus calculated that the chronicle meant the bog that still sits between Tullyhaw and Tullyhunco and immediately took his group in that direction. If asked, Uallachán shows the magi the relevant page, taking only an hour to go through the church rolls kept in the church’s basement. Pádraig confirms Aster Mor’s time line; Crispus arrived approximately two months ago, a month before the May Day celebration. If asked what that is, Pádraig says it is the Feast of Saint Ceallach, a martyred bishop from the 6th century, which happens halfway between the spring equinox and the summer solstice. There are other clues about Crom Dubh in the church records, clues that Crispus didn’t find and Uallachán has yet to uncover. Access to the records can be gained through the smooth social interactions of an unGifted character, a generous donation of at least 10 Mythic Pounds, or magic. If a character spends a day reading the church chronicles, effectively a library on Area Lore: Briefne (+4 on Research rolls), Church Lore (+2), and Infernal Lore (+1), let the player make a Research roll (Intelligence + Ability + simple die), using one of the Abilities just mentioned. If the research roll succeeds against an Ease Factor of 9, the character discovers the history of Crom Dubh, a chthonic deity that traded human sacrifices for good harvests, and his banishment by Saint Patrick. Finally, the reader discovers that the Feast of Ceallach is the rechristened Bealtaine feast, the same pagan holiday on which Crom Dubh was celebrated.''

|]
''Pádraig and Uallachán are continuing characters whom the magi will meet in all three stories. Ultimately, they will both be deceived by Infernal agents and together attempt to return Crom Dubh. At this point, Uallachán is tainted by the Infernal, but under the delusion that his powers are granted by pagan gods rather than demons. Uncertain in his abilities, Uallachán will not take any measures to interfere with the magi.''

==En Route to the Mound==

''Leaving Templeport, the magi head southeast toward the bog. It is easy enough to avoid population centers if the magi wish. Anyone from Templeport can supply adequate directions to the bog, so the magi can travel the entire 14 mile distance without interruption. The''
''weather is beautiful, late spring under a blue sky, and the group travels through grassy meadows bordered by flowering cherry and crab apple trees. As they near their destination, the magi notice a group of six local warriors riding toward the bog. An Intelligence + Area Lore: Briefne + a simple die against an Ease Factor of 6 indicates that they are Tullyhaw knights. They ask the magi a few simple questions: who are they, where are they from, where are they going? The knights explain that several of the local villeins working in the bog have been attacked by revenants. They are certain that the baron of Tullyhunco is somehow behind the attacks, and they plan to ride through the swamp and raid Tullyhunco. The knights conclude by saying that the baron of Tullyhaw plans to raid Tullyhunco in the near future. Players might wonder if Crispus was involved in the revenants’ attacks. If the knights are asked about Crispus, they say that some local folks had spotted a strange man in long black robes accompanied by a small band of warriors heading for the bog. They thought nothing of it at the time, but now think that the man was a wizard working for Tullyhunco to raise the dead from the bog. If the magi avoid the knights, they enter the swamp without this knowledge.''

==Inside the Bog==

''This large wetland is cloaked in thick fog, which curls in wispy eddies and limits vision to a dozen paces. Tawny thorn bushes, stunted yellow willows, and dreary green weeds grow unkempt. The bog is covered by an Infernal aura of 1, a lasting remnant of the violence from the distant past. Moving through the bog is difficult, and players must make Stamina + stress die rolls against an Ease Factor of 6 after an hour of travel. Failure costs characters a Long-Term Fatigue level, and botching costs an additional Fatigue Level per botch. While searching, the group sees another party of six knights, dismounted and guiding their reluctant steeds. Tul''
''lyhunco knights, they face the same problem and have the same misguided intentions as their Tullyhaw neighbors. If questioned, they explain that Tullyhunco villagers who work the bog have been mauled by revenants, and they assume that some Tullyhaw wizard has risen the dead that legends claim live in the area. They have not seen Crispus or anyone matching his description. They also say that the baron of Tullyhunco will soon ride to Tullyhaw, leading a large band of knights. Another hour of wandering and the magi hear cries for help. Rushing forward, they see two revenants scrabbling to get up a tree and failing, and a young boy precariously balanced in the tree’s lower branches. If the magi do nothing except watch, the revenants tirelessly claw at the tree, and after a few hours the tired boy will fall from his branch and be torn to pieces. This also happens if the magi wander off, although they won’t witness the boy’s demise. If they destroy the revenants, the boy climbs down and thanks them. Unsettled as he might be by the magi’s Gift, he is grateful to his saviors. He is Tadhg McGovern, one of the baron’s sons. He has been fostered to an uncle that lives in a nearby village, and routinely sneaks out to explore the bog. He spotted the wizard Crispus and secretly followed him as he fruitlessly searched the bog. Eventually discovered by Crispus’ grogs, Tadhg learned that Crispus sought the mound. Tadhg knows where it lies, saying that he can sometimes, “see things that others can’t see.” The magi should eventually realize that Tadhg has Second Sight and can see regio boundaries. Tadhg says he met Crispus a week before the Feast of Saint Ceallach. Tadhg led Crispus and his grogs to the mound, watched them enter it, and then returned to the village. A few days after the holiday, villagers started saying there were revenants in the bog, and some were even attacked. Tadhg reduced his explorations of the bog, but didn’t cease entirely. Today was the first time he saw a revenant, two in fact, and he raced to the tree once they saw him. He knows the way home and needs no further as''

[|

==A Warmer Beginning==

''The story’s opening is fairly cold, designed as a universal entrance for player characters across the spectrum of sagas. You can warm it up by personalizing it for your player characters. Aster Mor can be introduced beforehand, or replaced by another, more familiar, storyguide character. The role is small and can be filled by a character generated from a player character’s Virtue or Flaw: Mentor, Patron, or even an Enemy. The magi might owe some service to Aster Mor or his covenant, or offer aid to grease the wheels of a future interaction. If you have taken the suggestion and placed the mound within your player characters’ Tribunal, a second option is to have one of the villagers ask for help with the revenants in the bog. This complicates the adventure’s beginning because the magi will find the mound before knowing about Crispus, and may miss the interaction with Pádraig and Uallachán at Templeport. They can be introduced later, accompanying the barons to the mound for the adventure’s conclusion.''

|]
''sistance from the magi. If asked, Tadhg will guide the magi to the mound within an hour, considering it an obligation to the people who saved his life. If the magi don’t want such guidance, they must find the mound on their own. Hopefully they have ways of spotting regio boundaries. If not, the mound’s regio boundary is apparent to all for two minutes at sunrise and again at sunset, and the player characters find it. There is also a chance that they run into one or two revenants. Use your judgment when determining whether your group of player characters meets any revenants. Strong groups might relish fighting two or three of the shambling dead, while weaker parties parties could quickly be overwhelmed by more than a single revenant.''

==The Mound==

''The mound is hidden in an Infernal regio with an aura of 1, the same strength as the Infernal aura in the bog. Those with Second Sight can see the regio boundary on a successful Perception + Second Sight + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 5. Hermetic Intellego Vim spells can also spot the regio boundary (see ArM5 page 158, Piercing the Faerie Veil, for equivalent spells), and once the boundary is spotted a character can easily enter the regio. Those without such capabilities cannot see the boundary or find the mound. However, the boundary opens at sunrise and sunset, letting anyone view and thus enter the mound’s regio. It only stays open for two minutes, but that should be enough time for the group to get through. Approximately 350 feet in diameter and 40 feet high, the mound is a hill rising above the mire. Its slopes''
''are overgrown with weeds and black thorn bushes, and a pair of stunted willows stands on the top like horns atop the devil’s head. The original entrance to the mound was destroyed centuries ago. Crispus reopened the entrance, and the evidence of rocks and stones piled around the dark opening is apparent. The interior passageway is lined with six-foot tall stones on both walls and ceiling. The tunnel runs straight for 100 feet before ending in a small room with three alcoves. The alcove across the tunnel holds a bench-like pedestal with a small depression in its otherwise flat top. The alcoves to the left and right are empty. This area once served as a minor sacrificial site for the cult, where small items and foodstuffs were offered to the god by individual supplicants. A regio boundary lies at the very end of the tunnel. Once a year the regio boundary opens, on the morning of the pagan Bealtaine holiday, when''

[|

==It’s All in the Names==

''As written, this set of stories is located in the Hibernian Tribunal. Moving the location to the player characters’ Tribunal makes the threat more immediate and their participation less forced. To relocate the adventure, change the names of the principle storyguide characters and the locations. The social framework — lord, vassal, cleric, and peasant — is standard enough to fit in any area of Mythic Europe, and every location has an ancient pagan god that the villagers worshiped before the arrival of Christianity. Following is a list of suggested name changes for three other ArM5 tribunals.''
''Story Element Hibernia  Thebes Normandy  Rhine The Dark One Crom Dubh  Kore  Dis Pater  Nerthus Baronies  Tullyhaw  Kalpaki Bayeux   Duchy of Limburg    Tullyhunco  Konitsa Caen   County of Jülich Barons  The McGovern (Gillisa) Gregoras Glabas Renaud de Ville-Thierry Duke Henry III    The McTiernan (Hugh) Theodoulos Tagaris	Pierre du Thillia  Count William IV Feudal Lord  King of Briefne  Despot of Epirus Duke of Normandy Holy Roman Emperor    Ualagarg mac Cathail Leith	 Theodore Ducas (see below)  Frederick II Heirs  Tadhg McGovern Thomas Glabas Étienne de Ville-Thierry Waleran    Fiona McTiernan  Zoe Tagaris Isabelle du Thillia Matilda Abbot  Pádraig  Meletios Anseau (chancellor) Philippus Priest  Uallachán  Vitus  Oliverus  Wikerus''
''In the Thebes Tribunal, baronies are called districts. Titans are sometimes bound underground, and Crispus was likely looking for a trapped titan when he entered the mound. In Normandy, baronies are called bailliages. The position of the duke of Normandy is vacant, his powers assumed by the king of France, although King Henry III of England has a strong claim to the title. In the Rhine Tribunal, the contestants are William, the Count of Jülich, and Henry, the Duke of Limburg. The demon is female, a False Goddess named “Nerthus.” If a bog is not suitable for the wasteland between baronies, change it to a cave, hidden ravine, dense forest, or some other type of lonely, forsaken place that is hard to cultivate.''

|]
''the morning sun shines directly down the passageway and hits the bench-like pedestal. When this occurs, the rear wall vanishes, revealing another long passageway on the other side of the pedestal. Character then step over the pedestal and enter the next regio level, which has an Infernal aura of 2. If opened on Bealtaine, the boundary stays open for 24 hours. Last Bealtaine, the revenants roused by Crispus escaped into the bog when the regio boundary opened. Like most regiones in Mythic Europe, this re''
''gio can also be spotted and entered by Hermetic magic and other supernatural powers. The Ease Factor for a Perception + Second Sight roll to see the boundary is 6.''
''The Hall of Revenants Regio''
''The next regio level is another long passageway leading to another small room of three alcoves. Unlike the regio level below, this passageway has''
''archways on both walls. The archways are blocked by stacked stones that rise almost to the top of the archway, leaving a foot-high space that serves as a window. The archway immediately to the characters’ left is open, and the stones that used to block it are scattered around the archway. Past the opening is an oval chamber, in the center of which lie three dead warriors and two butchered revenants. The warriors are Crispus’ shield grogs. There is no evidence of Crispus or his other grogs. When the mound was a site of active worship, the sacrificed brides and grooms would be placed in these rooms and later animated by demons. When Saint Patrick drove the Dark One from the mound, a team of priests sealed these rooms by blocking their entrances with the stone. The revenants, active and semi-alert on the other side of the stone barricade, cannot remove the stones themselves. During his exploration, Crispus breached one of the archways. His group was quickly overcome by the sheer number of rushing demons. Rather than retreat completely, he led the survivors deeper into the mound, hoping that the revenants were the mound’s only occupants. When the boundary to the lower regio opened on the morning of Bealtaine, the loosed revenants escaped into the bog. The slain grogs have weapons and armor that may be helpful to the magi and their party. The passageway has nine more archways, each blocked by stacked stones. Each archway leads to a room that holds 20 revenants, who shuffle about restlessly. When the demons notice the group, likely from the party’s source of illumination, they crowd the entrance and claw against the stones seeking escape. Reaching through the window, a revenant can attack someone in the hallway with a –3 modifier. While they are supernaturally barred from knocking the blocking stones over, anyone else can push the barricade over easily with a successful Strength + stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6. The three alcoves at the end of the tunnel hold the boundary to the next level of the regio. Hermetic magic can''

[|

==Father Pádraig==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta –2, Dex –2, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 58 (52) Decrepitude: 1 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Clumsy, Monastic Vows, Regular Personality Traits: Bureaucratic +3, Orderly +2, Greedy (for money) +1 Reputations: Wise Leader 4 (Ecclesiastic) Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense –2, Damage n/a Soak: –2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20),''
''Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal handling 2 (cows), Area Lore: Briefne 4 (10) (Ecclesiastical properties), Artes Liberales 2 (Rhetoric), Athletics 1 (running), Awareness 1 (lost cows), Civil and Canon Law 6 (tithing), Folk Ken 2 (local barons), Intrigue 3 (local barons), Irish 5 (agricultural terms), Latin 4 (church use), Leadership 3 (monks), Philosophiae 2 (natural philosophiae), Profession: Farmer 3 (10) (cows), Profession: Preaching 4 (messages of charity), Profession: Scribe 4 (5) (copying gospels), Stealth 1 (moving quietly), Theology 3 (the trinity) Equipment: Monk’s habit and walking cane Appearance: Father Pádraig has broad''
''shoulders and a straight back, despite his advanced years. His smiling face is bordered by white hair and a thick beard, and his lively eyes still sparkle beneath thick gray eyebrows.''
''Father Pádraig was born in the Kingdom of Briefne, a son of a prosperous farmer. Entering the Church at an early age, he has been a member of the monastic community at Templeport for over 20 years. Ten years ago he became the abbot, taking over the duties of his aging uncle. Pádraig knows about the long-standing tensions between the two baronies. Living closer to the border than The McGovern, he regularly advises the baron to keep the peace. His words are not always heeded, and Father Pádraig concentrates on keeping his monastery safe.''

==Father Uallachán==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre +3, Com +3, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex –2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 36 (36) Decrepitude: 0 (0) Warping Score: 0 (0) Confidence Score: 1 (8) Virtues and Flaws: Diabolist, Priest; Ablating, Commanding, Incantation, Psychomachia, Summoning; Affinity with Summoning, Improved Characteristics, Mentored by Demons, Student of Infernal (free); Driven (to return the old gods), Tragic Life; Corrupted Abilities, Manufactured Ignorance, Vow of Celibacy, Witch Marks Personality Traits: Determined to Raise the Old Gods +3, Shrewd +3, Convincing +2 Reputations: Worships False Gods 1 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 1 Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20),''
''Dead (21+) Abilities: Ablating 5 (Furies), Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Awareness 1 (searching books), Brawl 2 (dodge), Charm 2 (nobles), Church Lore 2 (dioceses), Commanding 11 (Furies), Concentration 2 (maintaining summoning), Diablerie 5 (auras and regiones), Guile 3 (lying to laity), Incantation 4 (5) (against noblemen), Irish 5 (religious terms), Infernal Lore 3 (demons), Italian 2 (church terms), Latin 3 (church terms), (Corrupted) Leadership 4 (intimidate), Penetration 2 (Summoning), Psychomachia 5 (control peasants), Summoning 8 (False Gods), Theology 1 (mass) Equipment: A simple brown robe. Favored Maleficia: A Second Thought in the Face of the Fiend (Incantation/Psychomachia 15/+14) This maleficia makes the target want to return home, wherever that is. The effect wears off in two minutes, but lasts long enough to defuse many tense situations. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Diameter) Appearance: Father Uallachán is short and stooped with a hawkish nose and thinning brown hair. When he smiles he appears avuncular and kind; when he''
''frowns he becomes terrible and fierce. Father Uallachán was born and trained in Dublin (or another large city if you have relocated the story). During a pilgrimage to Rome he met and was deceived by a demon claiming to be one of the city’s pagan gods. By granting the priest supernatural powers, the demon seduced Uallachán into believing that the old gods should worshiped alongside the Christian God. He does not overtly espouse this belief at this time. Completing his journey, Uallachán returned home and relocated to Templeport, following the Italian demon’s advice. He quietly works to resurrect Crom Dubh and reinstate him as the local deity. He does not realize that he is Infernally tainted, thinking that his supernatural powers are those of an ancient religion rather than Satan’s brood. At this point in the adventures, Uallachán is researching Templeport’s church rolls and the surrounding area. He is specifically looking for the True Name of Crom Dubh, which he has not yet found. He helped Crispus find the mention of Crom Dubh and gave the magus directions to the bog. He is curious about what happened to the magus, but not curious enough to explore the bog himself.''

|]
''allow a caster to view the boundary, and the Ease Factor for a Perception + Second Sight roll is 6. The boundary also becomes visible if human blood is poured into the shallow depression in the middle of the pedestal. To those who can see it, the boundary looks like a wall of fog that replaces the far alcove’s back wall. Stepping through this fog leads to the next level.''
''The Chamber of Sacrifices Regio''
''Stepping into the next level, with an Infernal aura of 3, the characters see a large chamber lined with rough-cut square blocks of black obsidian stone. The chamber runs 30 paces deep and 15 paces wide, with a 20-foot high ceiling. A heavy iron chandelier hangs from the ceiling, unlit candles sitting in their sockets. At the far end of the room, beneath the hanging chandelier, is a pit, 10 feet in diameter and 30 feet''
''deep. Shallow alcoves are cut along the wall. The chamber’s fetid air makes breathing difficult. Penalize all physical activity rolls by –1 and include an extra botch die. An angry buzzing of flies fills the room, although no actual fly can be found, penalizing all auditory Awareness rolls by –3. When the mound was an active pagan site, victims would be sacrificed here, their blood collected to fill the pit sitting at the end of the room. Near the center of the room lie the bodies of Crispus and two shield grogs, savagely torn asunder, limbs scattered across the floor. The magus’ body has been badly mauled, but it is not in pieces like his two former shield grogs. Besides his traveling clothes and oak staff, he has four hardened acorns in a pouch, each a pawn of Creo vis. The two grogs have been torn to pieces and their martial equipment scattered. Their long swords and chainmail are potential loot. Two long spears lie nearby, their''
''heads broken off, and can be used in combat as staffs. A magus may be powerful enough to cast the spell Whispers through the Black Gate. If so, he can speak with Crispus’ ghost by talking to Crispus’ corpse. The ghost says that he was curious about the site after discovering it in the Templeport church rolls. He quickly ascertained that it was Infernal, and hoped to slay as many demons as he could. The revenants were too much for his group, and he hoped to rest and regain lost fatigue before tackling them again. He warns the party that some foul beast leaped from the shadows and killed him while he was reading the inscription on the back wall, but he did not get a good look at the creature. The grogs’ corpses have been rent asunder and are not complete enough to act as a target for the spell. Words are inscribed waist-high along the back wall, on the other side of the pit. The Latin inscription praises Crom Dubh, extolling his power and expressing his terrible wrath. Above the inscription are several bas-relief sculptures of dragons, battles, lions, and warriors. Each scene is bordered, so that all ten carvings are separated into individual pieces of art. Slightly off center to the right is a carving of three knights wearing full chainmail and sitting astride three armored horses. Directly beneath the carving the inscription mentions Crom Dubh’s generals, “terrible captains three, who each lead sixty and six legions to the woe and wailing of their foes.” If human blood is splashed on the carving and the inscription, the narrow section of wall beneath it shimmers and is replaced by a black mist, the boundary to the next and last regio level. Again, Hermetic magic and Second Sight can spot this boundary. At some point, ideally as the magi stand engrossed, the Aillén Trechenn attacks, striking from the shadows. The Aillén Trechenn is trapped within this regio, held here by the same miraculous power that holds the Red Knights imprisoned (see following). As the characters enter, it swishes around the ceiling in spiritual form, sizing up''

[|

==Tadhg==

''Characteristics: Int –3, Per 0, Pre –2, Com –2, Str +1, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik –2 Size: –1 Age: 12 (12) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Son of Landed Noble; (Inherited) Knight, Second Sight; Overconfident, Heir, Reckless Personality Traits: Overconfident +3, Reckless +3 Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Dagger: Init –2, Attack +7, Defense +1, Damage +4 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Area Lore: Briefne 3 (bog), Athletics 1 (jumping), Awareness 3 (standing guard), Brawl 2 (dagger), Charm 1 (nobles), Etiquette 3 (hunting manners), Folk Ken 1 (knights),''
''Intrigue 1 (Tullyhaw nobles), Irish 5 (courtly terms), Second Sight 2 (regio boundaries), Stealth 3 (hiding), Survival 2 (bog) Equipment: Simple clothing Appearance: Tadhg is dark haired with blue eyes and a rosy complexion. He is wellbuilt and obviously strong for his age.''
''Tadhg is one of The McGovern’s sons. He is fostered to one of The McGovern’s knights in a nearby village. Discipline is lax, and as long as Tadhg does his chores he is free to explore the surrounding countryside. Tadhg is due to be trained as a knight. The boy has Second Sight, and for story purposes automatically sees the regio that leads to the mound. He may see additional regio boundaries inside the mound, depending on his Second Sight rolls. Tadhg’s Characteristics and Size have been modified due to his age. His low Intelligence does not mean that he is stupid, rather that he makes the same mistake over and over again and does not learn from his failures.''

|]
''its opponents and preparing for the best time to strike. The upper reaches of the room are likely lost in shadow. When the time is right, when the intruders seem the most vulnerable, it materializes perched on an upper shelf. It screeches once or twice, using its Whose Ears have heard heard the Master’s Call power, and after deafening one or two targets plunges through the air and attacks.''
''The Obsidian Throne Room Regio''
''The final regio is a chamber shaped like the one before, a large room with alcoves along either wall. A stone dais sits in the back of the room, a threetiered square of masonry that stands ten feet tall. Two staircases are cut into the dais and lead to a black obsidian throne that sits at the top; the throne’s high back and thick arms loom angrily over the room. The near wall, the one behind''
''the characters as they emerge from the regio boundary, holds the same ten basrelief sculptures of demons, monsters, and warriors that the previous regio’s wall held, in reverse order. The throne room has an Infernal aura of 4. The ten alcoves contain terracotta pots full of gold armbands, ancient Roman coins, jeweled brooches, rings, and necklaces. Sacrificed by pagan kings long ago, they have been collected into a sizable treasure equal to 500 Mythic pounds. The bas-relief carvings loom in silent witness behind the characters. Three demons, generals of Crom Dubh that were bested and bound by the saint, are imprisoned in the sculpture of the three mounted knights. Intellego Vim detection spells show that a Divine miracle of the 9th magnitude keeps these fiends contained. They have very little power at this point, trapped as they are in the carving. Touching any of the gold in the clay pots breaks the''
''demons’ supernatural bindings, a weakness in the saint’s miraculous binding power. Once a character picks up one of the glittering armbands or sparkling brooches the demons are released. They immediately return to Hell, screaming as they go. While they are undetectable in their spiritual form, their screams are heard by all. Looking at the bas-relief carving of the three mounted knights, a successful Perception + Awareness simple roll versus an Ease Factor of 6 indicates that the sculpture is changed, its lines dulled and its overall appearance marred. Aesthetically, it is noticeably different from its neighboring sculptures. If the Perception + Awareness roll was 12 or higher, the observer notices a fine Latin scrawl etched into each knight figure. Each is the True Name of the demon, a considerable advantage for those who little later meet the knights in combat when they come back for adventure two, “Red Knights Return.” If the magi never enter this regio level, they do not release the knights, and one of the storyguide characters does it offstage. Likely candidates are Uallachán, exploring the mound for Infernal Lore, Tadhg exploring what he thinks is an empty mound, or one of the barons, looking for the mound’s rumored gold.''

==The Return Trip==

''Leaving the Mound’s several regiones is much easier than entering them. Except for the initial entrance between the bog’s Infernal aura 1 and the Mound’s Infernal regio 1, each regio passage is readily apparent. Each looks like a hazy rent in the wall, obscured by gray mist. Stepping through each rent takes a walker from the current regio to the next. The entrapped demons cannot use these ready exits because they are bound in their respective regiones by Divine miracles.''

[|

==Bog Revenant==

''A bog revenant is a demon inhabiting the withered corpse of one of Crom Dubh’s willing newlyweds. A mound revenant can be male or female, with no statistical differences. Order: Furies Infernal Might: 10 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int 0, Pre +1, Com –3, Pre –3, Str +4, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Greater Infernal Power, Berserk, Great Strength, Tough; Mute Personality Traits: Wrathful +4, SelfControl –6 Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Claws*: Init +1, Attack +12, Defense +9, Damage +6 Soak*: +8 * Calculations include the revenant’s berserk state Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1-5), –1 (6-10), –3 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Brawl 5 (claws) Powers: Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init +2, Corpus: The bog revenant does not suffer from wound penalties except on Defense totals. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (butter) Vis: 2 pawns of Corpus vis sordida, one in each eye Appearance: A mound revenant is a pale, emaciated, animated corpse. It has long, dirty fingernails that are as strong as claws, and wild, uncombed hair. Naked, its clothes have long since rotted away.''
''Bog revenants are mad, ravening fiends intent on slaughter. A revenant does not spare a wounded target, and continues to attack until the target is dead. Up to five revenants can fight as an untrained group. A bog revenant cannot touch butter, medieval Ireland’s main export. If your saga is set elsewhere, select a common foodstuff from the area to act as the demon’s weakness.''

|]

==Lest we Forget the Barons==

''The world above has not sat idle as the magi explore below. The revenant attacks have rekindled an age-old grudge between the two baronies. The McGovern and 10 knights ride to raid Tullyhaw. The McTiernan has done the same and leads 10 Tullyhunco knights toward Tullyhaw. The groups happen to meet near the mound. Though armed and belligerent, at this point the barons would rather rattle swords then cross them. Both start shouting at each other, exclaiming ownership of the bog and its contents, and demanding the other leave the area. Hidden in its regio, the mound is not visible to the knights. The view from the mound is a wispy gray mist that surrounds the mound’s circumference. Those who can see through regio boundaries see the bog laying beyond the mist and the armored men. Those who can’t see through regio boundaries just see the mist. Walking into the mist, however, is enough to exit the regio and''
''step into the bog. Chances are that neither party sees the other. Tadhg can see through regio boundaries. If he is with the magi he sees the Tullyhaw and Tullyhunco knights and warns the magi. If he is not not with the magi, he is with his father, The McGovern, who met the boy on the ride through the bog. The McGovern insisted that his son ride with him rather than leaving him alone in the bog. In this case, Tadhg sees the magi and warns his father. Seeing the boundary is enough to enter the regio, and Tadhg can lead the knights in if the magi refuse to come out. If the magi’s presence remains undetected, the barons argue and a short melee ensues. If the player characters don’t enter the fight, don’t run a combat encounter using only storyguide characters. Instead say that after a few minutes of melee both sides leave, taking their dead and wounded with them. The barons survive to fight again. If the groups meet each other, the The McGovern accuses the magi of working for The McTiernan, which The''
''McTiernan denies before accusing the magi of working for the McGovern. The magi can explain the truth, that Crispus unintentionally disturbed the mound’s revenants. Neither baron trusts a Gifted speaker, but an eloquent unGifted character can convince the barons on an appropriate Social Ability + Communication stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Both barons admit to not hiring the magi to stir up trouble, and when both have heard the other’s admission they begrudgingly curb their anger and their knights. If the magi admit that Crispus was the culprit, the barons want some form of compensation for the villagers the revenants have killed. The magi may pay them a nominal amount, perhaps 10 Mythic Pounds, or tell them to take it up with Crispus’ master Aster Mor. They do ask if the magi found anything underground, since barrows and tumuli are rumored to hold ancient treasure. The magi can handle this however they want. If they have treasure, they can share it. If they don’t, or don’t want to part with their goods, they can step aside and let the barons enter. If led by Tadhg the barons get to the second regio, the Hall of Revenants, and engage the demons, a fight that may spill out to the lower regio level and perhaps the bog. Run this as you see fit, keeping in mind that the knights try to contain the revenants and slay as many as they can. The magi should be able to extract themselves from any lingering trouble outside the mound, whether through magic, negotiation, or subterfuge. If the magi want to destroy the mound, both barons refuse, claiming the site as a historical feature of the land. They say that destroying the revenants is enough to remove the peril. The magi may destroy the mound regardless. If so, it collapses, and reforms for the second adventure, rebuilt by the same Infernal powers that created it originally. The magi leave with Crispus’ body, and some gold if they are lucky. Aster Mor offers to bury Crispus’ corpse. He gives the magi ten pawns of vis for their assistance, offering them any type of vis they desire.''

==Thrice-Told Tales Interlude One: Five Years Pass==

''Depending how far away the monastery is from the covenant, the magi may wish to stay in touch with the barons, the clerics, or the boy Tadhg. The barons are not interested in maintaining ties with the magi. The clerics are more interested contacts, and they periodically exchange letters with the magi if the wizards make the effort. Tadhg returns to his fostered uncle and continues his martial training, preferring swords and horses over pens and letters. Father Uallachán continues to read Templeport’s church rolls. He also acquires other church chronicles and adds them to the Templeport collection. He reads that hundreds of years ago many local families, including the McGoverns and McTiernans, worshiped Crom Dubh. In his research he discovers the True Names of the three Red Knights formerly trapped in the mound. He speaks with Pádraig about the old gods and their relationship to the formation of the early Church. These conversations are never confrontational; they are Uallachán’s slow attempt to sow the seeds of deceit. After the magi leave, Uallachán explores the bog and the mound on his own. Aided by a local knights, he uses his Commanding power to pacify and slay any bog revenants he finds. He starts collecting their eyes, each a pawn of Corpus vis sordida, which he plans to use in his Infernal summonings. The three demon knights escape and return to Hell. It is ideal if the magi freed them, but if not, Uallachán does as he explores the mound. He cannot see regio boundaries, but his Infernal Lore suggests means to enter the higher regiones. An Intelligence + Infernal Lore + simple roll versus an Ease Factor of 12 indicates the various mundane ways to enter each regio boundary, e. g. by filling the shallow depression in the alcove’s pedestal with human blood. A month after the demons leave the mound, the regio boundary between it and the bog’s Infernal aura closes. It no longer opens at dawn or dusk, nor on the''
''anniversary of the pagan spring and fall festival. A particular property of this regio is that, at this time, the boundary cannot be seen by Second Sight or found by Hermetic spells. While closed, the mound regio system relocates itself to another spot in the bog. When the regio boundary reopens in Story Two, the mound is still in the bog, but in a different location.''

==Story II: Red Knights Return==

''In the second story the three demon knights that were trapped below the mound in the Obsidian Throne Room return. Generals of Crom Dubh, they come to prepare the way for their demonic lord by spreading war and slaughter. To further the conflict, they pose as their enemy’s enemy. In the time honored tradition of Ireland, they collect their victims’ heads.''

[|

==Aillén Trechenn==

''The Aillén Trechenn is a monstrous demon that regularly emerged from its cave to attack the people of ancient Ireland. It was reportedly slain by the 1st century poet Amairgin, but as your characters discover, that tale is incorrect. Order: Furies Infernal Might: 20 (Auram) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +5, Pre –2, Com –2, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +5, Qik +1 Size: 0 Confidence Score: 3 (1) Virtues and Flaws: Berserk, Tough Personality Traits: Wrathful +6 Reputation: Ancient Monster 3 (Local) Hierarchy: 3 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Beak: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +4 Talons: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +8, Damage +3 Soak: +5 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1-5), –1 (6-10), –3 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 5 (interlopers), Athletics 4 (flying), Brawl 5 (talons) Powers: Coagulation, 2 points, Init 0, Corpus: This power allows the Aillén Trechenn to take physical form. Obsession, 1–3 points, Init –4, Vim: As per Realms of Power: Infernal, page 31, the demon can manifest the Personality Trait: Wrathful in a sinning''
''character. The score of the Personality Trait equals the number of Might points spent. Waxing Tide of Humors, 3 points, Init +7, Mentem: The demon causes a target to become wrathful. The character may resist the emotion by making an appropriate Personalty Trait + stress die roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Berserker Rage, 1 point, Init +5, Mentem: The demon gives a character the Berserk Virtue, which lasts until the character calms down. Endurance of the Enraged, 0 points, Init +5, Corpus: As described for Bog Revenants. Whose Ears have heard the Master’s Call, 4 points, Init +5, Corpus: The call of the Aillén Trechenn causes great pain and renders the hearer deaf. The target of this power loses his sense of hearing, which heals as a Heavy Wound. Sufferers take a –3 penalty to combat totals. (Debauchery/Malediction Base 10, +2 Voice) Weakness: Abhorrent Material (butter) Vis: 4 pawns of Vim vis sordida in its largest beak. Appearance: The Aillén Trechenn appears as a triple-headed vulture the size of a man. Filthy, tattered, and vile, the ebony fiend drops feathers and feces in its wake.''
''As a three-headed creature, the Aillén Trechenn can make three beak attacks in a combat round. It can replace one of its beak attacks with its talons attack.''

==Storyguide Character Advancement, Five Years Later==

''Three characters from story one have to be advanced five years, each receiving 75 experience points. The magi may or may not meet any of the three, depending on circumstances, but you should keep track of these characters’ experience points and abilities. Even if not met in story two, the three play important roles in story three.''
''Tadhg McGovern''
''Tadhg makes the biggest change due to age, leaving his childhood and entering adolescence. Remove the –1 penalty from his Size and Characteristics. Tadhg has been training as a knight, although he has yet to earn his spurs and gain the title. Change his character sheet as follows.''
''Characteristics: Int –2 Per +1, Pre –1, Com –1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +3, Qik –1 Age: 17 (17) Size: 0''
''Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Long Sword: Init +1, Attack +10, Defense +4, Damage +8 Soak: +3  Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)  Changed Abilities: Ride 2 (in pursuit), Second Sight 3 (regio boundaries), Single Weapon 3 (long sword), Thrown Weapon 2 (javelin)''
''Father Pádraig''
''The abbot continues overseeing his flock and running his monastery. While he listens to Uallachán’s dialogues about the old gods and the old ways, he treats it as entertaining dinner conversation. Adjust his character sheet as follows. Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1 (1), Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta –2 (2), Dex –2(1), Qik –2''
''Size: 0 Age: 63 (57) Decrepitude: 1 (8) Changed Abilities: Area Lore: Briefne 4 (15) (Ecclesiastical properties), Awareness 2 (lost cows), Folk Ken 4 (local barons), Profession: Scribe 5 (copying gospels)''
''Father Uallachán''
''The priest continues to explore the bog, search the old records, and, in secret, practice his dark arts. He does not do this near the church, instead favoring the bog where his powers seem more impressive. Adjust his character sheet as follows. Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre +3, Com +3, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex –2 (2), Qik –1 Age: 40 (39) Decrepitude: 0 (3) Abilities: Ablating 8 (Furies), Infernal Lore 4 (demons), Summoning 12 (9) (False Gods)''

|]
''They create a magical headquarters for a lair, using a magic device called the Basalt Tower. All three demons are Vessels of Iniquity, originators of violent and cruel sins, and they rend the area with warfare, carnage, and wanton murder. Meanwhile, Father Uallachán has expressed his interest in the old gods to Father Pádraig. The abbot says that the old stories may be enjoyed, but anything more is sacrilege. But alone in his bedroom, Uallachán’s stories of the old gods’ wealth itch at Pádraig’s resolve. Uallachán has long suspected that the abbot’s fondness for wealth and worldly goods may be the path to convincing Pádraig that Crom Dubh needs to return. As story two begins, Pádraig contemplates the idea of a grander monastery using Crom Dubh’s riches.''

==Setting the Infernal Stage==

''The Mound returns, accompanied by Crom Dubh’s Red Knights. They capture the local McGovern lord — leader of the village where Tadhg was fostered — and drag him in chains to the mound, where they decapitate him. Into his collected pool of blood they place the Basalt Tower, a miniature tower that magically creates a real tower within a created Infernal regio. If the mound is in the same Tribunal as your player characters, those with Premonitions or Visions feel a sudden shudder and plangent despair. Those who succeed at a Perception + Premonitions stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 feel a sense of impending doom. Tower complete, the Red Knights prepare for war. The Hibernian Tribunal, like many, contains bands of roving mercenaries, men and women who follow anyone for the right price. Siphoning wealth from the Dark One’s inexhaustible supply of riches, the Red Knights are generous paymasters. Within a week they have enough men to raid nearby villages. The Red Knights can change their appearance and the appearance of those who ride with them. Lord Scirlin and his men raided Tullyhaw disguised as McTiernan men, while Lord Varrf and his men raided Tullyhun''
''co masked as McGovern knights. Lord Clemialh stayed at the Basalt Tower receiving new recruits. When the first waves of false Tullyhunco warriors raid Tullyhaw, the principle storyguide characters act. Hustling to the scriptorium, Pádraig pens a letter to the same magi who helped five years ago. “Our need is great,” he writes, “evil is come again from the old bog.” His swiftest messenger departs for the covenant. Tadhg, 17 years old and a squire in service to his uncle, does not think the raiders are from Tullyhunco, and thinks powerful magic is disguising their true identity. Uallachán also suspects something, and tells Pádraig that he is crossing the swamp to talk to The McTiernan. Once alone in the bog, the cleric looks for the Basalt Tower.''
''The Basalt Tower''
''The Basalt Tower has three powers, all enacted with a single triggering mechanism. It is a small replica of a tower carved from a single stone, and submerging the replica in a pool of human blood causes it to create an Infernal regio with an Infernal aura of 5, and a large tower within the regio. All powers remain in effect for as long as the miniature tower stays in the pool of blood. The following powers happen sequentially starting from the first, and include powers that may not be available for your player characters.''
''Debauchery/Diablerie 85 Pen 0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Forsaken, T: Boundary This power creates an Infernal regio with an Infernal aura of 5. The duration is equal to Forsaken, a unique Infernal Duration that causes the effect to last until the target seeks repentance. Since blood can not ask forgiveness, the effect remains until the miniature stone tower is removed from the pool of blood. The pool must be generated through evil means, such as murder and suicide. (Effect: Base 45, +4 Special, +4 Boundary)''
''CrTe 35 Pen 0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Forsaken, T: Ind This power creates a large tower. (Effect: Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 Special, +3 size)''
''Debauchery/Diablerie 80 Pen 0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Special, T: Room This power creates an Infernal regio with an Infernal aura of 6. Called “the Prison regio,” it is connected to an upper floor of the tower. It has the same Duration as the first power. (Effect: Base 50, +4 Special, +2 Room)''

==Involving the Magi==

''A messenger arrives at the covenant to deliver Father Pádraig’s request. The McTiernan clan is attacking the McGovern clan with a ferocity never before seen, and the aged abbot thinks the bog’s evil might be behind it. The magi helped last time, will they come again? They might not. Magi are notoriously self-centered and able to craft a multitude of reasons that prevent them from delivering assistance. The messenger leaves crestfallen, but in two weeks Tadhg arrives, his horse lathered in sweat and collapsing at the covenant’s door. Tullyhaw masses for war, he says. Warriors from the bog raid villages looking for his kinsman, and taking their heads as trophies. This is not a simple cattle raid, he emphasizes, but a chevauchée, a “horse charge,” whose purpose is solely to wreck havoc, destroy the countryside, and weaken the enemy. Tadhg fears that a huge army might walk out of the bog at any moment. Worse still, he does not think it is Tullyhunco at all. He has escaped raiding parties twice, and both times he swears he saw foreign mercenaries lead by a red rider astride a red horse, but only for an instant and when he looked again he saw Tullyhunco knights. “We cannot contend against such powerful magic,” he says. “Ride with me to Templeport.”''
''You know your players. If these approaches won’t work you will have to somehow entice them back to the bog. Some suggestions follow.''
''• Aster Mor returns and says that Crispus’ ghost warns that evil is afoot once more, and that the Infernal regio in which he died is again spewing a diabolical threat. He knows the magi are busy, but they know the''
''area and he will compensate them handsomely for their aid. • The local Quaesitor arrives, asking if the magi know about the war that is bubbling in the Tribunal. It is coincidentally happening in the same area that they explored five years ago, and the Quaesitor wonders how clean the magi’s involvement with the mundanes was. She says she has other matters to attend to first, but''
''at some point she will go to Tullyhaw and ask around. She suggests that the magi might want to head up and see what is going on. If she is a stickler for rules, like Galerius from Antagonists (pages 67–79), the magi should be properly motivated. • The treasure that the magi took five years ago vanishes. Crom Dubh, anticipating his return, gathers money to pay for his army. Like many False''

[|

==The Red Knights==

''The Red Knights are from the demonic order of the Vessels of Iniquity, inventors of malevolence and wickedness. Each Vessel is a physical manifestation of an abstract sin, a specific maleficence that pesters and ruins mankind. Lord Scirlin embodies greed, specifically the greed of victorious besiegers plundering a taken city; Lord Varrf embodies the sin of battlefield frenzy; and Lord Clemialh embodies the sin of wanton butchery. Order: Vessel of Iniquity Infernal Might: 30 (Corpus) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre –3, Com +1, Str +5, Sta +5, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 or +3 Confidence Score: 2 (6 points) Virtues and Flaws: Self-Confident, Tough Personality Traits: Cruel +6, Depraved +6, Hatred +6 Reputations: Vassal of Crom Dubh 5 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 5 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Gauntlet: Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +7 Longsword: Init +3, Attack +14, Defense +10, Damage +11 Mounted longsword: Init +3, Attack +17, Defense +13, Damage +11 Soak: +17 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Man Form Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Horseman Form Wound Penalties: –1 (1–8), –3 (9–16), –5 (17–24), Incapacitated (15–32), Dead (33+)''
''Abilities: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 4 (searching), Brawl 5 (gauntlet), Infernal Lore 3 (rankings), Leadership 4 (demonic legions), Penetration 5 (Obsession power), Profession: Torturer 5 (ugly wounds), Single Weapon 7 (longsword), Ride 3 (charging) Powers: Form of Wickedness, 4 points, Init 0, Mentem: This power allows the Red Knight to assume the form of its particular sin, looting (Lord Scirlin), battlefield frenzy (Lord Varrf), or wanton butchery (Lord Clemialh), as an indescribable physical manifestation that causes the ten closest people to succumb to that sin and act upon it. A Stamina + stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6 breaks the obsession. The roll can be made hourly, but each failure costs the target a Fatigue Level. Form of Man, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: The Red Knight can assume any human shape he desires. He prefers armored knights, clad in chainmail, brandishing a broad sword. This power replaces the Coagulation power used by other demons. Form of Horseman, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: The Red Knight can assume the shape of a horse and rider, making his overall Size +3. In this form, the rider cannot dismount, as the two are in actuality one. Form of the Enemy, 1 – 3 points, Init +0, Imaginem: The demon can make himself and his troops look like an opponent’s enemy, either a foreign group or another clan. To change his own form costs 1 point of Might, 2 points to change himself and ten other warriors, and 3 points to change himself and up''
''to 100 other warriors. Contagious Obsession, 1 point, Init –5, Vim: See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 39. Anyone who has succumbed to one of the Red Knight’s Obsession powers acts as a carrier and passes that Personality Trait on to others he interacts with. Obsession, 1–3 points, Init –5, Vim: See Realms of Power: Infernal, page 31. A Red Knight can impose a temporary Personality Trait on a target. The Personality Trait is the same as the demon’s preferred sin (looting, battlefield frenzy, or wanton butchery) and is valued at +1 to +3, depending on how many might points are spent. Weakness: Abhorrent Material (obsidian) Vis: 6 pawns of Vim vis prava in the Red Knight’s sword. Appearance: A Red Knights appears as armored knight, standing head to toe in red-painted mail, with blood red livery and tabard. His face is entirely covered by chainmail; he does not need human eyes to see. His second favored form is the same knight riding a red horse, with red bridle and tack.''
''As demons, the Red Knights have a spiritual form and several physical forms. They can change forms whenever they want. In spiritual form, they are immune to physical attacks. If pressed or near defeat in the field, a Red Knight changes to its spiritual form and fly back to the Basalt Tower, where it will change back into its physical form. If reduced to half its original Might or penalized by a cumulative –15 Wound penalty, a Red Knight retreats to Hell, removing it from the story.''

|]
''Gods, he can magically move money around, transferring funds from afar to coffers nearby. Hopefully, the magi want their loot back and have a good idea where to get it.''
''These suggestions, combined with Father Pádraig’s letter or Tadhg’s arrival, indicate that action awaits at the bog. The magi know how to get to Templeport, and the messenger or Tadhg offer to ride with them. Figuring (correctly) that the problem lies in the bog, the magi may want to head directly there. If the magi want to go to Templeport, play “To Templeport.” If the magi head directly to the swamp, play “Penetrating the Peat Bog.” At some point, either as the group heads for the monastery or the bog, you need to introduce Fiona McTiernan through the event, “The Dogs of War.”''

==To Templeport==

''The war has not yet spread to the surrounding territory and is currently contained in the areas surrounding the bog: northwest into Tullyhaw and southeast into Tullyhunco. The Red Knights’ raids have not yet reached Templeport. If the magi enter the areas already attacked, they see the aftermath of the Red Knights’ raids. Unburied victims lay in charred villages, trampled wheat fields line the roads, and the wind carries the stench of burnt flesh. Refugees wander the roads, people who have left their homes and are retreating to the forests. Scoundrels prowl the highways, armed looters looking for easy gains.''
''Hard Men and Cruel Mistresses''
''On the way to Templeport the characters meet a group of warriors and their camp women, desperadoes drawn to the Red Knights’ banner. The warriors are soldiers (ArM5, page 22) and reek of sour wine and sweat. The women are noncombatant prostitutes, runaways, and thieves. While the soldiers''
''are ready to fight, this is not necessarily a combat encounter, and rather shows the lasciviousness and moral depravity of those heeding the Red Knights’ call. The group is not large, a dozen at most. They attack only if they have numerical supremacy, and run off at the first sign of magic or stiff resistance. If questioned they say that they, like several other mercenary groups, are heading into the bog to join the Red Lord’s army. They aren’t clear on who the Red Lord is, but know that he is neither McGovern or McTiernan, and that he pays well and promptly. They have been told to camp near the border of the bog and wait for the Red Lord’s envoy to come to get them. This encounter shows that there is another party active in the area, one who uses the bog as a headquarters, and that it is not the McGoverns or the McTiernans who started hostilities. If the player characters join the mercenaries, probably through the subterfuge of pretending to be mercenaries themselves, the group walks to the bog and camps on its edge. Within a day or two, one of the Red Knights’ seneschals arrives and leads the party to an old oak tree that serves as the mound’s mundane boundary marker (see later).''
''A Beacon in the Night''
''The monastery at Templeport is a haven for refugees. Unlike five years ago, the gate to the monastery is closed. Watchers from the stone tower see the magi as they approach, and call down to the men guarding the gate. A sentry from atop the wall asks who the magi are, and if satisfied that they are not raiders lets them in (an unGifted character should do the talking). The church grounds are crowded; Domnach Mór is lined with huddled survivors, either shivering in terror or unconscious from fatigue. Children and women squat outside huts, their faces and clothes streaked with soot and blood. A small team of monks tend to the sufferers. The guards summon one of the brothers to speak with the magi, and Brother Osgar comes immediately. He is put off if speaking with a Gifted character, but''
''still delivers the necessary information. He will not offer to let a Gifted character stay, unless they are wounded. Father Uallachán is gone, says Osgar, leaving from Templeport to Tullyhunco when the monks first heard word of the troubles. Father Pádraig left for The McGovern’s castle at the same time, both seeking to broker a peace agreement between the barons. Pádraig returned in a few days saying that The McGovern did not start the raiding, but will not sit idly by while his barony is attacked. Word has gone out for his loyal knights and retainers to assemble. Upon hearing that Uallachán was still absent, Pádraig left Templeport for Tullyhunco, crossing the same bog that separates the two baronies. Brother Osgar says that Pádraig has not returned. The magi may ask again to look at the Templeport church rolls. In the five years since their last visit, Father Uallachán has amassed more chronicles, combining those from other churches into one large codex of information. As before, a player may make an Intelligence + appropriate Ability (Area Lore: Briefne, Church Lore, or Infernal Lore) + a simple die for each day their character spends reading the library. If the roll succeeds against an Ease Factor of 9, the old records reveal that Crom Dubh has 66 generals, called the Red Knights or the Red Lords, who are masters of warfare and who can change their identity to appear as an opponent’s enemy. The generals usually appear in groups of 3. Characters may remember the three basrelief sculptures of three knights in the Obsidian Throne Room. If the magi’s companions have successfully interacted with Brother Osgar socially, he allows them to stay as long as they like, and use the monastery as a base for their operation. The church has a Divine aura of 4, and the monastery grounds have a Divine aura of 2. The monks can feed the hungry and mend the wounded. At this point, the players have several pieces of information: Crom Dubh has at least 3 demon knights who can change their appearance, and both Uallachán and Pádraig have entered the bog on their way to Tullyhunco.''

==Thrice-Told Tales The Dogs of War==

''As the magi head to the bog, either from Templeport or directly from their covenant, they pass through the area devastated by the Red Knights’ chevauchėes. With the scars of war all around them, the road takes the characters toward a large copse of trees. As they close on the trees, perhaps 15 paces distant, a horse and rider bolt from cover and gallop directly at the characters. Snapping at the rider’s heels are a pack of dogs, snarling and barking and desperate to bring down the horse. Call for Perception + Awareness stress rolls. A 9 or higher allows the character to roll Initiative as normal and act on the first round of combat. The rider steers around the characters and the pack of Hell Hounds attacks them. A 12 or higher gives a character an action; he has one combat round to do something as the rider charges down the road and the Hell Hounds emerge from the brush. A 15 or higher gives the character two actions, acting just after the galloping rider leaves the woods. The same total also reveals that the rider is a young woman. The rider, Fiona McTiernan, avoids the player characters, but hesitates to see how they fare against the hounds. The Hell Hounds stop chasing Fiona and attack the characters. There are 12 Hell Hounds, which attack as 3 trained groups of 4 Hounds each. If the magi defeat the Hell Hounds, Fiona thanks them and asks who they are. She introduces herself as The McTiernan’s daughter and says that she was following her father into the bog. He had told her not to accompany his raiding party, but she did so anyway. Instead of watching his victory over their enemies, she saw her father defeated and captured by a McGovern force. Watching from behind a bush, she also saw the victors’ illusion disappear and reveal their true identity. What looked like The McGovern and a group of Tullyhaw knights was really a towering Red Knight (Lord Varrf) riding a blood-red horse and leading a band of mercenaries. As she watched, the Red Knight''
''spotted her. She fled. Instead of rushing home, she headed to Templeport. Realizing that the baronies weren’t warring, and that evil forces were manipulating them, Fiona hopes that Pádraig and Uallachán can convince The McGovern that her father isn’t behind the Tullyhaw attacks. She also plans to ask for a rescue party to follow her into the swamp. “Somewhere in that bog is father,” she says, “and I’ll find him.” Hopefully your players will volunteer their characters to assist Fiona. If the magi can’t beat the Hell Hounds and have to retreat, you must to engineer their encounter with Fiona later, so that the players learn that important prisoners are kept in the Basalt Tower. Fiona could simply wander in to them, on her way to Templeport, or arrive at Templeport while the players are talking to Brother Osgar. If the player characters have not yet been to Templeport, Fiona could ask them to accompany her to protect her. If the players are already committed to rescuing The McTiernan from the Basalt Tower, they do not necessarily need to know that Pádraig and Uallachán also need rescuing. If it will help them decide to invade the Basalt Tower, though, you might want to send them to Templeport.''

==Penetrating the Peat Bog==

''As the characters head to the mound, they find that it is not where they left it. It has moved, appearing in a different location within the bog when the boundary regio between the mound and the bog reopened. The characters can search for it using the same means they used five years ago. They can follow one of the raiding groups returning to the mound with captured prisoners. They can follow one of the groups of new recruits, who have been told to camp outside the bog and wait until someone comes for them. Or, if they have an Arcane Connection to one of the people held within the Basalt Tower, they can use that as a navigational tool to magically find the mound. There are many personal effects''
''of Pádraig and Uallachán at Templeport, any of which serves as an adequate Arcane Connection to the owner. Fiona has one of her father’s favorite daggers, which she took to protect herself and which serves as an Arcane Connection to The McTiernan.''
''The Mound Revisited''
''Deep in the midst of the bog is an ancient, dead oak tree. New recruits are led to this spot and then wait until sunrise or sunset for the mound’s regio boundary to appear, behaving as it did five years ago. The bog and the mound’s first regio have Infernal auras of 1. Once the regio is seen it is easy to walk onto the mound. The entrance and interior have not changed at all, and if the magi wish they can explore those areas. They are either empty or full of revenants, depending on the events of five years ago. The important change is atop the mound. Hidden by sedge and brown cato-nine tales lies a viscous pool of dark red blood. Finding the pool requires a successful Perception + Awareness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 15. Intellego Corpus spells reveal that the blood is human and belongs to the missing McGovern noble. Submerged in the pool sits the miniature Basalt Tower, the enchanted device responsible for creating the larger Basalt Tower and Infernal regio. If the miniature tower is removed from the pool, the magic ends. Any person within the Infernal regio when the enchantment ends is hurled into the mundane world, receiving damage as if they fell from whatever floor they happened to be on at the time. Any demon within the Basalt Tower is flung back to Hell and removed from the story. Two willow trees stand atop the mound, and their lower branches form an arch. This arch is the boundary that lead to the first level of the Basalt Tower regiones. If the magi do not know the ritual that allows entrance — standing under the arch and saying “Burn in Hell” in Latin (“Adolebit in Inferno!”) — they must search for the regio opening''
''with spells or Second Sight (Perception + Second Sight + stress roll against an Ease Factor of 13). If the characters lack these spells or equivalent enchanted devices, they must wait for a mercenary group and watch them make the sign to enter. The group is either a raiding party returning with captives, or new recruits being lead by a knowledgeable knight. One or the other type of group will show up within a few hours, but the mound is not unguarded. Waiting characters are harried by Hell Hounds, savage beasts who emerge from the fog to tear into the party (with the same stats as before).''
''The Basalt Tower Regio''
''A square black tower sits in the center of the created regio, which has an Infernal aura of 5. Four stories high and built of black stone, the Basalt Tower looms over the surrounding bog. Iron gates lead to the ground floor’s great hall, a large chamber dominated by the blazing hearth set in the far wall. Several long, wooden tables hold platters of nuts and meat, and goblets of honeyed mead. A dozen warriors and their disreputable retainers sit at the tables, sweating profusely from the blazing hearth’s heat. Depending on how the characters present themselves at the entrance, the warriors may not attack, perhaps taking them for new mercenary recruits. The characters could literally say nothing and walk through the hall to the far spiral staircase. No one will accost them. A narrow circular staircase is recessed into the right-hand wall and leads to the floors above. The second floor contains a large parlor and two private bedrooms. The parlor is dark, lit only by candles placed haphazardly around the room. Couches, chairs, and tables block vision and obscure the characters’ view. Shadowy figures skulk around the perimeter of the room. No one is supposed to be here without the Red Knights’ permission, and the seneschals in charge know this. Emerging from the shadows, the seneschals confront the magi and ask who they are and why they are here. The only acceptable response is that''
''the characters have arrived to do the Red Knights’ bidding, although they must refer to a Red Knight by name. It is unlikely that the characters will know this. The mercenary captains refer to the Knights as “the great lords” but do not know individual names, and this informality will not appease the seneschals. They demand that the characters leave immediately. If they refuse, the seneschals call the room’s guards and melee ensues. Use the standard soldier template for the guards and the specialist template for the seneschals (ArM5 pages 21 – 22). There are as many seneschals as main player characters (magi and companions), and as many guards as grogs. The sounds of melee do not bring the mercenaries below rushing upstairs. They are used to hearing commotion from above, and while the sound of melee alarms them, they do not ascend the stairs. They remain alert, however, and may interfere with the characters’ exit. The third floor is the Red Knights’ bedroom. Mangy animal hides, both familiar and foreign, drape the walls, and ugly iron furniture sits in the center of the room. Three large tapestry beds have frames and posts built from human bones. The room houses treasure, mounds of stolen gold taken from monasteries and rich residences. None of it has been melted down and characters can find necklaces, armbands, gold plates and chalices, and all sorts of religious plunder: candelabra, censers, and crosses. The fourth and highest floor is a large, single chamber, which the Red Knights use as their war room. A large oak table sits in the center of the space, cluttered with severed McGovern and McTiernan heads. Lord Varrf stands at the table, admiring his handiwork. He turns and asks the characters who they are, and however they reply suggests that they don’t meddle with his plans. His mission is to collect heads for Crom Dubh, and if the characters don’t leave the room he will happily remove their heads from their necks. If the characters attack him, which seems likely, he only stands his ground if there is a chance of winning the battle. Like all demons Varrf is a coward at heart and will retreat to Hell rather than die for Crom Dubh.''
''The Prison Regio''
''The upper most level of the regiones is a prison, with an Infernal aura of 6, which is accessed from the Red Knights’ chamber on the third floor. The prison’s regio entrance lies against the wall, between a hung hyena hide and a wildebeest pelt. To those without Second Sight or Hermetic spells, the black stone wall looks like any other in the tower. Those who can see the regio boundary see a swirling vortex of murky black. Stepping through the vortex takes a character from the bedroom and into the regio. Another way of seeing the boundary is to stand next to the wall and say the same phrase that made the first Basalt Tower regio boundary shimmer into view: “Adolebit in Inferno!” Through the opening is a long, stone chamber, dimly lit by hanging oil lamps, its walls lined with chains, wooden racks, iron maidens, and other torture instruments. The moans of the occupants drifting through the air, followed by the stink of charred flesh. Empty manacles hang from iron brackets in the stone wall, and waist-high braziers belch clouds of black smoke, hindering''
''breathing and blocking vision. Midway down the room The McTiernan, maybe The McGovern, and a half dozen other McTiernan and McGovern prisoners hang manacled from their wrists, too weak to move and helplessly awaiting their inevitable execution. At the far end of the room, Pádraig and Uallachán likewise hang, naked and covered in blood. Both men are unconscious and dangle limply by their wrists. As the characters investigate and possibly try to revive the prisoners, Lord Clemialh steps out of the black smoke obscuring the rear of the prison. Drawn sword in his right hand, he holds four savage Hell Hounds on a chain in his left. Lord Clemialh’s motivation is to complete Uallachán’s initiation, and warns the characters away from the unconscious priest. If the characters try to negotiate a truce, which is an infraction of their Oath of Hermes, Clemialh will let them take Pádraig and every other captive, but Uallachán must remain behind. He will not explain why. If the characters cannot come to terms with the demon, he releases the hounds and attacks. Lord Clemialh does his best to kill the characters, but retreats if the''
''battle goes against him. If the characters defeat him, they can rescue and remove the prisoners. Their exit is still barred by the warriors below, waiting in the great hall, but if they prove their superior strength – displaying a Red Knight’s head would work – the mercenaries turn tail and run. The nobles were captured and brought here to be tortured and killed. Uallachán willingly submitted to Lord Clemialh and is undergoing an Infernal Mystery Initiation, which grants him the Virtue: Infernal Blessing. Pádraig was captured while in the bog and brought to the Basalt Tower, where Uallachán and Lord Clemialh convinced the abbot to join their cause. So persuaded, Pádraig swore allegiance to Crom Dubh, the pagan god. Purposefully misled, Pádraig has unknowingly submitted to the devil. The abbot is undergoing an Infernal Mystery Initiation that grants him the Major Supernatural Virtue: Entrancement and gives him the Flaw: False Power (Entrancement). Pádraig’s Initiation is finished and he is lying unconscious from his ordeal. Uallachán’s Initiation is incomplete, and if the characters “rescue” him he does not receive his new Virtue, which is detailed in the updated character information for Story Three.''

==The Aftermath==

''Story Two has several possible resolutions. A total victory sees the magi killing all three knights and rescuing all the storyguide characters. A partial victory is destroying the Basalt Tower and Infernal regio by removing the enchanted device from the pool of blood. Those inside “fall” 20 feet when the regio disappears and take +10 Damage. Noble captives who die are replaced by a legitimate heir. Pádraig and Uallachán return to Templeport, and the threat of the demons is removed. If the magi fail to stop the Red Knights and fail to rescue the storyguide characters, Tadhg suggests removing the miniature enchanted device from the pool of blood. Fiona agrees to help, and both ask the magi for their assistance.''

[|

==Hell Hound==

''Order: Furies Infernal Might: 10 (Animal) Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +2, Pre –10, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2 Size: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Greater Infernal Power; Improved Characteristics, Long-Winded, Sharp Ears; Corrupted Beast, Reckless Personality Traits: Violent +6, Reckless +3 Hierarchy: 0 Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +1 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: 0 (1-5), –1 (6-10), –3 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (distance running), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Brawl 3''
''(bite), Hunt 4 (track by scent), Leadership 3 (in combat) Powers: The Baleful Bark, 4 points, Init +6, Corpus: The Hell hound possesses a terrible bark. A targeted listener receives a –4 penalty on combat Ability die rolls and 4 additional botch dice. (Incantation/Malediction Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Diameter) Weakness: Running Water Vis: Two pawns of Animal vis infesta in the beast’s tongue Appearance: A large, black mastiff, this Hell hound has a large, savage muzzle and glowing red eyes.''
''Up to four Hell hounds can fight as a trained group, giving the group a +12 advantage that can be used for Attack or Defense.''

|]
''Hell Hounds attack the group, but the two heirs should succeed with the magi’s help. This resolution provides some measure of victory, as just described. Unlike the last story, the mound’s regio boundary does not close, but remains fixed and permanently open. If someone suggests building a church atop the mound, a time-honored tradition across Mythic Europe, everyone agrees that it is a good idea. The McGovern and The McTiernan reluctantly supply funds to build the church. If the magi suggested this before, all congratulate them on their foresight. The mound continues to have an Infernal aura of 1, and the regio levels inside remain for as long as the Infernal aura continues. All agree that building a church atop it will replace the Infernal aura with a Divine aura.''

==Five More Years Pass==

''Tullyhaw and Tullyhunco remain at peace for a year, each barony draining portions of the bog and turning it into arable land. Near the end of the second year work begins on a stone church atop the mound. While both barons promised funds, and initially''
''made contributions, they were unable to keep paying for the project. This lack of noble support hasn’t seemed to slow construction, however, and many wonder how Pádraig and Uallachán can keep building without the barons’ fiscal contributions. Some ask questions, but it remains a mystery. The answer, of course, is the vast collection of wealth that Crom Dubh can divert to the project. Uallachán has developed his Summoning and Commanding powers and found the True Names of Crom Dubh, 2 Red Knights (which may or may not be those encountered in story two), and a handful of lesser demons. Through an Infernal intermediary, the diabolist has informed the Dark One that he is preparing to summon the demon to earth, and the Dark One has responded with gross capital. Knowing his limitations, Uallachán has not yet attempted summoning Crom Dubh. Having joined his colleague’s cause, mistakenly thinking he is aligned with a pagan god, Pádraig travels to the nobles’ castles and advances the idea that they should worship at his new church. During these visits Pádraig does not suggest they worship the old gods, instead he brings local minstrels and musicians and encourages them to sing the old songs, those that celebrate old heroes, old gods, and old ways. The new church nears completion.''
''Pádraig wants to dedicate it to Crom Dubh and assemble a congregation of worshipers. Uallachán wants to summon Crom Dubh and command the Dark One to do the diabolist’s bidding. They construct a plan. They will engineer a wedding between the two closest families, the McGoverns and the McTiernans, and gather the families at the church for the wedding. Pádraig will extol the powers of the ancient deity and convince the family leaders to worship it. Uallachán promises to assist, but has an ulterior motive. When the group is assembled he will summon Crom Dubh and return his master to the world. Uallachán isn’t powerful enough to summon the Dark One and needs Infernal vis to augment his capabilities. He is powerful enough to summon a Red Knight, whose corpse is worth 5 pawns of vis prava, which he could use to summon the Dark One. His Ablating Ability isn’t powerful enough to drain the vis prava from the Red Knight, nor is he strong enough to kill it and take its vis. The magi are; they did it five years ago. During the wedding gathering, he plans to summon a Red Knight and command it to attack the bride and groom. He hopes the magi will prevent the attack and slay the demon. He will offer to take care of the filthy corpse, when he will take the vis prava and summon Crom Dubh. If his plans''
''works, the magi inadvertently assist in returning the Dark One. Father Pádraig visits The McGovern and The McTiernan to convince them to marry their heirs, Tadhg and Fiona. Their reluctance crumbles under the priest’s Entrancement power. The wedding is arranged. The new church is finished. The local bishop consecrates the church, but does not perform the second Domination rite – in this case a Mass – which allows the Dominion to enter the building. The diabolists do not want a Divine aura, which will hinder Pádraig’s convincing and Uallachán’s summoning. They tell people that they will hold a Mass before the wedding. During this false Mass Uallachán plans to summon Crom Dubh. Uallachán sends a personalized wedding invitation to the magi, delivered by someone whom he hopes will convince them to attend.''

==Story III: The Blessed Union==

''On a cheery, cloudless day, Fiona McTiernan and a small entourage arrive at the covenant. Spring, summer, or autumn, pick the season that best meshes with the other developments of your saga. Hopefully some of the characters remember her and are happy to see her. After pleasantries she tells the magi that she is marrying Tadhg McGovern and invites them to the ceremony. “Not at all odd,” she says. “You were instrumental in clearing the evil from the mound, where the new church is and where the wedding is to take place. So many people are invited that I am not surprised you are too.” She says that this marriage celebrates not only their union, but the new church and a new peace between age old enemies. It is obvious that Fiona is not happy about her situation. Through further dialog she explains that she had many suitors; seemingly anyone who meets''
''her falls in love with her (remember her Curse of Venus Flaw). Proposals from the O’Reilly clan from Clanmahon and the O’Farrelly clan from Loughtee were being entertained when suddenly her father changed his mind and agreed to a marriage with the McGoverns. It’s not that she doesn’t like Tadhg; she’s just surprised at her father’s change of mind. “There is no love lost between us and the McGoverns,” she says. If the player characters ask about her invitation, she’ll correct them. “It’s not my invitation, not that I don’t want you there. I do. But it is the priests who specifically wanted us to invite you.” Both priests? “Father Pádraig has been regularly visiting lately, but it was Father Uallachán who asked father if I would personally deliver the invitation to you.” Fiona is also annoyed that she was excluded from her father’s conversations with Pádraig. “He isn’t normally so secretive,” she says. Fiona needs a few days to recover from her journey before returning home. She plans to return to her father’s castle before heading to the new church for the wedding, and she hopes to have the magi in tow. If the player characters developed a better relationship with Tadhg than Fiona, Uallachán realizes this and instead sends the McGovern heir to invite the magi to the wedding. A war''

[|

==Where is Lord Scirlin?==

''The third Red Knight’s location is not specified, and you can use him or not as your story demands. If the players are too weak to handle three Red Knights, Lord Scirlin is off-stage harrying the local villages, and only threats of his arrival enter play. If the players can probably handle the demons, Lord Scirlin is counting heads with Lord Varrf. Here, he retreats under the same conditions as Lord Varrf. If the party is exceptionally qualified to deal with the Infernal beings, Lord Scirlin is enjoying himself in the Prison regio with Lord Clemialh and also fights to the death.''

==Fiona McTiernan==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per –2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str –2, Sta +1, Dex –3, Qik –2 Size: –1 Age: 13 (13) Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Daughter of Landed Noble; Apt Student, Inspirational, Self-Confident; Curse of Venus, Optimistic Personality Traits: Optimistic +3, Stubborn +3 Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9– 12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Animal Handling 2 (horses), Area Lore: Briefne 2 (nobles), Athletics''
''1 (running), Brawl 2 (dodge), Charm 2 (family members), Chirurgy 2 (burns), Church Lore 1 (local priests), Craft: Weaving 2 (tapestries), Folk Ken 2 (family members), Intrigue 3 (Briefne marriage alliances), Irish 5 (poetry), Ride 2 (racing), Swim 1 (tidal waters) Equipment: Clothes suiting a young noble woman Appearance: Fiona is a fit, wiry adolescent, with dark hair and complexion and a devilish look in her eyes. One of The McTiernan’s many daughters, Fiona is the eldest and most favored. Her father’s confidante, she is used to knowing her father’s plans and being included. She does not always get her way and can be petulant and demanding. Fiona’s Characteristics and Size have been adjusted due to her age. Remove the –1 penalty when she becomes 14.''

|]
''rior, Tadhg arrives with a smaller escort, a single fellow rider. After greeting the magi he invites them to the wedding. His story is similar to Fiona’s: “I’d been raiding the McTiernan herds, taking a few head each time, and was summoned by my father. I anticipated a reprimand, especially when I saw the Templeport priest in the background, but was instead told that I’d be marrying the McTiernan girl Fiona.” Tadhg is slightly confused by this turn of events, but accepting of them. If asked, he doesn’t plan to change his behavior too much. He’ll marry a McTiernan and still raid McTiernan herds, perhaps not Fiona’s father’s but definitely her cousins’ herds. He anticipates a rousing good time at the wedding feast and hopes the player characters will accompany him. If asked who is sending the invitation, Tadhg says that the Templeport priest Father Uallachán asked his father to send him. Tadhg can be ready to return home the next day or the one after, depending on how soon the player characters can travel. The wedding is scheduled in a week or so, depending on how much time your player characters need to get ready. If the magi want to stop at their guide’s home first, adjust the schedule to allow for that. If they would rather head straight to the festivities, allow for that as well. There is also a chance that the player characters accept the invitation, but decline to return with the messenger, either Fiona or Tadhg. In that case, set a date for the wedding that accommodates their traveling desires.''

==Prenuptial Visitations==

''Depending on how the magi are reeled into this story, they may visit The McGovern or The McTiernan before attending the wedding. For better storytelling purposes, they should arrive a few days before the wedding. It takes almost a day to travel from either of the baron’s homes to the new church.''
''The McGovern Castle''
''The McGovern lives in a typical baronial castle, a stone fortification holding servants, craftsmen, his personal family, and a dozen household knights. The castle does not have an aura of any type. When the magi arrive The McGovern is preparing his departure for the wedding. It is a prestigious affair, to which all of his kin have been invited, and the preparations are time consuming. During the day The McGovern can be found in his solar, impatiently pacing back and forth while his wife, Imag, sits by the window embroidering. Neither noble is interested in talking to a Gifted individual, and finds some excuse to end any such meeting. Companions and grogs who show the proper etiquette receive an interview. The McGovern is annoyed, and not just because the wedding preparations are taking so long. He is hesitant about the upcoming marriage and that confuses him. Half the time he thinks it is sheer idiocy, but then, after a meeting, with Father Pádraig, he thinks a McGovern-McTiernan alliance makes perfect sense. He doesn’t know that the priest is supernaturally convincing him, but certainly remembers wholeheartedly agreeing to the proposition. This lingering confusion frustrates him. His wife has certainly noticed his vacillations. She has heard him scoff at the idea, then meet privately with Father Pádraig — who has always been friendly and helpful — and then loudly celebrate and accept the idea, only to wonder why he did so the next morning. If asked, she says that Father Pádraig visits every two or three days. While his musicians entertain the family, singing old songs and telling tales of the old gods and heroes, the priest speaks with The McGovern alone in the bedroom. A low-level Intellego Mentem spell (base 5) reveals that The McGovern’s mental faculties have changed drastically over the last few weeks. A low-level Intellego Vim (base 10 — detect the recent presence of weak magic) indicates that The McGovern’s mind has been recently controlled. All evidence points to Father Pádraig: the private conversations, the frequent visits, and the traces''
''of lingering mind-control magic. The McGovern is sick of agreeing and then disagreeing to the marriage, and has decided to go regardless. He’ll either marry his son to the McTiernan girl, or start a fight with his hereditary enemy, deciding when he gets there.''
''The McTiernan Castle''
''Similar in construction to the McGovern’s castle, The McTiernan’s castle sits in Tullyhunco. Fiona leads the player characters to her father’s solar, where her aging father sits in contemplation. Weaker than his Tullyhaw counterpoint, Hugh McTiernan is more easily controlled by Father Pádraig’s Entrancement power. Sitting with his wife Caoimhe (pronounced KEY-VA), his fourth wife and Fiona’s step-mother, The McTiernan welcomes visitors and thanks them for attending. His household should be ready to leave in a few days. Only ten years older than Fiona, Caoimhe is obviously not her mother. Strikingly attractive, the red-haired wife eagerly awaits the marriage, and looks forward to Fiona’s removal from the McTiernan castle. If the characters ask a servant or other household member, they hear that Caoimhe resents Fiona’s close connection to Hugh and is happy the young woman will soon be leaving. Because of her eagerness, she is not as cooperative as Imag McGovern in pointing out Father Pádraig’s interventions. If asked, she says that Father Pádraig visited the castle, which is entirely routine and part of the abbot’s duties. She says she can’t remember whose idea the marriage was, but it is such a good match that its originator is immaterial. “Tadhg needs a wife, Fiona needs a husband, and it will end a century-long feud between the families.” Caoimhe seeks to end the meeting as soon as possible and show the magi the door. Hugh has been influenced just as Gillisa McGovern has been, and the same spells mentioned previously give the same results if cast on The McTiernan. If the player characters reveal this magical manipulation, which may be difficult during Caoimhe’s insistent demands that''
''they leave, Hugh becomes angry. He insists on traveling to the new church, wearing his armor instead of packing it, and confronting Father Pádraig directly.''
''The New Church''
''Called “Domnach Nau” in Irish, the new church sits atop the mound, its stone walls gleaming white in the morning sun. The bog is gone, replaced by a large, grassy field, the fecund result of draining the former marshland. Built like many western churches, the church has two large rooms, the nave for the laity and the sanctuary for the clergy. An ornate wooden partition, called a rood screen, separates the sanctuary from the nave. The nave does not have pews, an addition that starts to appear in Mythic Europe later in the century. A porch sits outside the nave, useful for open-air events and informal congregational gatherings. The building runs west to east, porch-navesanctuary, with the main doors in the west end and the sanctuary facing east. Tents have been raised, large multicolored pavilions that serve as temporary residences and feasting halls for the wedding party. The area is busy with cooks and pages, craftsmen and laborers, all overseen by bustling monks. The first guests have arrived, groups of McGovern and McTiernan kin who keep a wary distance from each other while pretending to be civil. There is still much to be done, and Fathers Pádraig and Uallachán direct a team of monks, servants, and craftsmen as they prepare for the wedding and the church’s first Mass. The mound and church still have an Infernal aura of 1, and the fields surrounding the mound have no aura. The magi may arrive with the McGovern party, the McTiernan party, or by themselves, depending on how they chose to respond to the wedding invitation. As soon as The McGovern and The McTiernan arrive, Pádraig engages them in conversation so he can enforce their decision to marry their children with his Entrancement power. Unlike a magic spell, his Entrancement power does not need special words or significant gestures, and just happens as he stares into his victim’s eyes''
''and wills it. He commands them, “Agree to the marriage of Tadhg and Fiona,” in a soft voice, which can be overheard by bystanders. Pádraig is confident that even if he is overheard, a listener will not understand what is happening. With so many enemies in close proximity to each other, rivalries intensified by Pádraig’s free ale, the situation beneath the pavilions is tense. If the magi have already revealed Pádraig’s mind control of the barons, the situation will be worse. If goaded by a player character, a baron accuses Pádraig of possessing his mind. Pádraig tells the baron not to believe his accuser, and use Entrancement to make the suggestion stick. A powerful tool against the barons, Pádraig’s Entrancement is less effective if used against a magus, and the priest himself has little protection against magical attacks. Once accused, the abbot demands a trial to prove his innocence, and due to his ecclesiastical rank can only be tried in the bishop’s court. In the Hibernian Tribunal, this would take place in Armagh, in the province of Ulster. The accusing baron takes Pádraig into custody, and eventually takes him to Armagh to stand trial. This action happens well after the conclusion of the story and is unlikely to involve the player characters. Father Uallachán sides with the barons. He says he is surprised at his superior’s attempts to manipulate the families. Uallachán suggests that since the wedding is obviously off, the group stay, enjoy the feast, and join him in the morning for the new church’s dedication Mass. If Pádraig is not caught, he and Uallachán congratulate the happy couple and prepare for the coming ceremonies. Pádraig prepares his sermon while Uallachán waits until nightfall to enact his plan.''

==The Wedding==

''The diabolists’ plans diverge on the eve of Tadhg and Fiona’s wedding. Pádraig spends the evening contemplating the morning’s sermon and his revealing his desire to incorporate Crom Dubh into the area’s worship. Uallachán plans to include''
''more than just the Dark One’s name, and hopes to return his dark master to earth. Finally, he thinks, his time has come.''
''The Night Before''
''The clerics encourage the attendants to feast, and have provided ample food and drink. The hired musicians and poets sing the old songs, the same ones they have been playing at the barons’ castles. The player characters may find the subject matter odd and comment on it. The locals shrug and say that Pádraig has been encouraging such music for a few years. Most enjoy the musical revival and tap their feet in accompaniment. No one takes the subject matter seriously. That evening Uallachán skulks to the new church, and under the light of a ring of black candles inscribes a summoning circle in the sanctuary behind the altar. Once complete he stuffs two bog revenant heads beneath the altar, trophies acquired in the time between adventures. Each head holds two pawns of Corpus vis sordida. Each pawn of vis sordida (or vis prava) adds +5 to Uallachán’s Summoning Total. At midnight, Uallachán summons a Red Knight, and then commands it to attack the storyguide character the player characters are most fond of. He then follows the Red Knight to the target’s tent, because he wants to be on hand when the magi defeat it. There is a chance that Uallachán is stopped before this point. Suspicious player characters may spy on him, magically or simply by following him, and if successful see him sneak to the church, light the candles, and start drawing a summoning circle. Any magus who sees this circle, drawn with compressed sticks made of charcoal and Uallachán’s blood, knows what it is. It takes him 30 minutes to draw the circle, plenty of time for a watcher to run and get the magi. If apprehended at this point, Uallachán uses his Incantation/ Psychomachia powers to control shield grogs and make them attack their magi masters, then flee in the confusion. He uses the vis in the revenant heads to bolster the strength of his maleficia. The magi have a chance to interrupt Uallachán’s summoning if they arrive in''
''time. Because of the close connection to the mound and its original residents, it only takes the diabolist three rounds to summon a Red Knight. At the end of the third round, check Uallachán’s Summoning Total to see if he is successful (see insert). If disturbed during the summoning, Uallachán needs to make a suc''
''cessful Stamina + Concentration + stress die check against an Ease Factor based on the type of interruption (see ArM5, page 82). If he successfully summons a Red Knight while under attack, he orders the demon to protect him. While under no obligation to the diabolist, the Red Knight joins the fray for the sheer''
''pleasure of it. If Uallachán succeeds undetected, the summoned Red Knight marches down the mound to the pavilions and starts searching for his target, either Tadhg or Fiona. This causes a ruckus among the late night drinkers, whose cries for help wake sleeping player char''

[|

==Storyguide Character Advancement, Five Years Later==

''The characters from the previous adventures age another five years, each receiving 75 experience points. All four characters will be encountered, so it is important that their character sheets are up-to-date.''
''Tadhg McGovern''
''Tadhg becomes a knight in his father’s retinue. Make the following adjustments to his character sheet. Virtues and Flaws: Landed Noble; Knight, Second Sight; Overconfident, Heir, Reckless Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Long Sword: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +6, Damage +8 Long Sword (mounted): Init +2, Attack +14, Defense +9, Damage +8  Abilities: Ride 3 (in pursuit), Single Weapon 4 (long sword)''
''Fiona McTiernan''
''Stepping from childhood into adolescence, Fiona becomes a leading figure in the McTiernan household. Make the following adjustments to Her character sheet: Characteristics: Int +3, Per –1, Pre +1, Com +2, Str –1, Sta +2, Dex –2, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 18 (18) Confidence Score: 2 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Landed Noble; Apt Student, Inspirational, Self-Confident; Curse of Venus, Optimistic Personality Traits: Optimistic +3, Stubborn +3 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Soak: +2''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Leadership 2 (household staff), Intrigue 3 (local noble politics)''
''Father Pádraig''
''Having undergone an Infernal Initiation, Pádraig has a new Virtue and a new Flaw. Adjust his character sheet as follows: Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta –3, Dex –3, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 68 (62) Decrepitude: 1 (13) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Entrancement; Clumsy, False Power (Entrancement), Monastic Vows Personality Traits: Bureaucratic +3, Orderly +2, Greedy (for money) +2 Reputations: Wise Leader 4 (Ecclesiastic) Hierarchy: 2 New Abilities: Entrancement 5 (nobles)''
''Entrancement allows Pádraig to convince the nobles to marry their heirs. Since this is a False Power, Pádraig does not know it is aligned to the Infernal, and instead thinks it is derived from the Magic realm. It is not, and characters with Sense Holiness/Unholiness may be able to sense this power’s Infernal taint.''
''Father Uallachán''
''If the player characters “rescued” Uallachán from the Basalt Tower, they interrupted his Infernal Initiation and he does not receive the Major Virtue: Infernal Blessing. If the player characters did not enter the Basalt Tower, or failed to remove Uallachán from the prison regio, he finished his Infernal Initiation and''
''has the Virtue. In either case, Uallachán spends the last five years practicing his Summoning and Commanding powers. Adjust his character sheet as follows: Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1 (1), Pre +3, Com +3, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex –2 (2), Qik –1 (1) Age: 45 (44) Decrepitude: 1 (1) Warping Score: 0 (3) Confidence Score: 1 (8) Virtues and Flaws: Diabolist, Priest; Ablating, Commanding, Incantation, Infernal Blessing*, Psychomachia, Summoning; Affinity with Summoning, Improved Characteristics, Mentored by Demons, Student of Infernal (free); Driven (to return the old gods), Tragic Life; Corrupted Abilities, Manufactured Ignorance, Vow of Celibacy, Witch Marks *Received through Initiation Reputations: Worships False Gods 3 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 3 Soak: 0 Abilities: Commanding 12 (Furies), Penetration 4 (Summoning), Summoning 15 (9) (False Gods) Favored Maleficia: The Perfidious Dagger (Incantation/Psychomachia 30/+14): This maleficium makes the target attack someone chosen by the caster. Uallachán will use this maleficium to make grogs attack their magi. (Base 15, +2 Voice, +1 Diameter) The Major Virtue: Infernal Blessing confers 120 levels of maleficia effects, each effect with a maximum effect of level 60. Uallachán’s effects are: Infernal Protection (15 magic resistance, level 40), Infernal Greatness (Uallachán receives Greater Immunity to steel, level 60), and Infernal Ability (Uallachán’s palms and feet can turn tacky, allowing him to climb walls and ceilings like a spider, level 20).''

|]
''acters. Commanded to kill his target, the Red Knight fights to the death. Uallachán waits in the wings of the watching crowd. Once the Red Knight falls, Uallachán warns the crowd of the dangers of the corpse and offers to remove it. He desperately wants the sword, worth 6 pawns of vis prava (+30 to his Ars Goetia attempts). The Red Knight may be too powerful for the group. In this case, the demon kills its target and, fulfilling its order, leaves the mundane realm. Following tomorrow’s Mass, Uallachán promises to hold a funeral instead of a wedding.''
''The Morning''
''If the wedding is still on, Father Pádraig and Father Uallachán are in the church readying the Mass that proceeds the marriage ceremony. If Pádraig has been apprehended and the wedding is off, Uallachán invites his guests to the Mass. The barons and 200 guests crowd the nave. The officiating priest, Pádraig or Uallachán, asks Tadhg and Fiona to join him in the sanctuary. Those in the sanctuary are separated from the nave by the rood screen. Only the first few ranks of the congregation can hear the ceremony, which is spoken in Latin. Most of the guests, even the barons, aren’t paying''
''close attention to the clerics. Father Uallachán leads the Mass. To those with scores in Theology, everything seems normal. The church has been consecrated previously, and the Mass is the Dominion rite that will give the area a Dominion aura (Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, page 11). Midway through, his back to the crowd, Uallachán stops the Mass and starts his summoning ritual, which takes five rounds to complete. Father Pádraig, if present, notices the change but does nothing. Tadhg and Fiona stand unaware, unable to tell the difference between a Latin Mass and the Latin summoning incantations. A keen observer sees Uallachán take the Red Knight’s sword from the alter, or the revenant heads if he was unable to get the sword, on a Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 12 (remember that the viewer is looking through the small slits in the rood screen). The magi have a chance to stop the ritual. If they are in the front of the nave, noticing Uallachán switching from the Mass to the summoning ritual requires a successful Perception + Awareness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Raise the Ease Factor to 15 if they are near the middle of the room, and to 18 if they are standing in the rear. To catch the shift from Mass to the summoning ritual the listener must speak Latin and must succeed with an Intelligence + Theology simple roll against an Ease Factor of 6. Once the ritual has been noticed, there are many ways to interrupt his summoning by breaking his concentration, from a spectacular spell to a simple shove. Use the concentration rules (ArM5, page 82). If they succeed, he is surely at their mercy, his strength lying in his Ars Goetia and not in direct confrontations. Uallachán asks for an ecclesiastical trial. The barons pause, and if not influenced by the player characters agree, bundling the priest in chains and dragging him off with Pádraig. Uallachán is the more dangerous of the two. As soon as he is able he draws a summoning circle and conjures demons for aid. Until he is slain he continues to be a thorn in the barons’ side.''
''If not interrupted, he finishes his summoning ritual. A dark smear forms in the air, and in a single round coagulates into Crom Dubh, the Dark One. Fiona screams.''

==His Hellish Bonds Broken==

''Uallachán must concentrate to keep Crom Dubh in the summoning circle. Knowing that he can’t concentrate and attempt to control the demon, he stops, hoping to command the demon before it reacts. Faster and stronger, Crom Dubh strides from the circle and strikes the diabolist to the ground. Moving past the terrified bride and groom, he throws the rood screen aside with a powerful backhanded blow. The demon is beautiful, appearing as a Biblical king of old. With bronzed skin and sculpted chest, he strides forth wearing shining chain mail. His black beard is oiled and groomed, and his long black hair falls to his shoulders in curled ringlets. A lion stands behind him, tail swinging lazily. Crom Dubh addresses the crowd. “My people,” he says in the area’s native tongue, “I have returned. Much has happened in my absence, and many need to be brought back to my banner, but all will be remedied.” He promises wealth and opportunity to the powerful, to those who have stood by the old gods and the old ways. Crom Dubh then uses his Obsession power on Gillisa McGovern, giving him a temporary Personality Trait: Murderous +1. Following this he uses his Gather the Murderous power to force The McGovern to join his side. Hugh McTiernan flatly refuses to join the Dark One, as do his men. “We will build a new kingdom,” Crom Dubh cries, “We will rule a new world!” Crom Dubh uses his Sculpt the Bloody Battlefield power and causes a chasm to open in the church floor under the feet of the McTiernans. Initially a long, sinister crack, in two rounds the crack widens into a gaping chasm 15 feet wide, 60 feet long, and 30 feet deep. To avoid falling in the pit, characters need to make an Athletics + Quickness''

[|

==Pádraig’s Entrancement==

''There is a chance that Pádraig will use his Entrancement Ability in play. Rules for using Entrancement can be found in ArM5, page 65. To resist, the target gets a Stamina + stress die roll, with a bonus based on the specifics of the command. The marriage proposal is a questionable command. Not believing what a Gifted character says in an innocuous command. Attacking a superior is a dangerous command. Gillisa McGovern has a Stamina +2, and the feebler Hugh McTiernan has a Stamina of 0. Pádraig’s Entrancement is an Infernal power and receives a bonus in an Infernal aura.''

|]
''stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Those who fall take +30 Damage. Make Quickness stress rolls for the principal storyguide characters. Crom Dubh then orders The McGovern to have his men attack those who didn’t fall in the chasm. Swayed by his temporary Personality Trait, The McGovern happily complies and orders his men to attack their longtime enemies. As the McGovern warriors rush into the McTiernans, Crom Dubh summons bog revenants and Red Knights from Hell to help, spending up to half his Might points in this manner. Anticipate a wild melee, as the player characters fight Crom Dubh’s deluded and supernatural forces. Women and children flee. Leaving the battle to his minions, Crom Dubh uses his Sculpt the Bloody Battlefield power to craft steps into the side of the chasm. Descending to the bottom, his surviving diabolists behind him, he opens a pathway to the first regio in the mound, which leads to the Hall of Revenants (see adventure one). From there he proceeds to the Obsidian Throne Room, where he will rest and regain his Might. Of the approximately 200 guests, half are soldiers, and half of them have followed their baron to join Crom Dubh. Aided by a handful of revenants and a Red Knight or two, they have the advantage in the fight. Don’t concentrate on the overall melee, focus on the player characters. Do they fight or do they flee? Or do they chase Crom Dubh into his hole and attack him? If they fight, treat the warriors as standard soldiers (ArM5, page 22), who brought their axes but left heater shields and scale mail in their tents. Five untrained solders and one supernatural entity — use your best judgment based on the player characters’ capabilities whether this is a revenant or a Red Knight — rush the magi. If the magi win, send a second and then third group, which should include Red Knights. If they defeat those groups, assume that the remaining warriors allied with Crom Dubh have also been defeated. If they flee, give the players the chance to make heroic decisions even though their characters are in flight: a knight threatens a helpless woman, Fiona trips and hangs from the edge of the''
''chasm, Tadhg is hard pressed by a revenant. Give them some small measure of victory so that their retreat doesn’t leave a sour taste in their mouths. Naturally, they will return better prepared to deal with Crom Dubh and his minions. If they are powerful enough, and brave enough, to charge after Crom Dubh, interrupt their dash forward with a group of soldiers and a Red Knight, positioned to cover their master’s departure. Give Crom Dubh five or six rounds to reach the bottom of the chasm and slip into the mound’s regiones. If the magi can overwhelm the soldiers quickly, they meet the Dark One on the stairs. Just out of the Stinking Pit, Crom Dubh is not about to go back. He fights for a few rounds, but if seriously threatened takes spiritual form and retreats. His first choice is to fly to the Obsidian Throne Room, but if the magi are hot on his heels he rushes instead into the countryside, looking for some natural hiding place where he can recover and summon his generals and their legions.''

==Dealing with the Dark One==

''If the magi could not defeat Crom Dubh immediately, they need to return to deal with the False God. The longer they wait, the stronger Crom Dubh’s army grows. Based around his manipulated baron, knights join him daily, swayed by the promise of easy gold and martial victory. Soon parties of knights and men-at-arms ride out to raid the countryside. Each week more knights ride to Crom Dubh’s banner, enticed by his jingoistic nationalism, “What was once ours will be ours again,” and swayed by his bottomless wallet. Within a month Crom Dubh’s army is strong enough to take Tullyhunco. Two weeks later they take a second neighboring barony, and a week after that a third barony falls to the Dark One. At that point, the king of Briefne fields an army to stop the Dark One. Unfortunately, the odds favor the False God, and the recent drain on the king’s treasure sorely limits the size of his army. Total war has come to the Tribunal.''

[|

==Uallachán’s Ars Goetia==

''Summoning Totals, Summoning Target levels, Commanding Totals, and Commanding Target levels are all described in Realms of Power: Infernal, Chapter 11. For simplicity’s sake, Uallachán’s Summoning Total to summon a demon in the new church is 68 + a stress die, and his Commanding Total to command a demon in the new church is 58 + a stress die. The Target levels for both Summoning and Commanding are 55 for a Red Knight and 95 for Crom Dubh. If Uallachán achieves double the Summoning Target level, the demon is trapped in the summoning circle and must stay until dismissed. If Uallachán merely exceeds the Summon Target level, the demon only stays in the summoning circle while Uallachán concentrates. If the demon is trapped in a summon''
''ing circle, Uallachán need only exceed the Commanding Target level to command the demon. If the demon is not in a summoning circle, Uallachán needs to double the Commanding Target level. For ease of play, if the player characters are not in the new church on the night before the wedding, Uallachán succeeds in summoning a Red Knight, then maintains concentration and commands it to attack a storyguide character. If the players are in the new church, make Uallachán’s Summoning roll. Make Uallachán’s Summoning roll when he tries to summon Crom Dubh. He has almost no hope of doubling the Target level, and only wants to summon his False God. If he has vis prava from a Red Knight he will use it. If not, he will use the vis sordida from the bog revenant heads.''

|]
''On the Field''
''The magi may decide to defeat Crom Dubh and his army on the field of battle. The demon starts with the 50 knights who swore fealty in the church, and each week adds ten additional knights and a score of men-at-arms to his host. The Dark One leads his forces, having replaced The McGovern as the leader of the army. In the field Crom Dubh uses his The Dark Clouds Gather power to block sunlight and protect himself from its harmful rays. It is unlikely that the magi have an army with them, but they may have found a way to clandestinely join the king of Briefne’s army. Mass combat is handled as a series of vignettes, each focusing on a smaller combat that includes the player characters. If the characters can win three such events, they win the battle. Each event lasts for five combat rounds. Lords of Men has detailed rules to develop other events than the three described. Lords of Men also has combat statistics for standard combat groups (page 108).''
''Event One: Attacking the Line''
''Crom Dubh rides in the center of his army, so the magi have to penetrate ranks of warriors to reach him. Mounted knights ride in the front, a typical medieval tactic, offering a solid line of gleaming mail and burnished swords. The magi must defeat two trained groups of five mounted knights to succeed, meaning they have broken through the line and stand in a wild, chaotic melee. Failure means that the magi can’t push through, and must try again at a different point in the line; repeat this event with a slightly different sized force.''
''Event Two: Awash among the Infantry''
''Having bashed through the front, the characters stand surrounded by footmen. Three groups of five untrained infantry charge with poleaxes. The magi must rout them within five rounds, by slaying more than half of them (8 menat-arms), or through magical effects.''
''Taking longer brings more infantry to bear. Failure means that the characters are pushed away from the army’s center and must deal with the mounted knights again; repeat Event One.''
''Event Three: Take the General’s Head''
''Their success takes the magi to the very heart of the army, and the group stands before Crom Dubh. The False God is mounted on a huge destrier, accompanied by a trained group of five mounted knights, who act as the Dark One’s defender. So defended, the Dark One creates pits beneath the magi’s warriors’ feet, dropping them into the ground and disrupting their group. Once the magi’s party is in disarray the group of knights disperses, each knight picking an individual target. The Dark One saves the magi for himself, and will not spare them for anything. This event can take as many rounds as necessary. If the characters gain the upper hand, Crom Dubh assumes his spiritual form (this takes one combat round) and retreats to the mound. If he can; the magi might be too strong for him and kill him quickly. In both cases, the Dark One’s army is defeated and a general rout ensues.''
''Below Ground''
''The magi may want to defeat the Dark One below ground, in his throne room under the mound. Attacking immediately after Crom Dubh returns to the mundane realm is easiest. If the magi linger and let Crom Dubh assemble an army, he uses the church as his headquarters and keeps his troops in the surrounding field. While his troops are on campaign, he periodically returns to his throne room to plot and scheme, changing into his spiritual form to quickly make the journey from the battlefield to his headquarters. The magi may lie in ambush, waiting for his return. Use your judgment in deciding how to populate the mound’s interior. If the group can handle a greater challenge, let them encounter revenants in the Hall of''
''Revenants. Add a Red Knight or two to the scene in the Chamber of Sacrifices, which might include the diabolist Uallachán. Bolster the Red Knights with soldiers if necessary. If the player characters will be hard pressed just to defeat Crom Dubh, they meet him alone in the Ob''
''sidian Throne Room, where he sits contemplating his evil machinations. If they need aid, let them gather resources in the time between Crom Dubh’s initial summoning and this battle. Templeport may have a relic or other Divine item they can borrow. For example, the breastplate''
''of St. Patrick grants the wielder Divine Magic Resistance of 40, the white fruit of St. Kevin instantly heals an eater’s Heavy Wound, and the crozier of Colm Cille (St. Columba) smites demons, delivering a blast of Demon’s Eternal Oblivion that reduces a demon’s Infernal Might by''

[|

==Crom Dubh, The Dark One==

''Crom Dubh is the Irish phrase for “The Dark One.” In other Tribunals he is known by other names. An evil mirror of the pagan god Mithras, Crom Dubh is the Prince of Slaughter and desires the worship of warriors, murderers, and other assorted killers. Order: False Gods Infernal Might: 50 (Terram) Characteristics: Int +1, Per –2, Pre +2, Com +3, Str +5, Sta +4, Dex +5, Qik +4 Size: +1 Confidence Score: 1 (6) Virtues and Flaws: Large, Puissant Great Weapon Personality Traits: Proud +6, Murderous +6 Reputations: Prince of Slaughter 9 (Infernal) Hierarchy: 9 Combat: Dodge: Init +4, Attack n/a, Defense +11, Damage n/a Gauntlet: Init +4, Attack +13, Defense +13, Damage +7 Great sword: Init +6, Attack +21, Defense +17, Damage +14 Great sword, mounted: Init +6, Attack +24, Defense +20, Damage +14 Soak: +13 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 4 (searching), Brawl 7 (gauntlet), Infernal Lore 5 (diabolists), Leadership 6 (knights), Great Weapon 9+2 (great sword), Ride 3 (flank attacks) Powers: Coagulation, 5 points, Init –1, Corpus: This power lets Crom Dubh assume his human form. Obsession, 1 – 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Crom Dubh can implant the Personality Trait: Murderous +1 to +3,''
''depending on the number of Might points spent. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem: Crom Dubh can appear in a sleeping person’s dream (1 point cost) or make a target experience a waking dream (5 points). Shroud the Stench of the Pit, variable points, Init +3, Vim: Crom Dubh can mask the Infernal nature of his other Supernatural Powers. The Wealth of Nations, 3 points, Init +0, Terram: Crom Dubh transfers wealth from one treasury to his own (Realms of Power: the Infernal, page 37) His Commander’s Voice, variable points, Init +1, Vim: Crom Dubh leads 66 generals and their legions. He can summon generals (Red Knights) and legionnaires (bog revenants), which magically appear that round and attack the nearest living thing. It costs 2 Might points to summon a revenant and 6 to summon a Red Knight. The Dark Clouds Gather, 5 points, Init +3, Auram: Crom Dubh can create an overcast sky, gathering a large assembly of dark clouds. While rain looks imminent, the clouds do not unleash their watery content. Once created they are vulnerable to natural and supernatural effects. Sculpt the Bloody Battlefield, 4 points, Init +4, Terram: This power allows Crom Dubh to cast Rego and Perdo Terram effects, which he can use the alter the terrain. The highest level effect possible is 20. He typically uses this power to mimic the Hermetic Spell Pit of the Gaping Earth, The Earth’s Carbuncle, and Crest of the Earth. Gather the Murderous, 1 point, Init +6, Mentem: With this power Crom Dubh can immediately convince a''
''warrior to join with the Dark One in battle. The victim must have some type of warlike or belligerent Personality Trait. Targets get a resistance roll based on Stamina + stress die + peaceful Personality Trait against an Ease Factor of 9. Crom Dubh often uses this power after using his Obsession power on a target. Tread the Master’s Halls, 0 points, Init +4, Vim: Crom Dubh can pass between all the regiones in the mound whenever he wants. Weakness: Vulnerability: Sunlight Vis: 10 pawns of Vim vis prava in his two eyes Appearance: Tall, broad-shouldered, and beautiful, Crom Dubh is a muscular man standing a head and a half taller than average. He is clad in gleaming steel chainmail and wields a great sword. He wears a samite cloak trimmed with leopard fur. A lion always appears nearby.''
''The lion is part of Crom Dubh and not a separate entity. In combat it can make its own attacks, but shares Crom Dubh’s Fatigue Levels, Wound Levels, and Magic Resistance. In battle the lion has the following stats: Size: +2 Combat: Claws: Init +4, Attack +18, Defense +15, Damage +9 Bite: Init +4, Attack +16, Defense +12, Damage +8 Soak: +10''
''The Dark One is vulnerable to light. He cannot stand bright light, and sunlight can actuality wound him. He suffers a Light Wound for each round he is hit by direct sunlight.''

|]
''5 with a Penetration of 55. They could also ask the Order of Hermes for help, calling in specialists and known demon hunters to help destroy Crom Dubh. Use your best judgment; don’t hand out an easy victory, but try not to dole out any early graves.''

==Dealing with the Diabolist==

''Having failed to control Crom Dubh, Uallachán hopes to serve as a lieutenant in the Dark One’s new reign. He follows his master down the chasm and ensconces himself in the Sacrificial Chamber. Hoping to fill the sacrificial pit with corpses, he slays any prisoners captured in the upcoming warfare. On the far side of the pit he draws a summoning circle, and summons bog revenants to ablate, slowly collecting a store of vis sordida. Once he has amassed 12 pawns, the maximum number that he can use in a Commanding attempt, he tries to control Crom Dubh. 12 pawns (+75) + Commanding Total (58) + a stress die needs to beat an Ease Factor of 190, or''
''95 if Crom Dubh is standing in a summoning circle. The later is unlikely, as is Uallachán’s chance of success. Nonetheless, he attempts it. When the characters encounter him, he has just finished summoning a bog revenant, who stands in the summoning circle. When Uallachán notices the magi he commands the bog revenant to attack them. He has to succeed on a Commanding stress die roll, which he will unless he botches the roll. He then uses his maleficia in an attempt to make the grogs attack the magi. The Infernal aura adds to his maleficia total (+3), and he uses pawns of vis sordida to ensure success. He has 8 pawns of Corpus vis sordida. If outmatched, he flees to the Obsidian Throne Room, hoping Crom Dubh is there to assist him. If Crom Dubh isn’t in residence, Uallachán falls to his knees and begs for mercy. He hopes that pity is the magi’s weakness. His contrition is feigned, and in his black heart he continues to scheme and plot. He promises anything, yet when alone returns to his evil summonings. The player characters should have no remorse over killing such a recalcitrant villain.''

==The Conclusion==

''Once the dust and brimstone settle the characters can participate in the necessary healing and repairs. The new church can be fixed, the chasm filled in, and the floor mended with new stone. A celebrant can perform Mass and enact a Dominion aura, which overrides the previous Infernal aura. The first level of the regio becomes part of the mundane world. The mound becomes permanent, and the Infernal regiones in the mound lie beneath the church’s Dominions aura, inaccessible as long as the Dominion aura remains. The villagers return to their former homes and begin anew. Grudges are kept, certainly, but the horror has ended. Besides experience and Confidence points, which you should award generously, each member of the group receives a positive Reputation in both local and Hermetic circles. Long will the area remember those who stood fast and defeated Crom Dubh!''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
