''Facing challenges from a supernatural agency is a normal occurrence for a covenant, and most threats can be dealt with using a combination of magic and diplomacy. But when the challenge is a threat to the magi’s way of life, when the antagonists are mystics with powers deeply rooted in the Dominion and powerful connections in the church, and when the magi face an unknown traitor in the Order, the situation must be handled in delicate and perhaps unconventional ways.''

==The Antagonist==

''The main antagonist for this Sequel is Fabianus, a magus ex Miscellanea and the architect of the Servants of God. He has a grand plan for unifying the Order of Hermes with the Church, merging magic with the divine. Fabianus uses magic to disguise himself in the rare occasions he is around other magi, and has done so for decades. The archdeacon, canons, and anyone else not of the Order of Hermes know him simply as Hugo — a pious academic with knowledge of divine powers. These safety measures ensure that his plot is not easily exposed. Note that in sections detailing actions he takes he is referred to as Fabianus, but when mentioned in descriptions or events connected with clergy he is referred to as Hugo.''

==The Plan==

''In the decades prior to this sequence of connected stories, Fabianus has been working toward his grand goals. He plans to revive the Servants of God, and work with the Church so that its temporal power is on his side. He has found three church canons — later referred to as the three mystics — who are intellectual descendants of the Servants of God, and ensured they have the necessary resources to develop their skills. He has told them about the older tradition, and they are genuinely supportive of his plans. When Fabianus met Archdeacon Petrus he was impressed by the man’s personal zeal, and began offering him advice and assistance. He guided the three mystics and the archdeacon through Contemplative Mysticism to learn Ceremony, so that they can perform miraculous effects of great magnitude. Years before these events Fabianus advised the archdeacon to enlist the help of priests across the diocese in looking for unnatural or strange events. Fabianus intends to either find evidence of Hermetic interference or the work of some other supernatural agency in a place where the mundane populace was suffering. By helping the community overcome these difficulties he wants to show to mundanes and the Church alike that magic can be used for good and can be attuned to the Divine realm, and convince the Order of Hermes that they can and should harmonize with the Dominion. As the canons became powerful holy mystics under his guidance, he discovered Edward — a Gifted boy — among the orphans in a church school and''
''instructed him in Holy Magic rather than normal Hermetic magic. Edward is being taught by both Fabianus and the mystics, and to counteract the detrimental effects of The Gift, Fabianus taught him the secret of Parma Magica at once, so that he could share it with his teachers among the clergy. This is without doubt a violation of the Code of Hermes, clearly Fabianus’ greatest mistake. The plan is for Edward to finish his training before he is introduced to the Order, and once he has sworn the Code the risk of someone realizing that he knew the Parma early is minimal. Fabianus hopes that Edward and his future filii will form a new tradition within House ex Miscellanea, with a tradition that will include unGifted mystics trained in Holy Powers. In time Fabianus hopes to advocate the teaching of Parma Magica at the beginning rather at the end of apprenticeship.''

==The Catalyst==

''One year before the first story unfolds the magi Decarius of Tremere and Arctura of Flambeau are once again at odds over the settlement referred to as the Town. Decarius digs the natural harbor deeper, bringing more ships and trade. He aims to boost trade and crafts, and brings in his own covenfolk to set up businesses. His long time rival Arctura also has her eye on the Town in order to find recruits for her piratical projects, so she prefers it to be difficult to make an honest living there. Arctura suspects (rightly) that Decarius used magic to help the Town’s recent growth along, and lodges a complaint with the Quaesitores, alleging that''

=Servants of God=

''the use of magic may unbalance the natural order of things or possibly endanger the Order. The Quaesitores, in turn, send Eutropia to investigate. A priest finds the sudden de-silting of the harbor to be a highly unusual and unnatural event, and alerts the archdeacon. Once Fabianus’ attention is on the location, he discovers that Arctura and Decarius both are active in the settlement, and at odds. Fabianus involves himself as a neutral mediator between the two magi, both to resolve their conflict and to monitor the situation. As news of the fire reaches Fabianus, he knows this is sure to trigger a formal complaint from the archdeacon to the Quaesitores. Eutropia is still at Arctura and Decarius’ covenant, and a senior Quaesitor arrives to brief her on the developments in the case. As the meeting of the magi breaks up to allow Eutropia to speak with her superior, Fabianus decides to scry on mundane covenfolk but accidentally overhears a part of the two Quaesitors’ conversation. Even through it was an accident, scrying on sodales is prohibited by the Code, which Fabianus has sworn to uphold, and therefore sinful. Fabianus was weak, and did not stop scrying the moment he realized that magi were present. This is something he truly regrets, and he does penance with charitable work afterward. Fabianus honestly believes the fire to be the work of a Hermetic magus and the start of a major incident, although in truth it is a mundane accident. Arctura is the obvious suspect due to her House, but both she and Decarius are uncooperative and each is trying to “improve” the evidence implicating the other. Fabianus wants justice be done, but also to show how the same energy used to disrupt mundane society could be harnessed to help instead. Information about Decarius and Arctura is found toward the end of this chapter, as they may appear again for the final events. Eutropia visits the closest covenant to enlist the help of more neutral magi, thus bringing the player magi on stage.''

==Preparation==

''Before these stories are run the storyguide needs to fit them into the saga.''

==Geography==

''This sequence of stories deliberately does not use specific locations; it can take place in almost any Tribunal with minor adaptation. The non-magi have names that have versions in most European languages, and can easily be adapted. The storyguide should decides on three locations fairly close to the player magi’s covenant, ideally places that the characters know of in advance.''
''The Town''
''The first story takes place in a small town experiencing rapid growth, henceforth referred to as the Town. It is not the closest settlement to the covenant, nor the place where the bulk of their income or supplies is generated, nor their main vis source, nor the location of a chapter house or an important ally or contact. Instead, it should be a place where the magi could have future plans''
''for expansion, business, or a network of informers, where servants or specialists can be recruited, or a frequent stopping point on travel routes. The covenant might have secondary business interests here, which deepens their involvement in ways that are discussed later. The Town has already seen a significant migration from rural areas. It is a coastal town where currents appear to have formed a deeper harbor within the last year, allowing larger ships to dock. A river navigable by barges leads to large settlements — the City, for instance — resulting in increased trade and transport business. Raw materials shipped to this harbor are worked into finished goods by a growing number of craftsmen. The important feature is that the town is rapidly expanding due to a recent unexpected improvement in circumstances, which was caused by interfering magi. The town could be placed inland with only minor adaptation.''
''The City''
''The second location is a large town or a city, henceforth referred to as the City. This is where the archdeacon normally resides, and it has a large church housing the chapter of canons, which is referred to as the Urban Church. The''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Holy Societas: Servants of God==

''Generations ago a holy tradition known as the Servants of God, the predecessors of the antagonists of this story, practiced Divine supernatural effects. As their ranks thinned due to the rarity of True Faith, members began guiding mundane clerics through Contemplative Mysticism into single Method and Power combinations to avoid dying out. Contemplative Mysticism is described in The Church, pages 21–22. In short, characters can gain holy Virtues by performing a series of pious actions. When a holy mystic called Diludicus was the only member with True Faith, the tradition formally disbanded. The individual holy mys''
''tics (people possessing one or more Holy Methods, Powers, or Divine Supernatural Abilities) spread out, and their students often rose to significant positions within the church. Diludicus took a Gifted child as apprentice, joined the Order of Hermes, and guided his filius to learn Holy Magic. The last Hermetic descendant of this line is Fabianus, the primary antagonist of this story, who inherited the library of the Servants of God, a collection of considerable power. As the story starts Fabianus is a little-known magus, regarded as pious and no more than a hedge wizard. His roots in the holy tradition are generally unknown.''

|}
''Urban Church’s crypt holds the base of operations for Fabianus and his holy mystics. Distance from the player covenant is only limited by the need to be within the same diocese. The City may very well have more churches than the archdeacon’s. However this sequence of stories does not involve the bishop of the diocese, and therefore the City should not hold his cathedral. The player magi need no prior connections to this place.''
''The Neighboring Covenant''
''The third location is the Neighboring Covenant, which can have any existing relationship with the player covenant, or none. This is the covenant of Arctura and Decarius, but further details of this covenant and other magi are not presented in this material, since it depends heavily on the saga setting. The saga may even already have two magi in dispute to take the roles intended for Arctura and Decarius. In either case one or more of these magi have previously meddled in minor affairs in the Town,''
''leading to raised eyebrows but no legal action. The Neighboring Covenant does not play a major role in the stories, so it should be easy to use an existing covenant in the role.''

==Hardship and Blessing==

''It is essential to the first story that something cause hardship to the inhabitants of the Town. The material presented is based on a great fire ravaging the settlement, destroying many buildings and damaging most of the surrounding ones, but another disaster can easily be substituted. The important points are that the disaster is natural, that its effects are localized, and that it badly damages, but does not wipe out, the Town. The archdeacon himself visits the settlements affected along with a few of his canons — the three holy mystics — and Fabianus (known to them as Hugo), who poses as an assistant to the clerics. As part of their special sermons they work minor divine effects. The''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Expected Sequence of Play==

''This sequence is the most obvious way for the stories to play out. Naturally, players will not follow the obvious route.''
''Story I: A Fire in the Town Investigating the Town Existence of a traitor is discovered Reporting to the archdeacon''
''Interlude: Silence Follows Thunder Setting a trap''
''Story II: The Urban Church Finding the mystics Learning of Fabianus’ plans''
''Interlude: Preparation for Tribunal Political events''
''Story III: Tribunal Scrying on the Quaesitores Teaching Parma Magica Future of the Servants of God''

|}
''archdeacon, who does not know of the supernatural powers of the holy mystics, attributes the results to the power of prayer. The effects help the local populace in the pious work of rebuilding their homes and shops, in caring for the sick and injured, and in growing their food. Those indulging in sin and not attending church were never affected by the blessings. By comparison, it seems they are suffering punishment and bad luck, but there is no such curse.''

==Divine and Infernal Influence==

''While the power of the divine is intervening to support the Town, it does so in a subtle way. Fortuitous events like finding resources and provisions unharmed by a destructive fire, or the rapid rebuilding by the townsfolk are remarkable, but they do not attract an influx of investigating clergy and visiting pilgrims. Player characters with''
''Holy Magic or True Faith may have better understanding of the divine effects, but what they do with that understanding is up to them. On the other side of the battle, Mythic Europe features demons often thought responsible for sickness and misfortune. Players and characters may initially suspect a demonic plot in the Town, but there is none, and the mystics and clerics are specifically not infernally corrupted. If the players do not accept that the complete absence of evidence of demonic involvement is, in fact, evidence of the absence of demonic involvement, they may make misjudgments with very serious consequences. It is up to the troupe to decide how to handle that.''

==Political Climate==

''Events in the latter part of this sequence involve a Tribunal and different political factions. We assume that the saga already has an established Tribunal, and that there are factions within it that will either have differing opinions on Fabianus’ actions, or oppose each other on general principles. Only in the most unusual Tribunals would it be difficult to justify controversy over these events, but storyguides must adapt the details for themselves.''

==Story I: A Fire in the Town==

''The first part of this series of stories is the investigation of a fire in the Town for evidence of supernatural interference. As discussed in the nearby insert the player character can become involved in several different ways, but the text assumes that they are asked to assist a Quaesitorial investigation.''

==Thrice-Told Tales Eutropia Arrives==

''Eutropia of Guernicus, a junior Quaesitor, arrives as planned, with a single grog named Michael. She is expecting the characters to help with her investigation, as requested. Her core competences lie in magical investigation rather than people skills or offensive power, and so she would appreciate a local and sociable guide in addition to protection. She politely informs the magi that their neighbors are suspects in the case. Time is of the essence if they want any chance of sensing traces of supernatural effects, as the disaster struck little over three months ago. If the player magi refuse to help, Eutropia leaves in a huff and continues on her own. Her investigation is consequently minimal and her report criticizes the unhelpful covenant. In this case there is no story about the investigation, and you should skip to the conclusion of this first story. The player magi may also choose to investigate by themselves without collaborating with Eutropia. She carries out her own investigation on her original schedule, and the if player magi leave right away they may meet up in Town.''

==What is Known==

''The players may roll Int + Organization Lore: Order of Hermes when the magi first hear the names of the magi involved in these stories. Consult the table below to see what they know. Apply a +1 to +3 bonus for taking the time to research books and records, or correspond with appropriate sodales.''
''Ease Factor Information 6 Fabianus ex Miscellanea is known  to be a magus dealing in   incomprehensible magic, a hedge  wizard, living an unremarkable   life within the Order. Arctura is a  Flambeau and Decarius is a Tremere   from the Neighboring Covenant,  and the two have been at odds   for many years. 9  Arctura is of the School of   Apromor, and she favors raiding''

==Involving the Player Covenant==

''The fire in the Town appears unnatural, and Fabianus informs the archdeacon of the Neighboring Covenant’s interference prior to the crisis. The archdeacon, in turn, complains to the Order and asks that they investigate the possible meddling.''
''A Quaesitorial Investigation''
''The default assumption is that House Guernicus assigns the junior Quaesitor Eutropia to look into the matter, and ask the player covenant to assist with their superior local knowledge. The magi are not suspects, but this is a delicate matter and helping to get to the bottom of it will defuse future accusations that political enemies might raise. The main task is to determine whether the disastrous events are completely natural, or show signs of supernatural interference. Eutropia is intended to provide abilities that the player magi lack, rather than taking the lead in the investigation. Given the nature of the investigation, she has been designed as an expert in examining supernatural effects and residues. If the player magi are fully competent in this area, instead use the basic Guernicus template in ArM5, page 26 for a more generally skilled Quaesitor. If the player characters are completely lacking in social skills, Eutropia could be redesigned to fill that role, although it would be harder to explain why she, in particular, was sent. Magi who are active in politics and follow the workings of the Order know in advance that the archdeacon is behind the complaint. The Quaesitores give the player characters notice before Eutropia arrives, and the schedule for the story has the player magi arrive in the Town between two and four months after the fire. On the other hand they may be very proactive and events may unfurl more quickly after the crisis, especially if the Town is a location in active use by the magi. The base magnitudes needed to sense magical effects may need adjustment if the schedule is very different from that envisaged.''
''Personal Motivations''
''Not all sagas have the same interpretation of the Order’s cohesiveness and the Quaesitores’ impartiality, in which case there may be no request for aid from House Guernicus, and perhaps not even a formal investigation. In this case, the storyguide should give the player magi personal reasons to get involved. Story and Personality Flaws are a good starting point, such as Mentor, Feud, Fostered Apprentice, or Tormenting Master. Another magus — likely from the Neighboring Covenant or the old and powerful covenant in the saga most likely to receive the archdeacon’s complaints — may ask the player magi to look into the matter of the fire in the Town. Covenant Hooks are another good entry point. If the Town happened to be a resource for vis, provisions, or income, player magi should feel even more motivated to act. They hear of the disaster early on and are likely to investigate without being asked. It is recommended they hear of the archdeacon’s concerns about Hermetic interference, relating to the recent de-silting of the harbor as well as the fire. However, forcing the players onto the defensive in this way is easily overdone. The focus here is on having the player magi proactively involve themselves in the matter, to give them an opportunity to gain resources and contacts if they work for it.''
''A Quaesitor Among Player Magi''
''If the player magi include a Quaesitor the simplest approach is to make this an official mission. Eutropia may be assigned to assist if her specialist skills would be useful, but she need not appear at all.''
''and piracy as a source of income.  Decarius is an elementalist and   seeks to improve the production  and commerce of his covenant. 12 Fabianus is believed to have local  knowledge and connections in the   player magi’s region. He is diplo  matic and often acts as mediator   between magi. Arctura and   Decarius once had a dispute over  covenant resources. Their conflict   caused disruption and destruction,  and as a result they were both   denied the resource and punished  under the charter of their covenant.   Eutropia was trained in a different   Tribunal. She is young and   inexperienced, specialized in   investigating supernatural events.   She is said to be ambitious for high   position among the Quaesitores. 18 Fabianus was trained in Holy   Magic, and he discreetly advocates   change within the Order, for which   he seeks supporters.''

==The Town==

''This settlement is a chartered town consisting of two distinct parts. To one side is the old town, with the market square, church, and other official buildings. Bordering this are the houses of the original population of fishermen and farmers with gardens and plots of farmland. To the other side are the new neighborhoods containing the workshops, offices, and storehouses of the growing town. This is where the fire started, in one of the blacksmith’s shops. The town has a Dominion rating of 2, higher inside the church and the graveyard. A charter from the presiding lord grants the town trading rights and the right to form a guild, and allows the senior masters of this to form a town council. This council effectively runs the town, plans the town’s growth, and arranges night patrols to watch for fires or theft. The direct as well as collateral damage of the fire is clearly visible. Although the fire was contained and stopped 3 or 4 months ago, there are still many poor, hungry, homeless, and desperate. As some workshops were destroyed, all trades involved in supplying those shops with raw materials or selling their finished product suffered as well. The livelihood of many families was destroyed, and the ensuing panic and rioting did not help the situation. The townfolk are''
''naturally wary of strangers and if not approached with caution they become withdrawn and uninformative, especially if subjected to Gifted individuals.''

==Aftermath==

''Following the fire, the town faced hunger and poverty, but within a fortnight the archdeacon made a visit outside his normal schedule, accompanied by some of his canons. One canon gave an extraordinary evening sermon of such excellent quality that the participating townspeople left with renewed faith in the Lord. The following morning builders working to restore damaged buildings found a granary thought empty to be filled with grain, and several warehouses filled with timber, metal ingots, and bolts of cloth. This verged on the miraculous and averted the looming hunger, provided materials to rebuild homes and businesses, and allowed craftsmen to produce goods and merchants to sell them. God’s grace favored these humble professionals, who toiled together with great success.''

==Thrice-Told Tales Observing the Inhabitants==

''When the townsfolk are first approached individuals are not very talkative and retreat to their fellows to form groups. A Perception + Folk Ken roll against an''
''Ease Factor of 9 reveals that the people fall into one of two categories. The larger group is positive and pious; they support each other but are initially reserved. Once they have spoken with other members from their group, individuals are more self assured and speak more freely to the visiting strangers. They are steadily rebuilding''
''the town’s businesses. The other, smaller, group is the opposite; they are gloomy, bicker and threaten each other, and almost fight amongst themselves. They all appear to be hiding something. Once player characters start asking around in various groups, rolls of Communication + appropriate social Ability''

==Quaesitor Eutropia of Guernicus==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +1, Com –2, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 32 (32) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Life-Linked Spontaneous Magic; Affinity with Intellego, Affinity with Vim, Hermetic Prestige*, Improved Characteristics, Minor Magical Focus (investigating supernatural residues), Puissant Intellego, Puissant Vim, Skilled Parens; Blatant Gift, Deficient Technique (Muto); Clumsy Magic, Deficient Form (Corpus), Legacy, Weak-Willed Personality Traits: Ambitious +6, Transitionalist +1, Assertive –2 Reputations: Promising Quaesitor 3 (Hermetic) Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Local Area 2 (geography), Artes Liberales 3 (ceremonial magic), Awareness 3 (searching), Charm 2 (being witty), Code of Hermes 4 (mundane relations), Concentration 2 (spells), Latin 4 (Hermetic), Magic Theory 5 (Vim), Native Language 5 (storytelling), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (politics), Parma Magica 2 (Mentem), Penetration 1 (Mentem), Philosophiae 3 (ceremonial magic) Arts: Cr 0, In 13+3, Mu 0, Pe 0, Re 7; An 0, Aq 0, Au 5, Co 0, He 0, Ig 0,''
''Im 0, Me 5, Te 0, Vi 13+3 Twilight Scars: None Equipment: Maga’s robes, exquisite dress, travel clothing Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Cloak of Duck’s Feathers ReAq 5/+8 Sailor’s Foretaste of the Morrow InAu 20/+22 Ward Against Rain ReAu 10/+13 The Call to Slumber ReMe 10/+13 Confusion of the Numbed Will ReMe 15/+13 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie InMe 20/+22 Odor of Lingering Magic InVi 30/+49F Impression of the Faded Sigil InVi 30/+49F Peering into the Mortal Mind InMe 30/+22 Sight of the Active Magics InVi 40/+33 Fincludes Focus Note: To detect supernatural effects of other realms than Magic Eutropia needs to cast spontaneously. Her focus covers detecting the residues and details of supernatural effects of any realm, not just Magic. Her highest possible casting total is: In (16)+Vi (16)+Focus (16)+Stm (1)+Voice and Gestures (2)+Ceremonial (8)=59 + a Stress Die, excluding aura modifiers. With her Life-Linked Spontaneous Magic, she can take it even further. Vis: 12 pawns of Vim vis in the form of silver spheres of crystal, carried in a pouch at her belt Appearance: Eutropia is slightly plump young woman with a nice smile, reddish brown straight hair, and gray eyes. Among mundanes she tries to fade into the background in hooded robes, but inevitably draws attention to herself as the cut and quality of her clothes set her apart from everyone.''
''Eutropia is a junior Quaesitor who was born in these parts but trained in a neighboring Tribunal. Her pater is a Quaesitor of significance back home, and so great things are expected of her. Intensively training by a true master has not only formed her into an impressive specialized investigator, but also left her highly ambitious and, unfortunately, with a bit of an inferiority complex. She asked to be assigned to a region away from her pater’s influence, where she could make her own name. She readily involves other magi in her plans to achieve greatness and is not beyond asking for help to cover the multitude of areas where her skills fail her. However, her impressive talent for investigating magical and other supernatural effects means she avoids the most routine Quaesitorial investigations, interrogations, and dry judicial matters. Europia sees the strange occurrences in the Town as a great opportunity to make her name, and is now giving this matter her full attention. She is loyal to the Order, wants to right wrongs, and to keep relations with the mundane world smooth. She will not casually break the Code, but her ambition may lead to her to justify bending the rules, at least to herself. She is accompanied by her trusty aide Michael on all her travels and investigations. He is socially skilled and a fount of knowledge on the Order and mundane organizations alike, and a vital mouthpiece for his Blatantly Gifted mistress. While Eutropia looks at evidence and magical traces, Michael puts questions to the mundanes, both as directed by the maga and on his own initiative. For character statistics, the Advisor from Grogs, page 88 is highly appropriate.''
''against an Ease Factor of 12 reveal more information, opinions, and witness accounts. Different abilities are appropriate depending on the situation: Charm generally makes people talkative, Carouse works well among the sinful people in the alehouse, Intrigue works for a more devious approach, a Profession is good for the relevant vocation, Leadership works if a characters takes charge or acts with authority, for example by hiring people or set up business. The townsfolk are naturally curious as to why the player characters are asking around, so apply a –3 to +3 modifiers depending on how appropriate their cover story is. Strangers who just happen to be passing through fall at the low end, while stories about future business and trade or references to previous visits give a bonus.''
''Pious and Successful Group''
''The pious individuals are almost all trained craftsmen, merchants, or other providers of professional services. Spirits are high among them, and they attribute it all to the grace of God. The turning point for their crisis was the visit from the archdeacon, and the lucky breaks they had following that with finding the resources unharmed by the fire. They humbly but readily tell stories about success of their fellow pious townsfolk, but are reluctant to talk about the responsibility of specific people for the fire, or about those who are not doing so well.''
''Sinful and Unsuccessful Group''
''Most of the sinful group is made up of seedier and suspicious-looking inhabitants working in taverns and brothels, or engaged in criminal activities. It also encompasses some of the dirtier and heavier crafts, especially those involving forges, kilns, or other fires. This includes bakers, potters, blacksmiths, and coincidentally a lot of unskilled workers employed as night watchmen by the guild. Reluctantly, they admit to not being avid churchgoers, and that they also did not attend the special service held while the archdeacon visited. The blacksmiths all accuse each other of responsibility for the fire, behind their neighbors’ backs. Some lay the blame on the night watchmen or the flawed fire response. A few people truly believe they have been cursed and hint that the visiting clergymen may have been praying to the wrong god. They all refuse to elaborate upon the matter if asked directly. If both groups are questioned and the specific facts of success and misfortune analyzed, it seems the sinners have suffered no higher frequency of bad luck than could be expected. A series of unfortunate events simply resulted in a situation all but impossible to turn around. However, the pious group shows skill at rebuilding beyond what anyone, including themselves, expect, and seem to have unnaturally good luck. In addition to this, they help each other, so that even the least skilled person eventually turns his misfortune around.''
''The Town Council''
''The council consists of the most influential and wealthy craft, service and trade masters leading their respective groups in the guild (see insert nearby). They are busy leading the rebuilding effort for their own business as well as planning the Town’s regrowth. They are harder to get access to than most other townsfolk, but the potential for bringing in new trade is a great incentive, and a clever cover story wins their time. The merchants, builders, and clothiers are part of the pious group, and their leaders''

==What Caused the Fire?==

''The fire was a completely natural tragedy, caused by a chain of events in which no single one involved bad intent or gross irresponsibility. See section ‘Observing the Inhabitants’ for further information about people and groups. Somehow all three of the blacksmiths’ actions affected the outcome. In Matheus’ workshop the embers and hot ashes had been put in an earthenware container at the end of the work day, but not removed. A cat belonging to Andreas chasing a mouse knocked the lid off. A draft from a window improperly shuttered by Lucas — because Andreas had not fixed it — blew an ember out of the pot. It landed in pile of straw that Matheus should have had swept up, but he was waiting until Lucas removed his crate. Here the flames grew until Lucas’ wooden crate caught fire, and the flames subsequently spread to the whole house. The unseasonably dry weather cause the fire to grow rapidly. As these details are not known until magic is used to investigate, the three neighboring blacksmiths do not know in which of their shops the fire started. But not all the blame lies with the''
''blacksmiths. The guild members acting as night watchmen underestimated their duties and responsibilities, and had insufficient manpower, discipline and knowledge to prevent this tragedy. The night patrols were forced to cut corners to cover the whole neighborhood, and as their first visit to the blacksmith’s shops at the end of the work day showed the forges properly put out they skipped their next rounds here. The third tier of blame lies with the town council, which is responsible for planning for emergencies. And in this they failed miserably. The pious group in the Town keep the facts secret because this series of unprofessional actions might jeopardize the trading rights granted by the town’s charter, which specifically states the responsibilities of the council. The sinful group, on the other hand, keep quiet for fear of being singled out as directly responsible for certain events and punished for them, especially since a lot of them were directly involved by being the proprietors of the workshops where the fire started, being on fire watch during the night, or taking part in the unsuccessful effort to stop the fire.''
''tell similar stories. However the smiths are at a low point, as the fire destroyed the neighborhood containing most of their members’ workshops. The rest of the council is putting pressure on the Master Smith to get his members cooperating rather than sowing discord. The Master Boatman has conflicting reports, since his members are split between the pious and sinful groups. Overall, the council is interested in working together to rebuild the Town, and to avoid the mistakes of the past.''

==The Town Church==

''The church itself is at least a century old and by no means impressive, but it is well kept. With the recent growth of the Town it is rapidly becoming too small. The lack of space further reduces the least pious inhabitants’ inclination to attend sermons. Otherwise, it is as churches should be, with a minor relic beneath the altar, creating a Dominion aura of 4 inside.''
''The Priest''
''The church in Town is run by the middle-aged priest Father Charles, a fair-minded, educated, and perceptive individual. He was asked in person by Archdeacon Petrus a few years ago to keep an eye on any unusual events, and to report directly to the archdeaconry should any happen. This did not seem at all odd to him, as the archdeacon is a senior cleric watching over his flock. When the harbor was suddenly found to be deeper than usual his suspicions were raised. After looking into the matter — superficially and with no special skills — he found no evidence of supernatural interference, and raised no alarm, although he did inform the archdeacon of this. He was also asked to keep a spare room to accommodate various clerics needing to rest a few days during a journey or to stay and study with him. With the recent boost in trade and travel activity, Father Charles is accustomed to strangers like the player''
''characters, although acting suspiciously earns his mistrust, and speaking with him consequently yields only superficial answers. He is not at all impressed by academics speaking Latin and quoting the Bible, although anyone he has seen attending his services is treated better. It is quite easy to get him talking, and he readily speaks about the recent crisis and the following rebuilding effort. He says that the fire was a dreadful accident and it is time to move forward, not dwell on the past and pass blame. Before he could even make a report to the bishop, the archdeacon, a few of his canons, and a novice arrived in town. One of the canons gave a heartfelt sermon, speaking of charity and the belief that God helps the pious overcome such horrible setbacks. This certainly lifted the spirits of the townspeople, and subsequently finding unharmed stores of grain, trade goods, and building materials made the effort to recover from the disaster possible. The archdeacon and his canons stayed in the spare room the priest keeps in his house, and they left for their home after only two days. If asked further about the spare room he''
''tells it has been used several times by a pious academic named Hugo, who is a friend of the archdeacon’s. Over the last year he has stayed there for a few days at a time once every three months, although not since the fire. As the Town is in disorder, the priest gladly offers the player characters his back room to stay in. He does so even if their number include Gifted persons, since it will distance them from his flock. The priest lives alone in a small house next to the church. He has no housekeeper; instead he is helped occasionally by volunteers from among his flock. The house has a front room with a hearth, a cot, and a chest for Charles’ belongings. The back room is what he grandiosely calls his study. It is merely a cramped room with a small desk and a chest of books, plus some floor space for sleeping pallets. His letters are all on administrative matters, and the chest holds the church missal, a Bible, and a poor quality Latin learning aid. The characters may want to search the room to see whether the archdeacon and canons left any evidence. Such a search reveals a torn piece of parchment slipped down behind the desk. It is a fragment of letter in''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Alternative Crises==

''If another crisis fits better into the saga and setting the storyguide needs to customize the investigation to accommodate this. In any case the story is the same: Mistakes were made and the townsfolk try to cover it up. A few examples are given below. A plague is traced to the first house affected, witnesses tell a story of a mundane tragedy, and survivors show no traces of supernatural effects. Medicine is the appropriate Ability to use for a mundane investigation. A flood or landslide shows no signs of supernatural effects at the collapsed hill or the river which overflowed. Witnesses tell of heavy rains causing the natural disaster, and although investigating a weather effect poses difficulties due to the long range to the clouds, nothing suspicious is found here either. Appropriate Abilities in''
''clude Survival or Profession: Engineer. A hard winter affected more than just this settlement, and the surrounding countryside needs to be visited as well. Weather phenomena are particularly hard to investigate, and so should be used if the players are likely to take their results at face value and bring the investigation to a close too quickly. Warfare or bandits are a bit different, as this crisis is obviously not due to innocent mistakes. While the dead have been buried with church rites, any captured or injured combatants can be interrogated by mundane and magical means. The warfare may have arisen from a typical noble dispute, but in any case investigation finds no evidence of magical influence on the main parties, nor of magical help for either side.''

|}
''an unknown hand describing, almost to the word, the conversation between Eutropia and the senior Quaesitor who gave her this task. It features neither sender’s name nor a seal, but the recipient is the Archdeacon Petrus. The letter is over one month old, and so no longer viable as an Arcane Connection.''
''A Traitor in the Order?''
''If the letter is discovered, Eutropia is alarmed, since this information was known to only those two magi of House Guernicus, and there are only three other magi who could reasonably have found out. She was inside the Neighboring Covenant in a secluded building watched by her grog while conducting her investigation, and speaking with the three magi Arctura, Decarius, and Fabianus when her superior arrived unannounced. She stepped into a separate room and only someone invisible or who scryed on the room could have heard the conversation. This is illegal under the Code of Hermes, and the Quaesitores are especially opposed to scrying on their organization. Furthermore, keeping the archdeacon so well informed of Hermetic matters is no trivial matter either, as''
''there is a great risk of further complaints from the church whenever magic is or could be the cause of anything believed to be unnatural. Eutropia urges caution, since this unknown informer may intercept messages and relay information to the archdeacon. She would rather discreetly gather evidence and positively identify the traitor before going public. Charging in and questioning under Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie is ill-advised as not only does it risk antagonizing the three suspects, it may tip off the traitor if they do not question him first. It is entirely possible that the characters do not discover the letter, or do not show it to Eutropia. If she never sees the letter, its significance is likely to remain unknown, and Fabianus’ plans most likely move unhindered to the next stage. This is not a problem for the later stories.''

==Reporting to the Archdeacon==

''At the end of the Quaesitorial investigation the logical conclusion is that no''
''Hermetic magi are responsible for the fire. Eutropia must report at first to her Guernicus superior, and subsequently to the archdeacon in his church, at his insistence. If the player magi were involved, she asks them to attend and confirm her testimony. If the player characters were not involved, move directly to Part III: Tribunal; nothing of significance happens until then. The archdeacon resides and hold office in the Urban Church in the City, alongside a chapter of canons. This section details how the report is received, and further details of the City and the Urban Church are given later. The Urban Church is linked to the ongoing stories in several ways, and the player magi may choose to visit for a number of reasons. As the investigation was prompted by the Archdeacon’s formal complaint, player magi may visit him before ever investigating the Town. This does not cause serious problems, although the mystics may be encountered before their work in the Town has been investigated. Bear in mind that they seem no different from the other canons, except that they have fewer regular duties at the church. The mystics conduct all business related to Fabianus, magic, and Holy effects while secluded in the crypt. Edward’s Gift is only noticed by characters without Parma Magica. Edward uses it himself to cover any mystic he is currently working with, and normally keeps his distance from other church employees, so very few people notice his Gift and act upon it. The mystics’ duties keep them inside the crypt studying or performing minor clerical church duties away from most visitors. Player magi investigating in depth can even find out that Hugo (as he is known here) is cooperating with the holy mystics before they ever suspect a traitor in the Order. But it is unlikely they realize Hugo is actually Fabianus until they find the sanctum, as Fabianus is a fairly obscure magus, and he uses magical disguises. The main consequences of investigating the Urban Church early are that the first two stories of the Sequel might blend together. Once the Town has been visited and the priest spoken with, there are more''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==The Guild==

''The professionals in the Town have formed a single guild, led by masters from various vocational groups encompassing several related types of crafts and professions. Highly specialized guilds for each and every craft is not common until much later than 1220, and also only seen in larger settlements.''
''The Master Farmer is Roger, a 54-yearold greedy miller who represents all people involved in growing and processing food The Master Merchant is Peter, a 60-yearold charitable cloth merchant, who also represents all other merchants The Master Builder is Simon, a 38-yearold pragmatic carpenter He attended a cathedral school in his youth, and is literate. He represents carpen''
''ters, masons and other builders The Master Smith is Anton, a 41-yearold soft hearted bear of a man, who represents blacksmiths and those working in rare metals alike, as well as potters, glassblowers, and anyone else using fires. The acting Master Clothier is Elizabeth the Fair, a 32-year-old widow running her aging father’s dyeing business as he is too infirm to do so, at least until he is replaced. She represents weavers, dyers, tailors, and recently, with reluctance, also leather workers and tanners. The Master Boatman is George, a 48-year-old drunkard representing boatmen, dockworkers, boat builders, and fishermen''

|}
''leads to draw attention to the Archdeacon’s church, because of the regular visits from Hugo.''

==The Report==

''The actual report is little more than a formality to appease the archdeacon and show him his complaints were taken seriously. Eutropia truthfully reports what she knows, probably that no Hermetic interference caused the fire, but that prior events in which the harbor was dug deeper were. The archdeacon has no concern with the harbor, as no harm was done and any unbalancing effects it may have had resulted in growth. A growing population usually strengthens the Dominion, so he is happy with this outcome. If he is told of the Divine effects helping the recovery, he is pleased, and reminds that characters that God is always watching over his servants. Eutropia, however, does not volunteer this information.''

==Petrus the Archdeacon==

''Should the magi want to speak with Petrus the archdeacon, he agrees, but takes the opportunity to reprimand them for not using their magic to avert or alleviate the crisis in the Town. If asked about his canons and the sermons, he honestly believes it was simply a well meant prayer performed by one of his canons, accompanied by a complex ceremony his people had taught him. If the miraculous effects are mentioned he merely states that God does what God wills, dismissing the idea that he performed them as almost blasphemous. Subtle questions about the letter found in the Town lead nowhere, as he sends and receives many letters each week and genuinely has no idea what the characters are getting at. If they unwisely confront him with knowledge of his informant in the Order he refuses to comment, and considers their conversation over. The use of scrying magic or mental domination is not recommended (and Eutropia will argue against it if the characters''
''mention the idea to her), nor is it easy due to the archdeacon’s Magic Resistance, and the high Dominion aura of the church. However, if successful, his mind reveals the name “The Servants of God” for his organization, and its plans in motion, and identifies his source inside the Order as Hugo, complete with a physical description. This is actually Fabianus’ natural appearance, but he is a reclusive magus and uses magical disguises during his rare visits with Hermetics. If the characters ask Petrus about the Servants of God, he is puzzled they know about this, but says “Aren’t we all servants of God?” He says that this is the name used by him and his closest clergy in their efforts to help humanity above and beyond their formal duties within the church. If asked about Hugo he replies that he is an acquaintance of his, a pious academic who visits occasionally. Reading Petrus’ mind reveals the existence of the sanctum below the church and the ongoing plans to induct a new generation of holy magi into the Order. The archdeacon does not know about the Parma Magica affair. If asked why he thought the fire was of magical origin he answers simply that strange things were happening, such as''
''the harbor suddenly becoming deeper, and such a horrendous fire happening despite the night watch and contingency plans did not seem natural. After the meeting Eutropia says that Michael followed the archdeacon away from the meeting, and overheard him telling his scribe that he should await a report from their informant in the Order. If the letter was found in the Town, Eutropia ordered Michael to do this; otherwise he acted on his own initiative. Without the letter, there is no proof that the informant has broken the Code, but the matter is still very suspicious, and motivates Eutropia’s next actions.''

==Investigation Concluded==

''As the investigation is concluded life resumes its normal course. However, the player magi and their young Quaesitor ally know of a zealous archdeacon and his Hermetic informer, just waiting for an incident to complain about.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Father Charles==

''Characteristics: Int +1 (1), Per +2 (2), Pre +1, Com +2 (2), Str 0, Sta 0, Dex –1 (1), Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 45 (45) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Inspirational, Social Contacts (Archdeacon); Compassionate (minor), Motion Sickness, Vow (celibacy) Personality Traits: Compassionate +3, Pious +2, Talkative +2, Loyal +1 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10),''
''–5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Town 5 (history), Artes Liberales 2 (rhetoric), Awareness 3 (noticing changes), Charm 3 (church goers), Etiquette 3 (Church), Folk Ken 5 (people he knows well), Latin 5 (the Bible), Leadership 4 (preaching), Local Language 5 (preaching), Music 3 (sing), Organization Lore: Church 4 (local diocese), Profession: Herbalism 4 (treating fever), Ride 2 (distance), Teaching 1 (religious subjects), Theology 4 (debate) Equipment: Priest’s garb, leather apron for gardening Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Charles is a tall, thin man — almost lanky. His ever-youthful looks have only recently been marred by crow’s feet at his eyes and thinning, graying hair.''

|}

==Interlude: Silence Follows Thunder==

''Unless the player magi have found the Servants of God and Fabianus’ sanctum below the Urban Church, there should be no leads left to investigate, until the archdeacon’s informant in the Order does something to tip his hand. Nothing overt happens for three to six seasons. The exact amount of time before the next event depends on the pace of the saga, but it needs to be enough for the development of Fabianus’ plot. The player magi have some time to prepare for things to come. Given the nature of the opposition, many reasonable actions would be controversial if other magi or the church discovered them, for instance inventing Might-stripping spells for Divine creatures, or spying on the archdeacon. Keeping watch on the Town or the''
''Urban Church, or actively helping or even hindering the rebuilding effort also come to mind. If the magi draw attention to themselves, the archdeacon complains to the Quaesitores again, which starts another investigation, and possibly a case if the characters have arguably broken the Code. If necessary, remind the players that the archdeacon has a history of complaining to the Order, and being taken seriously.''

==The Clue, the Bait, and the Trap==

''The clue leading to the next stage of the story is discovered by magi monitoring the church in the Town. There are good reasons for the player characters to do this, but if they do not, Eutropia does, and draws the characters in. As noted earlier, if the characters are ignoring the town and have alienated Eutropia, they are not involved in this stage of the story, only being drawn in at the''
''Tribunal to deal with the aftermath. After some time a novice arrives from the Urban Church to stay a season at a time to observe the Town’s priest in action. He brings along a locked chest containing Fabianus’ book on Parma Magica. The priest is informed by a letter from the archdeacon that the novice has a great gift from the Divine, which might be unsettling unless he accepts a short prayer and laying on of hands from the novice each day until he is used to it. This novice is Edward, who is the apprentice under Fabianus’ formal tutelage and therefore Gifted. His sharing of Parma Magica deliberately includes an innocent prayer; he need only touch the willing priest to share it. Fabianus intends this to be a test, to see how it works to have the Gifted student share it with a teacher who is not used to such things. The priest willingly accepts this arrangement as he trusts the archdeacon and the “prayer” alleviates the feelings of unease about the novice. Edward does not avoid all interactions with the residents of the Town, and any visitor may hear of the creepy visiting novice. Even the old priest is heard remarking that the boy sometimes gives him eerie feelings of unease. If asked in more detail he confides in trustworthy individuals that, had it not been for the novice’s daily prayer to ease his mind, the youngster would have been sent packing long ago. Player characters who meet Edward feel the same unease, unless they are protected by the Parma Magica. Any magus is likely to suspect that the boy is Gifted, and briefly suppressing one’s own Parma is an easy way to confirm that. The boy spends his free time reading books he keeps safely locked inside the chest sent by the archdeacon. (Note that seasonal activities are an abstraction for ease of play, clearly seen when a professional works two seasons and has the other two free for personal endeavors. It is perfectly feasible for Edward to be trained intermittently by the priest as his duties allow and to read the book during free time over the course of two seasons, in order to use the standard progression rules. Inside the chest is a book on the subject of Parma Magica, anonymous but''
''written by Fabianus. The book is simply called Hermes’ Parma Magica and is a Summa with level 3 and Quality 12. The materials and workmanship of the book are quite professional, as seen in books used by magi, academics, and clergy alike. However, the illustrations have a decidedly religious theme. Anyone with even cursory knowledge of the Church or the Divine recognizes this, even if they have no score in the Abilities. There are several ways in which this book can lead investigators further down the plot line. The point is to show that a Hermetic magus is acting irresponsibly with the secrets of Parma Magica — most likely the archdeacon’s informer. While a book can function as an Arcane Connection to the author this connection only lasts a few weeks, and this book was written longer ago than this. However, a tiny speck of human blood can be noticed on one page, or found with an Intellego Vim spell to detect active Arcane Connections. Identifying the speck as blood is an Intellego Corpus base level 4 spell, but using the connection to track the owner requires a relevant Intellego spell of Range: Arcane. Note the shortcut of first casting Opening the Intangible Tunnel so the follow up Intellego spells only needs to be R: Touch (as described in Hermetic Projects, pages 78 and 84). The blood is from Julius, an illuminator from the Urban Church in the City, who cut himself while sharpening a quill as he was illustrating the book for Fabianus. This Arcane Connection leads the magi to the Urban Church in the City, and ultimately to the holy mystics. While a book on Parma Magica by itself is not a crime, it is highly suspicious if found outside the protection of a covenant or sanctum. As described in Apprentices, a magus can teach Parma Magica but omit the vital key needed to actually use it. This means that a book that does not contain the key, and this one does not, should not create the risk of the Parma Magica being learned outside the Order. Even though this is a safeguard against abuse, Fabianus could be accused of irresponsibility. Edward’s knowledge and attitude to magi are described in his stat block, found later. The magi may be able to''

==Magical Investigation==

''Intellego magic such as Tales of the Ashes InIg5 (ArM5, page 141) used in the blacksmith’s shop shows how the fire started, revealing it as a non-supernatural event. Uncovering the series of unfortunate events described in the earlier insert What is Really Happening would need several spells, and some luck. Speaking with inanimate objects is tedious and difficult to pull off with spontaneous magic, and investigators need to find a relatively unharmed object to communicate with. The cat and mouse involved make excellent witnesses (as far as their limited intelligence allows) but finding these exact animals is like finding the needle in the proverbial haystack. They are still in the area, but many rats and mice roam the ruins since there are scraps of food to find and places to hide, which bring in cats hunting them. For more detail the magi need spells more powerful and specific than this, especially if they want to check for any supernatural effects in other locations than the ruins of the smithies. Intellego Vim spells (ArM5, page 158–159 and Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, pages 71 and 75) reveal supernatural effects, as well as details depending if the spell is powerful enough.''
''• While still blessed, the townspeople are affected by an ongoing, powerful non-Hermetic and Divine effect of 13th magnitude, detectable with a Base 1 Intellego Vim spell. This effect causes Warping due to being a powerful as well as a continuous supernatural effect. The citizens of the town gained 1 Warping point when it was cast, as well as 1 per season and 1 per full year affected. The Duration (Fast) is unlikely to last more than a month, and definitively no more than a single season. Once the effect is over — when the casting mystic ends his fast — the residue drops to half magnitude. As Duration: Fast is equivalent to Moon, the residue decays a further magnitude with each passing month. This means that the residue reaches magnitude 0 seven months after the mystic stops fasting, giving ample time for investigating magi to discern it.''
''• In the granary and warehouses where goods had miraculously survived the fire, those searching find traces of non-Hermetic Divine effects of 6th or 9th magnitude respectively, no longer active. At the end of the power’s duration the effective magnitude is halved and drops by 1 for each round passing until it reaches 0. Further decay is at 1 magnitude per year which passes. The Duration of Momentary causes the effects to decay to magnitude 0 in mere moments, decaying a further magnitude per year until reaching –10, as they are the equivalent of a Ritual. As the player magi are likely to investigate within a year of being asked, the residue is probably magnitude 0. A Base 10 InVi guideline is needed to sense the traces at all. Taste is the lowest possible Target, but requires the material investigated to be put in the mouth. A Duration longer than Momentary would also be beneficial. • The harbor was dug deeper about two years prior to these events by Decarius using Pit of Gaping Earth, a Duration: Momentary spell that has now degraded to magnitude –2. This requires a Base 20 InVi. Even though Eutropia can examine the sigil of a cast spell, Impression of the Faded Sigil only works on positive magnitudes, and as she does not yet know Restore the Faded Threads, she would need a 5th magnitude spontaneous Creo Vim spell to make the sigil visible. As this is not covered by her focus, she does not even try.''
''Note that spells detect effects from a particular realm. Eutropia is not custom made for this purpose, and as her spells sense Magic effects, she needs to spontaneously cast versions to detect the Divine. Her theoretical casting total is calculated in her stats found earlier. A further two magnitudes added to the guidelines listed reveals details of what the effects did. Most Hermetic magi know nothing of holy magic so they learn no details about Methods, Powers or the special divine Duration of the effects. The holy effects are detailed in the nearby insert.''
''learn that “Hugo” is behind the affair, and in fact a magus, but Edward genuinely does not know where Hugo is at this time. Characters can also simply watch Edward, and see to whom he talks on his return to the Urban Church. Father Charles does not believe he is in any way involved in a plot and answers most questions willingly. Using magic on him reveals no more. The book itself could be used as bait to set a trap. Even if the priest is not in the know, if the characters make sure he hears rumors of people interested in the locked chest, the information is passed on to the archdeacon, and then Fabianus. This leads Fabianus to feel that it is too risky to have the book out of his control, and send a church servant to pick up the book and bring it to his sanctum, unwittingly leading observers there as well.''

==Story II: The Urban Church==

''In the City there is a large, old church, where the archdeacon holds his canon court when he is not on the road, a responsibility delegated to him by the bishop. It also hosts a chapter of canons, three of whom are holy mystics working with Fabianus. The church is detailed in the nearby insert; it has a Dominion aura of 5 inside, while the church grounds and city streets have an aura of 3. As long as the sounds of mass can be heard the aura is 1 higher, and as masses are a source of income for the church this may occur at any hour of the day. The church is open to all during the day, and it is always teeming with activity as minor clergy perform masses for the dead at the many secondary altars. The crypt below the church is closed by a locked door and watched over by burly churchwardens who always seem to be close by. Several more wardens patrol the buildings and grounds to prevent theft of church property. If they feel they might be getting in over their heads they fetch''

==The Divine Effects==

''The Divine effects performed by the three holy mystics in the Town are described in this insert, and further details can be found in Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, chapter 3. These special parameters are available to Hermetics using Holy Magic as well as mystics using Divine Powers. Hermetic magic normally requires a parameter like Duration: Year to be a Ritual, but the Divine miracles do not; they merely add the required number of magnitudes. The special Duration: Fast for Divine effects lasts as long as the caster fasts according to his faith. It is equivalent to Moon, but may last longer. Casting Total equals Characteristic + Method + Power + Aura and only needs to equal the adjusted level of effect to succeed. Holy mystics need not learn or invent specific effects in advance as Hermetic magi do for spells. When cast using leaderless Ceremony, add the Characteristic + Method of further participants, as well as group modifiers equal to the sum of all Ceremony scores minus the number of participants. All three holy mystics use the Method Invocation, which uses the characteristic Communication, and each one knows a different Power. All mystics, the archdeacon, and Edward the apprentice have positive Communication, and know Ceremony with a specialization in Invocation. If performing the effects in a normal urban Dominion aura of 2 to 3 their Casting Total reaches 60 plus a stress die. Note that Invocation requires the expenditure of a Confidence point by the main caster, but it is not unreasonable to assume that they earn new Confidence from using their powers successfully for good. The four Divine effects used are as follows.''
''Let he who serves the LORD be guarded by an angel (Invocation, Adjuration, Level 30) R: Voice, D: Grace, T: Ind Theologians say that every person has a guardian angel, though few can sense it and even fewer notice any intervention from it. This effect petitions a guardian angel to protect a target, effectively granting the Virtue of the same name from ArM5, page 43, although the''
''angel may choose to intervene more directly as well. This effect needs to Penetrate the Angel’s Magic Resistance in order to work. See Zurfiel, the Guardian Angel of Fabianus, for an example of such a creature. (Base 4, +2 Voice, +4 Grace)''
''The LORD blesses those who are faithful (Invocation, Blessing, Level 65) R: Touch, D: Fast, T: Room This blessing, performed as part of a church service, results in a +3 bonus to virtuous tasks for all those inside the church who truly worship God. In this situation, virtuous tasks are concerned with surviving, rebuilding the Town after the disaster, and helping to do good. This affects a church holding up to 1000 people, provided it is not divided into separate sections. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +3 Fast, +2 Room +1 Size)''
''Let the LORD fill the granary (Invocation, Wonders, Level 30) R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual equivalent effect This wondrous effect can create an amount of grain in excess of 5 tonnes, but the caster can voluntarily limit the effect to a smaller amount. Although equivalent to a Hermetic momentary Ritual, holy effects cannot be Rituals and simply add four magnitudes to the final level. (Base 3; +1 Touch, +2 Group, +4 for permanent effect)''
''Let the LORD fill the timber storage (Invocation, Wonders, Level 45) R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group, Ritual equivalent effect This wondrous effect creates up to 100 cubic paces of processed and prepared timber. Similar effects could create bolts of cloth totaling 10 cubic paces or iron ingots totaling 100 cubic feet. (Base 5; +1 Touch, +2 Group, +1 size +4 for permanent effect)''
''one of the canons to ask for guidance, or call out for help. Refer to the nearby insert for basic statistics. To one side of the church is an enclosed garden, between the scriptorium and accommodation for the archdeacon and the other clergymen. Both buildings have doors from the church and garden. The wall is just over man-height and easily scalable, and the gate to the garden is never locked or barred. Infiltrating the crypt is not straightforward, but it is by no means impossible for skilled specialists and clever magi. No one in the church is aware of guarding the crypt, but their duties have been arranged to take them past strategic locations frequently — like entrances to the church and the stairs to the crypt. They are, of course, aware of the risk of theft and vandalism to other locations, even though it is not a major problem. A violent assault on the church would almost certainly succeed, although the relatively high Dominion aura could reduce the effectiveness of magic, but the fact that violence against the church is seriously frowned upon if not outright illegal in the Order’s view should deter most characters from such extreme measures.''

==The Crypt and Sanctum==

''If the characters observe the church for some time, there are strong signs that there is something special about the crypt. Churchwardens often pass near the entrance while keeping watch, and priests perform mass more often at the altars near the stairs down. Provisions are taken down and waste is removed at least once per day. When the church is relatively quiet, Edward can be seen entering or leaving the crypt so as to not draw attention to his Gift. The canons Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael only participate in the other canons’ duties on special occasions. Finally, Julius the Illuminator refers to a library for special books down there. The locked door leads down to a surprisingly small crypt with a much larger lower level. On the top level a dark alcove conceals a door marked with a''
''sanctum marker and the names Hugo and Fabianus ex Miscellanea. As the door bears the name “Hugo,” none of the mystics give it a second thought. Beyond the door is another flight of stairs, leading to a large communal chamber, well lit and heavy with the scent of incense. One corner holds bookcases and book stands, and there are doors to the private bedchambers of the holy mystics and the Apprentice. One chamber holds Fabianus’ cramped and rudimentary Hermetic lab. Unless the characters observe the mystics and Edward, and carefully choose a time when they all have business outside the crypt, at least one of them is present. Fabianus is not here, but there is ample evidence of his presence in the form of the name on the sanctum marker, correspondence, books, and items naming him as owner. The mystics do not read Hugo’s correspondence, and are not really aware of the name “Fabianus.” Even characters who examine the correspondence may initially assume that Hugo and Fabianus are separate individuals, but thorough investigation shows that they must be''
''the same person. Fabianus has not spent much time here recently, so the duration of months for the kinds of Arcane Connections casually left behind — like single strands of hair, favored tools, or books written — have all expired. The holy mystics disapprove of the intruders but use no more than stern words to convince them to leave, claiming the right of privacy in church property, because there is no chance that the characters entered by accident. If seriously threatened, the mystics surrender and ask to be admitted to the Order of Hermes and judged by a Tribunal. If violence erupts they have no offensive powers, but their summoned and contracted Guardian Angels intervene to protect them. Use the statistics for Zurfiel found later. While the angels put up a fight there is nothing else to prevent the magi from fighting and killing the mystics, except maybe their consciences or a fear of being Marched. The death of three canons of a large church does not go unnoticed, even if their bodies are never found. Archdeacon Petrus suspects the Order if there is''
''any hint of strangeness, such as the bodies going missing. See section about Legal Matters later.''

==The Holy Mystics==

''The mystics tell a story of having known through the early years of their ecclesiastical careers that they had power beyond their mundane brethren, or at least the potential for it. When they''
''were assigned to the same chapter of canons, they started working together to develop these abilities. It was only later that they realized they were deliberately brought together by Hugo. They met Hugo shortly after they started working together, and he told them of the origins of their supernatural powers among the Servants of God. He provided teachings and texts from the old tradition to further their training, and taught them about the existence of The Gift and the magi of the Order of Hermes. They be''
''lieve that magi have much power, and the potential to use it for good if guided toward the right path. Hugo reformed the Servants of God and started working closely with the archdeacon in order to provide this guidance. The mystics’ duties involve helping the pious in times of crisis, both out of charity and to test the Order’s response. Any negative interference from magi leads to formal complaints, while positive activities show who might be ready to cooperate. Hugo shows that''

==Archdeacon Petrus==

''Characteristics: Int +3 (3), Per –2, Pre –1, Com +3 (3), Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik –1 (1) Size: 0 Age: 50 (50) Decrepitude: 1 (2) Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Senior Clergy; Wealthy; Ceremony, Educated, Guardian Angel, Relic, Strong Willed, Temporal Influence; Dependent (Servants of God), Pious; Higher Purpose (Reconcile Order of Hermes with society), Obese, Palsied Hands, Arthritis Personality Traits: Pious +6, Meddlesome +3, Proud +1 Reputations: Worker of wonders 3 (Ecclesiastical) Combat: Dodge: Init –3, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +5 (Guardian Angel) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Diocese 4 (churches), Artes Liberales 5 (debate), Brawl 2 (dodge), Ceremony 4 (Invocation), Charm 5 (debate), Civil and Canon Law 5 (ordination), Concentration 4 (Ceremony), Dominion Lore 2 (saints), Folk Ken 6 (magi), Guile 5 (debate), Intrigue 6 (debate), Latin 5 (preaching), Leadership 4 (debate), Local Language 5 (arguing), Music 2 (composing), Organization Lore:''
''Church 4 (ordination), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (personalities), Teaching 2 (Latin), Theology 5 (Biblical knowledge) Powers: Magic Resistance 25. The Archdeacon has a Magic Resistance of 25 granted by the Divine Realm, from a combination of an angel (as per the Virtue Guardian Angel) — summoned and bound by the holy mystics — and a piece of the True Cross (as per the Virtue Relic). Remember to modify the Resistance by the Dominion aura, and to subtract three times the aura from the casting totals of magic effects. Equipment: Archdeacon’s vestments Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Petrus is a fat, balding man with a mouthful of bad teeth. But with a straight back, fierce eyes, and a firm voice, he is still an imposing man, especially clad in his clerical robes and backed up by his aides.''
''The Archdeacon Petrus is not designed as a player character, and his Virtues and Flaws do not balance. His relic and guardian angel are the results of his achievements within the church and with the Servants of God. In Petrus’ youth he often assisted his bishop in the consecration of new churches following mundane expansion into the wild, and traveled the lands a great deal. During one of these ventures he angered woodland faeries by trying to banish them with prayers, but it opened his mind to the existence of other realms. His moves up the career ladder were due''
''solely to his personal skills and influence; he did not meet Hugo until he was already archdeacon, although the magus led Petrus to include the holy mystics in his chapter of canons. Archdeacon Petrus knows of the Order of Hermes, and that the magi are not all heretics and diabolists, being like most of humanity with elements of both good and bad. But just as he feels his own position gives him great responsibilities to help humankind, so too does the great power of the magi. He despises magi using power for their own gain, especially when it is at the cost of innocent mundanes. Hugo led him to believe the crisis of the great fire on the Town was caused by meddling magi, and that this was an opening to approach the Order and let them know they are being watched. His great wish is for the Order of Hermes to seek to harmonize their magic with the Dominion, and he will do his part to further their acceptance among the church and the mundanes. At first he will work only behind the scenes, but in time, as magi convert to holy magic, he intends to step into the open, hoping he will have been elevated in clerical rank to hold more political power among nobles and the church both. He feels personally responsible for the entire organization of the Servants of God, which is still growing in numbers as well as power. While he readily uses connections to the bishop as deterrent he has no real power to mobilize him, and the bishop does not appear in these stories. The storyguide may choose to include the bishop if this fits her saga and play style better, but it is beyond the scope of this book.''
''the Dominion is compatible with Hermetic magic through the use of Holy Magic, and is working on a way of further combining Holy Methods and Powers with this. While unGifted themselves, the holy mystics found a Gifted candidate among the misfits and orphans sent into to the care and schooling of the church. Hugo opened the apprentice’s Hermetic Arts, attuning him to Holy Magic from the beginning rather than teaching him standard Hermetic magic. In the long term, the plan is to use Contemplative Mysticism to teach him Ceremony, the Invocation Method, and at least one Power. The mystics teach the Divine Abilities, and in practice the mystics do most of the teaching, with Hermetic Arts being covered by the books and Hugo’s teachings. The goal is to ensure that future generations of Hermetic Holy Magi are skilled as holy mystics as well. Both Edward and the mystics report that Hugo insisted that Edward learn the Parma Magica to protect himself against the evils of the world, and to protect the mystics from the effects of his Gift.''
''They willingly surrender the tome on Parma Magica to the Quaesitores, and truthfully say the did not know how important these secrets are nor how controversial Fabianus’ actions are in the eyes of the Order. If the visit to the crypt does not end with diplomatic solution with the mystics, and they still survive, they go to the Tribunal’s senior Quaesitor soon after to tell their story. They hand over the Parma Magica book if it is still in their hands, and ask the Order to accept them. As they are unGifted, they would not normally be considered, but their supernatural abilities, knowledge of the Order, and position in the Church mean that their petition cannot easily be dimissed. The player magi hear of this soon after as the Order debates the best course of action. Even if they had no part in the mystics’ petition to join, the player magi still have ample opportunity to work for or against their assimilation in the political arena. The details of such a debate are highly saga-dependent, and so are not laid out here.''

==Resolution and Legal Matters==

''If the investigation of the crypt drew unwanted attention, or caused material damage or bodily harm, the Order soon after faces an enraged archdeacon. He demands justice, penance by the guilty parties, and stricter enforcement of the rules to ensure that this does not happen again. He hints it is within his power to suggest to the bishop here and in other dioceses to enforce a hard line against magic. Such a situation would certainly count as “bringing ruin on my sodales.” The Order will certainly investigate, and if the player characters can be shown to be responsible, they will be punished at Tribunal. The archdeacon is careful to ask that they be given the chance to make good the damage they have done, rather than being Marched, but has less influence over the course of Hermetic justice than he thinks. If they are Marched, the archdeacon offers them sanctuary, in return for their support;''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Clerical Personnel==

''A single specific person as well as some general personnel are briefly described here, with only their key statistics listed. The clergy live on the church grounds, and their business occasionally takes them away from the site. The wardens, on the other hand, all live off site, and can be spoken to elsewhere, with fewer prying eyes and a less detrimental aura.''
''Julius the Illuminator''
''Player characters coming to the church asking questions about books are sent Julius’ way. He is a jolly dwarf of a clergyman employed as scribe and illuminator for the church. His Personality Traits are Happy +3, Pious +2, Naive +2. If the storyguide uses the clue with a drop of blood from the book on Parma Magica, the Arcane Connection leads to him. He happily prattles on and on to learned visitors about books on academic or church-related subjects, and''
''if asked indirectly about ‘special books’ he counters by asking them to be more specific. If the player characters ever mention Hermetic or “magic” books, or something similar, Julius gladly tells them that he has no current such projects but that the books he finished were all taken by the canon Raphael, who handles the books for the downstairs library. Julius has never been there but he knows that the entrance is down though the crypt. He does not mention Hugo casually, but this information is revealed after a successful Com + appropriate social Ability roll against an Ease Factor of 12. Mentem magic may reveal all his secret knowledge: Julius has illuminated the Parma Magica book, as well as the non-Hermetic books on holy Methods, Powers, and Abilities (see the library description found later). However, he cannot distinguish between them as they are all simply ‘special books’ to him. In his eyes, Hugo is some kind of holy mystic, and he suspects that the same is true of several of the canons. He sees this as nothing''
''sinister, only very interesting and best kept from outsiders.''
''Churchwardens''
''These men are employed by the church to keep order and prevent intruders and thieves. They are hired for their brawn rather than any other qualities, and they are quite loyal to the church as an employer but not terribly pious.''
''Characteristics: Int –1, Per 0, Pre –1, Com –1, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik 0 Personality Traits: Loyal +3 Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Bludgeon: Init 0, Attack +8 Defense +5, Damage +4 Soak: +4 Equipment: Bludgeon, quilted hauberk.''

|}
''this possibility is touched on later. In any event, these matters are raised at Tribunal, which must also deal with Fabianus and the mystics themselves, if they have survived.''

==Staying in the Shadows==

''The player characters may choose to keep the secret for Fabianus. If the Quaesitors are not pursuing Fabianus, for whatever reason, he continues to develop his plans. Fabianus has time to fully train Edward and the premature teaching of Parma Magica avoids detection. Fabi''
''anus and the archdeacon continue to monitor any supernatural meddling in the Town, and may ask for investigations of future events. Fabianus tries to remain inconspicuous for as long as he can, acting behind the scenes to affect his sodales and keep the archdeacon informed. Once the mystics are discovered or choose to reveal themselves he finally shows his true colors in order to support them. Once Edward has finished his training, Fabianus introduces him while forming the Order’s first Holy covenant, hoping it can contribute to the changes he desires. The mystics are unGifted and most likely can’t join the Order, but in fact do not need to. They can work just as well as specialist covenfolk in the new Servants of God covenant. Much political turmoil is avoided this way, with no magi knowing Fabianus broke the rules of Parma Magica, and no attempt to bring unGifted non-Hermetic mystics into the Order. This is the way Fabianus intended his plans to unfurl, to quietly ease the practice of Holy Methods and Powers inside the Order.''

==Interlude: Preparation for Tribunal==

''The time until the Tribunal where the cases are heard and resolved depends on the year in which the events happen. These matters do not warrant a special emergency Tribunal, so there may be up to seven years to wait. The time passing between discovering Fabianus’ plans with the Servants of God and the Tribunal can be used by player magi to build support for one side or the other. The two feuding magi, Arctura and Decarius, continue their disagreements in the political field now that the greater attention on the Town demands discretion. One way to run the political game could be to run small stories before the''

==Resources for the Servants of God==

''Fabianus inherited books on Divine, supernatural subjects from his pater, and has collected some Hermetic books for use by the Servants of God. As primers are found in plenty his procurement of them over the course of a decade has not raised suspicions. The library is supplemented by books on academic and church related subjects, copied from the church’s library. Their known vis sources includes a holy spring yielding 20 pawns of Divine Creo vis annually. As they have little use for vis, a significant amount has been stockpiled. The exact amount of vis income and in stock should to be adjusted to match your saga’s vis economy. Apart from this, the church provides food, lodgings, workforce, protection, and even covers other expenses as well, enabling the Servants of God to exist as a group of holy mystics, or perhaps as a covenant later on if Fabianus’ plans unfurl. The mystics earn these privileges by doing service as canons, mostly special missions as in the Town during the first events of this sequence of stories.  Church Books: The Bible: Summa, Theology (Level 10, Quality 3); Summa, Organization Lore: Church (Level 3, Quality 3). The Parish Register: Summa, Area Lore: Parish (Level 2, Quality 5). The Missal: Tractatus, Organization Lore: Church (Quality 7); Tractatus, Music (Quality 7). Breviary: Tractatus, Organization Lore: Church (Quality 10). The City of God: Dominion Lore, Summa (Level 4, Quality 10) Decretum: Summa, Civil and Canon Law''
''(Level 5, Quality 11) De Operationes Daemonum Dialogos: Summa, Infernal Lore (Level 5, Quality 12) Academic books: Scivias: Tractatus, Theology (Quality 13) Liber Vitae Meritorum: Tractatus, Philosophiae (Quality 13); Tractatus, Theology (Quality 13) Liber Divinorum Operum: Summa, Philosophiae (level 2, Quality 13); Summa, Theology (Level 5, Quality 13) Ordo Virtutum: Tractatus, Artes Liberales (Quality 13); Tractatus, Philosophiae (Quality 13); Tractatus, Theology (Quality 13) Symphonia Armoniae Celestium Revelationum: Tractatus, Artes Liberales (Quality 13) Holy books: Divine Ceremony: Summa, Ceremony (Level 4, Quality 12) Divine Adjuration: Summa, Adjuration (Level 4, Quality 12) Divine Blessing: Summa, Blessing (Level 4, Quality 12) Divine Wonders: Summa, Wonders (Level 4, Quality 12) Divine Invocation: Summa, Invocation (Level 4, Quality 12) By His Works: Summa, Holy Magic (Level 2, Quality 12) Charitable Magic: Tractatus, Holy Magic (Quality 12) Miraculous Magic: Tractatus, Holy Magic (Quality 12) Hermetic books: Hermes’ Parma Magica: Summa, Parma Magica (Level 3, Quality 12), although their copy is most likely kept in the Town; see earlier. Primers in all 15 Arts (all Level 5 or 6, Quality 15–21)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Holy Mystic==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +3, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 35 (35) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 1 (1) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Priest; Invocation, [Holy Power]; Arcane Lore, Divine Ceremony, Puissant [Holy Power]; Dark Secret: Involved with Wizards; Offensive to Demons, See Description Personality Traits: Pious +4 Reputations: Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Diocese 3 (churches), Artes Liberales 2 (debate), Cer''
''emony 5 (Invocation), Civil and Canon Law 3 (canon court), Concentration 3 (Holy Powers), Dominion Lore 3 (angels), [Holy Power]* 5+2 (Invocation), Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Invocation 5 (in Ceremony), Latin 5 (Church usage), Local Language 5 (preaching), Magic Lore 1 (magical effects), Organization Lore: Church 4 (politics), Teaching 3 (academics), Theology 3 (debate) * Each of the three holy mystics knows a different one of the following Holy Powers: Adjuration, Blessing, or Wonders Equipment: Clerical robes, Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Middle aged men with clerical robes, neatly groomed, slightly below average height.''
''The three holy mystics Gabriel, Michael, and Raphael have very similar game statistics, but each has a different set of three Minor Flaws. Gabriel has Busybody, Clumsy, and No Sense''
''of Direction. Michael has Carefree, Lingering Injury (Grogs, page 81), and Missing Ear. Raphael has Arthritis, Motion Sickness, and Temperate. When Fabianus found them, he was surprised that they had each taken the name of a different archangel, and he believes that it is a sign that they should work together. Over the years they have been taught by Fabianus and guided toward texts on the subject of their Holy Methods and Powers. They know Fabianus only under the name Hugo, but do know that he is a Hermetic magus — he is the source of their knowledge of the Order of Hermes — from a minority practicing Holy Magic, and that he works with the archdeacon. They are all ordained priests, but their duties for the church are kept to a minimum so they have time to work for Fabianus. The majority of their time is devoted to matters important for both their duties as canons and the grand harmonization project.''

==Holy Magic==

''A magus can seek to use his magic in a way devoted to God rather than its pagan Hermetic origins, typically inspired by a holy blessing, divine Warping, or witnessing a miracle. The details of Holy Magic are found in Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, pages 66–69; the Virtue is found on page 34. A magus generated to know Holy Magic from the start of a saga needs this Major Virtue, and as a result he learns the Arcane Ability Holy Magic rather than Magic Theory, and all his spells are holy versions of their Hermetic counterparts. The holy magus has a reputation as a hedge wizard among his sodales. On the other hand, if a standard Hermetic magus converts to holy magic through play he does not need this Virtue, and does not gain the bad reputation immediately, although it is likely to develop over time. The most important effects of Holy Magic are as follows:''
''• The magus is attuned to both the Magic and Divine realms, so he uses the most beneficial aura modifiers and does not gain Warping from either aura. Any lab activities possible for magi can also be performed in the Dominion; this includes vis extraction although the vis is tainted by the divine. • Formulaic spells need to be reinvented in new holy versions, and in fact most holy magi stop using their normal Hermetic spells as they lead to sin. Holy spells may never be used for evil; the spell simply fails if this is attempted. • Spells may not be cast with words or gestures, resulting in a –15 penalty, although Virtues like Subtle Magic or Deft Form still apply to offset these. The magus can substitute prayer for Hermetic procedures, requiring a simple roll of''
''Presence + Theology against an Ease Factor of 15. • Holy magi may use the special divine Ranges, Durations, and Target parameters found in Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, page 68. They do not need to use vis in rituals, but may substitute one longterm Fatigue level for every three pawns. This fatigue is not regained during the duration of the effect. • Provided the magus has the necessary Methods and Powers he may use the guidelines for Miraculous Effects from Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, pages 46–56, using the most appropriate Hermetic Technique and Form instead. They may even surpass Hermetic limits in certain ways, although this requires that the spell be a Ritual.''

|}
''Tribunal where player magi gauge the opinions of their fellow magi and try to sway the undecided, using known characters from the saga. Almost any event happening during this between time can affect the outcome of the cases. The player magi’s actions may change other magi’s opinion of them. Fr example, if a settlement is cleared quietly of infernal influence, several magi who prefer discretion for the Order may cast their votes in the player magi’s direction. Alternatively, stories may inspire sympathy or antipathy for the respective causes and the people making cases for them. For example, a run in with a local coven of hedge witches results in several of them joining House ex Miscel''
''lanea, so undecided conservative magi join Decarius’ camp.''

==Story III: Tribunal==

''A Tribunal is needed to deal with the two charges against Fabianus as well as the petition from the Servants of God to join the Order of Hermes. Fabianus has been identified by name and is summoned to Tribunal. He fully intends to come, and does so unless someone prevents him. In the''
''story as written, no one tries to stop him, but the story could be developed that way in your saga. Similarly, Fabianus might have fled into hiding, and be unaware that he is supposed to attend Tribunal. In that case, the player magi might search for him.''

==Running the Tribunal==

''The details of the Tribunal will depend on which Tribunal it is, and how such events normally run in the saga. The debate rules from House of Hermes: Societates, pages 90-93 might be helpful. Otherwise, the troupe needs to keep track of the opinions of other magi on the issues.''

==Edward the Apprentice==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 15 (15) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (1) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Apprentice; Apt Student, Book Learner, Divine Ceremony*, Holy Magic*; Church Upbringing1, Hedge Wizard, Necessary Condition* (Prayer), Weak Parens 1) New Flaw, see later Personality Traits: Curious +2, Overconfident +1, Pious +2 Reputations: As soon as the Order knows about him, he gains Hedge Wizard 3 (Hermetic). Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Town 3 (shortcuts), Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Athletics 2 (running), Ceremony 2 (Invocation), Dominion Lore 1 (angels), Holy Magic 1 (learning spells), Latin 3 (reading), Local Language 5 (slang), Music 1 (singing), Organi''
''zation Lore: Church 2 (hierarchy), Parma Magica 1 (Mentem), Theology 1 (Biblical knowledge) Arts: Cr 4, In 0, Mu 0, Pe 0, Re 0; An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 0, He 0, Ig 0, Im 0, Me 5, Te 0, Vi 0 Equipment: Novice’s robes Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: None Appearance: An adolescent with a tonsured head, the simple garb of a novice, and the slightly weak physical impression often given by scholars.''
''Edward is in practice currently being trained by the holy mystics. Formally and legally Fabianus — whom he knows as Hugo — is his master by virtue of having opened his Hermetic Arts, but the mystics continue the training. These are his statistics after training for five years, as per the standard ArM5 rules. While both Fabianus and the mystics are excellent teachers, much time is spent on religious matters which is why Edward’s training is comparable to that from a Weak Parens. Edward has been told to volunteer no information, but to answer questions honestly if asked directly. He thinks of himself as Hugo’s apprentice in the Order of Hermes; if asked about the name Fabianus he says that it sounds familiar, but he cannot remember from where. Mentem magic can recover his memory of the name on the door in the crypt. However, Edward''
''only agrees to lower his Parma if faced by a Quaesitor in good standing. If directly asked, he shows characters the crypt under the Urban Church where he is trained. He will agree to go with characters to face a Quaesitor, and is happy to submit to Hermetic justice. He does not know that his knowledge of the Parma Magica is unusual and possibly illegal, but he does know that his Holy Magic is different from standard Hermetic magic, and that he is to play a role in converting the Order.''
''New Flaw: Church Upbringing''
''This Minor Personality Flaw covers children schooled by the Church and mostly raised by clerics as well, a fate befalling some orphans, bastards, Gifted children, and other misfits. The Church may act out of charity or a wealthy individual may have paid to discreetly get a difficult child out of the way. This secluded upbringing leaves the character less knowledgeable about the rest of society, which he finds unstructured, uncouth, and confusing. The player must spend 25 experience points from the normal budget on Artes Liberales, Latin, Music, Organization Lore: Church, or Theology. Unless the character has a Virtue that permits it, no other experience points may be spent on Academic Abilities.''

==Thrice-Told Tales Charges Against Fabianus==

''Fabianus’ actions have been highly unwise, and he is guilty of two major Hermetic crimes, scrying and spreading Parma Magica. Relaying information about the Order’s business to the archdeacon is certainly unusual, and unlikely to be popular with his sodales, but it hardly constitutes endangerment or mundane interference as it has had no widespread or grave consequences. His crimes are brought before Tribunal where mystics’ petition to join the Order is also treated. Since Fabianus’ plans have moved to a new level he has no reason to stay in hiding and wants to work publicly to garner support for the Servants of God and himself. The appropriate penalty for his crimes is probably less than a March, so Fabianus feels confident that he can appear safely. If anyone does attack him, they find themselves the subjects of a new investigation.''
''Scrying''
''The punishment for scrying needs to fit the damage done or the actual intent, unless magical secrets were uncovered, which is always treated seriously. Fabianus argues that he accidentally overheard a conversation between magi, and stopped scrying upon realizing this. If the magi in question had not been Quaesitors, Fabianus might have expected a light fine, but scrying on Quaesitors is not something House Guernicus lets slide easily. They are unlikely to call for a March, unless the events of the stories suggest it, but a steep fine in vis or services is likely.''
''Spreading Parma Magica''
''The gravity of spreading the secret of Parma Magica, mentioned in brief on ArM5 page 66, requires enforcing the Join or Die policy on the student as well as Marching the magus teaching it. However this only refers to outsiders! Fabianus argues that he never had any intentions of disseminating the Order’s secrets to outsiders. He taught it prematurely to his apprentice, because he saw a need for it and as protest against the usual practice. His apprentice would eventually become fully accepted magus''
''and no harm would be done. He assures the Tribunal that had any risk appeared — the apprentice strayed away or the book gone missing — he would have taken responsibility and worked diligently to remedy any harm done. But nothing did happen, and thanks to the early introduction of Parma Magica the apprentice had the chance to learn from tutors other than his parens, to broaden his horizons. There is no doubt that Fabianus taught Parma Magica to someone who had not sworn the Code, so in this case there is clearly space to call for a March. However, the person in question was Fabianus’s apprentice, so things are not so clear-cut. While some magi would demand severe punishment, others would want to see this made into standard practice, both for the safety of the apprentice, and to enable other tutors to work effectively. Most magi would not see this as automatically requiring a March, many might look for a lighter punishment, and some might hope to change the Peripheral Code by acquitting him altogether.''
''Voting''
''The opinions of player magi may vary and whether their votes turn the tide depends on the specific saga. Arctura, as mentioned in her character description, votes to support Fabianus and she does her best to guide the hands of magi she normally associates with. Decarius, on the other hand, is opposed, not so much to the matter of scrying but to Fabianus’ grand plans as a whole.''
''Wizard’s War''
''If Fabianus is not found guilty, his opponents have the option of declaring massive and coordinated Wizard’s Wars on him. In fact, this is an option before the Tribunal or even as a replacement for legal measures. Fabianus is too weak to fight any serious opposition, although his Guardian Angel poses a threat. While the archdeacon is powerless to prevent this, he does offer''
''sanctuary in the crypt below the Urban Church. Any magi assaulting the church are going suffer its wrath and have to face the consequences, possibly including charges at Tribunal; See the section Sanctuary for Fabianus later.''

==A Petition to Join the Order==

''The holy mystics are not part of the Order and as such cannot be judged under its rules. On the other hand, neither are they protected by them. Hermetic''
''magi have officially practiced “Join or Die” method since the founding, but as the mystics haven’t actually been taught Parma Magica and can’t even learn it because they lack The Gift there is no need to accept them. House of Hermes: Societates, page 127 explains that normally only Gifted individu''

==Fabianus, Magus ex Miscellanea==

''Fabianus is known only as Hugo among all clergy and mundanes he deals with. Most of them believe he is just a pious scholar with knowledge of divine powers; none know his real name.''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre +1, Com +3, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 59 (54), Longevity ritual from age 35 of 9th magnitude, bought from a specialist magus Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 3 (11) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift, Greater Purifying Touch (pneumonia)*, Holy Magic; Affinity with Mentem, Deft Imaginem, Deft Mentem*, Divine Ceremony, Good Teacher, Minor Magical Focus (creating emotions); Chaotic Magic, Deficient Perdo, Necessary Condition (touch holy symbol)*; Hedge Wizard, Higher Purpose (reconcile society and the Order of Hermes), Meddler, Visions Personality Traits: Devious +3, Meddlesome +3, Conciliatory +2, Pious +2 Reputations: Hedge Wizard 3 (Hermetic) Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: [Tribunal] 3 (geography), Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Ceremony 4 (Invocation), Code of Hermes 3 (mundane interference), Concentration 3 (spells), Dominion Lore 3 (Di''
''vine creatures), Folk Ken 3 (clergy), Guile 4 (long term deception), Holy Magic 5 (Mentem), Infernal Lore 2 (diabolists), Latin 4 (writing), Local Language 5 (clergy), Magic Theory 1 (vis extraction), Organization Lore: Church 3 (hierarchy), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (the gently Gifted), Parma Magica 6 (Mentem), Teaching 3 (holy subjects), Theology 3 (prayer) Arts: Cr 8, In 8, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 6; An 6, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 8, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 8, Te 5, Vi 5 Twilight Scars: The smell of incense, the sounds of whispered prayers Equipment: Magus’ robes, clerical clothing, staff Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Prying Senses InIm 10/+14 Disguise of the Transformed Image MuIm 15/+11 Mastery 1 (Fast-Casting) Words of the Unbroken Silence CrMe 10/+17H''
''Panic of the Trembling Heart CrMe 15/+25F H''
''Pains of Perpetual Worry CrMe 15/+25F H''
''Rising Piety CrMe 25/+25F H''
''Perception of the Conflicting Motives InMe 15/+17H''
''Posing the Silent Question InMe 20/+17H''
''Confusion of the Numbed Will InMe 15/+15H''
''F:	 Spell is covered by the magical focus H:	 Indicates a holy magic version of their Hermetic counterparts. Vis: 6 pawns of Imaginem vis in the form of mirror shards, in a belt pouch. 8 pawns of Mentem vis in the form of tiny amethysts, set into a ring on his right index finger. Appearance: Fabianus dresses in the garb of a priest and carries no obviously strange objects to betray him as a wizard. Appearing as Hugo before the Servants of God, his natural appearance is that of an honest face with no blemishes, clean shaven and with unremarkable light''
''brown hair. In disguise, while among his Hermetic sodales, he has a wild, sandy beard and hair, one blood-shot squinting eye, and a few pox scars. Casting Sigil: The shape of a cross appears momentarily in nearby objects, for instance in gravel on the road rearranging itself. New Spells Prying Senses InIm 10, Touch/Diameter/ Room. Allows the use of both sight and hearing to sense what is going on inside a room. Rising Piety CrMe 25, Eye/Sun/Individual. Fills the target with pious emotions, making sinful acts less likely to be performed.''
''Fabianus’ pater was originally an insignificant magus ex Miscellanea from another Tribunal who in time converted to Holy Magic and subsequently trained his apprentice almost exclusively in this way. This why Fabianus has a low score in Magic Theory and mostly holy spells. Fabianus’ Visions Flaw is seen by him as a divine blessing, as most often it warns him about supernatural occurrences — mainly magical — affecting innocent mundane victims, and these drive him into action. Sadly they are not very precise. His personal calling is to harmonize the Order of Hermes with the Dominion, and he believes this is God’s will. He does this by helping the holy mystics further their knowledge of Holy Methods and Powers so they can teach his apprentice. Once the mystics step forward and are accepted into the Order as a Holy Societas under House Ex Miscellanea, the first generation will be underway mastering both Holy Magic and Divine Powers. His one great mistake is teaching the apprentice Parma Magica prior to him swearing the Code, but it seemed the only way to mitigate the detrimental effects of The Gift.''
''als are considered for membership of the Order. These usually find a member of the Lineage of Pralix for a short time of formal apprenticeship, which is used to Open their Arts, and teach them about the Order. As the mystics are not Gifted, they can be refused membership. Most other magi don’t see any argument for accepting unGifted hedge wizards of any kind, and if the Order suddenly does, a veritable flood of useless mystics thinning the ranks of true magi is an acute risk. If their petition to join is rejected, Fabianus asks they be at least acknowledged as a group of interest and offered some degree of protec''
''tion. Magi sympathetic to his cause see a use for them and would rather have them protected by the Code. If nothing else works, Fabianus claims they are integral resources needed for his magical projects, and any harm done to them is deprivation of magic. However, this runs the risk that the Tribunal will decide to execute them as punishment for his crimes.''
''A Holy Societas''
''If the mystics join or otherwise closely associate with the Order, the archdeacon is''
''pleased, even if they are required to stop working for him directly. Indeed, he grants them the necessary permission to do so. As he sees it, his most trusted people have ties to the Order and can work from the inside. His goals are not to destroy or rule magi, but rather nudge them toward harmonizing with and embracing God and the Dominion. He hopes that eventually the mysterious taint of The Gift will disappear and that magi will accepted by society, with piety taking precedence over selfishness and sin. This he leaves to the holy mystics to further from the inside, in fact he backs off and only raises complaints about gross miscon''

==Zurfiel, a Guardian Angel==

''Choir: Angel Divine Might: 15 (Ignem) Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +3, Sta +3, Dex +3, Qik +3 Size: 0 Age: n/a Decrepitude: n/a Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 2 (10) Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity (Fire), Tough Personality Traits: Love of God +5, Fierce +5, Compassionate +4, Loving +4 Reputations: None Combat: Longsword and Heater Shield: Init +5, Attack +13, Defense +13, Damage +9 Soak: +15 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0, –1/–1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28) Abilities: Awareness 6 (alertness), Concentration 5 (angelic powers), Infernal Lore 3 (demons), Dominion Lore 3 (angels), Penetration 5 (holy light), Single Weapon 6 (longsword) Powers: Guardian Angel, 5 points, Init +0, Vim: Zurfiel can grant Soak +5 and Magic Resistance 15 to a pious person in his charge, mimicking the Virtue of the same name in ArM5, page 43. While doing this, Zurfiel gains a limited access to the target’s thoughts. Holy Light, 1 point, Init +12, Ignem: By emitting a searing, white light, Zurfiel blinds any onlookers, un''
''less they succeed in a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 each round. The power has Duration: Diameter, but may be canceled at will. Orbs of the Sun, 2 points, Init +10, Ignem: Red hot orbs shoot from the angel’s hand and circle the victim, sapping him of strength due to the intense heat, draining a Fatigue level every round. The power has Duration: Diameter, and Zurfiel need concentrate only to shift targets. The following powers apply to all Angelic creatures of the Choir of Angels; for more detail see Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition, pages 19 and 26. Angelic Mantle, 2 points, Init +12, Corpus: Angels use this power to manifest in the mundane world with a form of flesh formed by their intellect, causing it to suffer Fatigue and Wounds. The angel cannot die, but the physical body can be rendered useless. Enfolding, 2 or 10 points, Init +10, Vim: The lower cost version allows the Angel to protect the target’s soul and mind from any supernatural powers for a short moment. The higher version allows protection of the body, from any physical suffering, even death, for a single moment. Envisioning, 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem: The lower cost version allows the Angel to appear in a dream to deliver a message. The higher cost version allows this while target is awake, making it seem like a vision.''
''Divine Guidance, 1 point, Init +0, Mentem: The angel may modify a Personality trait by up to plus or minus 3 for the purposes of acting virtuously. Heavenly Servant, 1 point, Init +5, Vim: The angel may double all traits (excluding Might Points, but including Magic Resistance) when battling creatures with Infernal Might. Equipment: Silvery full chain mail, white enameled heater shield, brightly polished longsword with holy inscriptions in white letters. Encumbrance: None (Zurfiel’s equipment does not weigh anything while in his possession) Vis: 3 pawns of Ignem vis in his eyes Appearance: Zurfiel looks like a perfectly proportioned marble statue of great beauty. His hair and eyes are golden, and with the white and gleaming silver of his armaments he emits a cold, hard light.''
''The angel has entered an agreement to guide and protect his charge, even physically if need be, as long as Fabianus remains in a state of grace and acts within the plans of God. Most of the time the help is merely as described by the Guardian Angel Virtue, and Zurfiel remains invisible. In rare circumstances the angel intervenes in person, and such an event is sure to be spectacular. Should his charge be killed, the angel feels obliged to help find justice or vengeance for the deceased.''
''duct by magi from this point on. On the other hand, if the affair ended in the death and killing of the mystics or other members of the church in any way, even through due legal process, the archdeacon becomes a powerful and knowledgeable enemy. His enmity is focused mainly on the player magi if a raid on the church ended in the death of his canons, but may encompass the whole Order if the mystics were executed by order of the Tribunal. In the future the archdeacon''
''can become a catalyst for stories involving the Church. For instance, he watches for mistakes, forcing the player magi to act discreetly and keep out of trouble. He might actively move against them, making magically assisted income sources difficult to utilize, or even threatening vis sources. The spread of the Dominion to magical areas can be crushing for a covenant.''

==New Alliances, New Tension==

''Following the resolution of the charges against Fabianus, the Tribunal returns to its normal business. If the holy mystics remain associated with Fabianus they are now either valuable allies of the player''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Arctura of Flambeau==

''Age: 35 (35) Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Brave +3, Stubborn +2, Honorable +1, Careful –3 Reputations: Flambeau Acclaim 3 Appearance: Arctura has an androgynous look to her. She is rather tall, thin as a rail, and wears men’s clothing.''
''Arctura wants to take over as her covenant’s main supplier of income and trade goods. Her plan is to recruit a crew of pirates and commandeer a ship in order to raid trade routes. She intends to take advantage of the sudden stop to the recent growth and prosperity of the Town to find her crew here. Her plans need a balance: hampering honest work makes piracy seem easier and more prof''
''itable, but she needs a certain amount of trade to lure in victim ships and to sell her stolen goods. Since apprenticeship she and Decarius have been rivals and competitors, which culminated in disagreement five years prior to the first story over who was to take over a prestigious lab in their covenant. The damage and disruption they caused resulted in both of them being barred from this privilege. Their relationship since then has been as enemies, and they are loath to have anyone else interfere. At the Tribunal, Arctura enters the political battlefield in support of Fabianus and of accepting the holy mystics. While there is little piety in ruining honest livelihoods to further piracy and crime, these are only the means to an''
''end: to thwart Decarius and his plans. Arctura has a certain degree of respect in her House and those who respect their values. This group consists of magi who are chivalrous, pious, interested in mundane affairs, interested in harmonizing with the Dominion, and those who oppose the Tremere. This may cover Houses Flambeau, Bonisagus, and Jerbiton, as well as others. She certainly exhibits bravery, good leadership, and respect for her enemies and she fights fairly, most of the time. A cleverly laid plan executed to avoid needless violence is also a victory. By this she hopes to win over even more magi to support Fabianus’ cause. Another prize argument of hers is that “we all remember what happened the last time a sinister Tremere plot was left to fester.”''

==Decarius of Tremere==

''Age: 33 (33) Decrepitude: 0 Personality Traits: Driven +3, Pragmatic +3, Careful +2, Brave +1, Forgiving –3 Reputations: None Appearance: Decarius is a stocky man with a full beard, a jovial expression, and stubby fingers''
''Decarius was trained in House Tremere to prepare for coming crises, and his particular goal is to secure local suppliers of provisions and other necessities, and to prepare a logistics network to ship the goods to where they are needed. This has the nice side benefit of also providing for his covenant in times''
''of peace. However, his arch-rival Arctura is ruining his work. By eliminating small obstacles and helping to speed up the natural growth of the Town, his aim is to make craft and trade a more profitable alternative to crime. If need be he gladly harasses pirates and highwaymen to further his cause. Pragmatic to the fingertips, Decarius’ focus is on his duty to his House and to a lesser degree his covenant. This means establishing supply chains through production and trade. While the assistance of the holy mystics certainly gave the Town a boost, his knowledge of such matters tells him it is not a sustainable method. The benefit was short-term, and the help is unlikely''
''to be repeated. Decarius’ conclusion is that the Town’s prosperity needs to be driven more by ambition and greed, and less by honesty and charity. Therefore he is opposed to Fabianus’ plans and asks his Exarch to ensure that the Tremere bloc votes against any such propositions. Politically he tries to gain supporters among the more conservative magi, those wanting the Order undiluted by hedge traditions, and those wanting to regain lost glory of old. This may also include those magi protecting the wild areas from mundane encroachment. Houses Tremere, Bonisagus, and Guernicus come to mind under the first heading, with Merinita and Bjornaer under the second.''

|}
''magi, a nuisance, or enemies. A lot of magi resent the Holy Magi, hold them in regard as little more than mere hedge wizards, and dislike having to do with anything connected to the Divine Realm. Fabianus and the mystics continue to reside in the crypt below the church, effectively forming the covenant of the Servants of God (if possible; rules vary between Tribunals). They focus on finishing the training of their apprentice in a manner satisfactory to both themselves and Hermetic standards. If Edward is the sole survivor within the Order, he continues Fabianus’ mission, but most likely changes his methods. If Fabianus, the mystics, and Edward are all killed, the archdeacon is an enemy, and seeks out more holy mystics to continue the work. These Servants of God are not at all sympathetic to the Order.''

==Conclusion==

''The aftermath of these stories depends heavily on how the events through all stages have unfurled, how''
''the player magi reacted, and the degree of their success (or failure).''

==Consequences for the Player Magi==

''The results of these stories change the political situation of the player magi. They are very likely to have made new allies and enemies, and are almost certain to gain Reputations. Active involvement in even a single part of this story, including political actions in the interludes, counts as a noteworthy action for a Hermetic Reputation. Magi with no prior Reputations or nothing in this area gain a score of 1 for their actions (fighter, diplomat, politician etc.) or political stance (for or against harmonization). Magi who already posses an appropriate Reputation gain points as the troupe sees fit. All situations involving direct contact with members of the Church, such as the holy mystics, or Archdeacon Petrus can create an Ecclesiastical Reputation. If the characters got involved at the request of the Quaesitores, they can expect gratitude, and probably reward. In a Tri''
''bunal with a common treasury of vis and books, Quaesitores, the Praeco, or the relevant ruling group use these resources to cover expenses and payment. Otherwise, payment depends on donations of those covenants and magi who are satisfied with the results of this case or are taken from fines paid by magi convicted in the case.''

==The End==

''However the player magi were involved in these stories, life as they know it has changed. Holy Magic has become more known, and perhaps more widespread, in the Order. A decision needs to be made regarding the principles of teaching Parma Magica. The magi have interacted with their fellow magi for better or worse and formed alliances and enmities. The same is true for select parts of the clergy. A bustling trading town in growth is either won or lost, possibly affecting the covenant’s future economy. There are many threads left to drive future stories.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Alternative Legal Interpretations==

''Some sagas may view Fabianus’ actions, particularly with the Parma Magica, much more seriously than assumed by the line in general. Whether or not harm was done or even intended the secrets of Parma Magica might be protected almost fanatically, and for this reason Fabianus and Edward the Apprentice may be Marched and killed. In this case his other transgressions and indiscretions are relevant. The archdeacon is deeply angered by such actions, and Fabianus may have supporters within the Order who come to see him as a martyr. Indeed, he may be a martyr, and become a minor saint. The consequences of such actions can drive many future stories.''
''Sanctuary for Fabianus''
''As mentioned earlier Fabianus, flees in the face of certain death and heads for the Urban Church in the City to ask for sanctuary. Should he make it, this is granted to him by Archdeacon Petrus. Although this does not in any way prevent magi from entering the church grounds and killing him or hauling him off, it should certainly act as a deterrent to such rash behavior. Apart from anything else, it is not obvious that a declaration of Wizard’s March grants immunity from the clauses of the Code prohibiting interference with the mundanes, and an assault on a church certainly qualifies as that. From here, Fabianus tries, by correspondence with the Quaesitors, to reach a compromise, one that the Order can’t and won’t grant him by way of the letter of the Code, no matter how compelling his arguments may be. The archdeacon supports him in trying to reach a''
''diplomatic solution, but he does not intend to make major trouble over it, not unless his church or his clergymen are harmed. If threats are obvious, the church employs professional guards from the City, or a group from a militant order (The Church, page 126) “just happens” to pay the archdeacon a visit. The archdeacon does not want things to escalate, and there are limits to how much he is willing to risk for Fabianus. If things look bad, he is willing to help Fabianus escape and relocate by use of stealth, and if such an attempt is foiled by magi but Fabianus is not caught, his last resort is to send the renegade magus off with an armed escort. If, somehow, the holy mystics were accepted into the Order and Fabianus was Marched, the mystics are now in a very difficult situation. As they are very unlikely to be accepted without the support of the player characters, the troupe has a good reason to get involved in the story.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
