
[|
''Each chapter of Thrice-Told Tales is a sequence of three stories, all connected, but separated by a number of years. Each chapter is, if you like, a thread in the tapestry of a saga. Each chapter could be run by a different member of the troupe, the players taking turns as storyguide as the events unfold over time. This chapter contains short summaries that avoid giving away too many secrets; only the person who intends to storyguide a chapter should read the main text.''

==Earth and Sky==

''Almost a century has past since the covenant of Ombres L’assomption disappeared, quite possibly into a regio. Now, a last survivor has come to the covenant, with word of an ancient evil. Demons threaten the whole area, and the characters must find what was hidden, and thwart their plans.''

==The Mound==

''Situated in the peat bog between two baronies lies a mound, a place long forgotten by the local lords and neighboring peasants. It has recently been discovered by a Bonisagus Seeker, who has not returned from his initial explorations. The Seeker’s parens approaches the magi and asks them to find the lost magus. Upon arrival, the magi find that both baronies have been attacked by savage revenants, corporeal ghosts who kill those they meet. The baronies blame''
''each other, but is there another culprit? Can the magi find the lost Seeker and keep the baronies from war? The mound is a persistent problem, and the revelations the magi find refuse to stay buried. Twice more evil surfaces, sowing strife and discord throughout both baronies, forcing them ever closer to open conflict. The final threat disgorges a nightmare so harrowing that it threatens the very kingdom, and unless stopped will return society to a dark age of blood, murder, and lost hope.''

==Servants of God==

''The story starts with a Quaesitor’s routine investigation of possible mundane meddling by magi from a neighboring covenant. A nearby town has suffered a major fire, and the characters are asked to help determine whether any magi were involved. A high official in the Church has complained to the Order, and as the investigations proceed, links between clergymen and magi, and with supernatural power, become apparent. The characters find themselves facing a serious threat to the Order, from an unusual source.''

==Summer Is Icumen In==

''Nominally set in the Provençal Tribunal, this story can be told anywhere''
''that magi have to peacefully co-exist with feudal society. When a noble lady in distress comes to the covenant to tell a most unusual story, the magi investigate her plight and unmask a terrible plot. They must make hard choices about truth, morality and love; magic grants great power, not necessarily great wisdom. After five years the noblewoman again calls upon the magi to assist. This time it is their own secrets they must guard, and a race against time develops to resolve the problem before hostile forces uncover what should best be forgotten. Finally, some fifteen to twenty years later the story comes to fruition, as the full ramifications of the events of the previous stories threaten to shatter the political security of a nation and two Tribunals. Have the magi made the right choices, and can they live with the consequences?''

==The Traitor’s Game==

''A redcap has gone missing, and it seems like a straightforward search and rescue mission. However, a web of deceit and betrayal leads to a darker story of envy and hatred, with its roots in the ancient history of the Order. Acts of spite threaten to destroy the covenant, and the magi find an innocent caught up in plots that go back far beyond his birth.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
