''Collem Leonis is a Second Spring covenant in the Rhine Tribunal. Its foundation dates back to the early years of the Order and it has recently moved full circle to rebirth from a dying Winter situation. It is home to four young magi and a single remaining maga from the older generation. They reside in a stone manor house in the forested hills of Sauerland, relatively close to Dortmund and Cologne. The magi are involved in researching the regiones linking the area to Scandinavia, in dealing with growing mundane expansion and trade in the Rhineland, and in consolidating the resources and relations of the old covenant.''

==History==

''Collem Leonis was founded in the year 865, soon after the regional Tribunal borders were drawn up. At that time it was the eighth covenant of the newly named Rhine Tribunal, but only four of these covenants still exist in 1220: Durenmar, Crintera, Irencillia, and Collem Leonis. In the late 850s two Bjornaer magi — Wolfgang and Adler — were led to this place of supernatural power by a Great Beast — a lion. They also found an abundance of supernatural beings foreign to Germany, which they eventually linked to the seemingly random opening of regiones. Together with a Tremere assessor and a knightly Flambeau they formed the covenant without facing significant political resistance. The Bjornaer magi focused on protecting the wild and formed a naturalistic and introvert faction. At this time, the land was owned by a Waldgraf, a German term for a lesser count who typically rules a wild and sparsely inhabited area. The covenant’s chief diplomats, Pamprepius of Flambeau and Tacitus of Tremere, reached a mutually beneficial agreement''
''whereby the forested hills were designated as hunting grounds, the covenant keep named as hunting lodge for the Waldgraf, and the closest manor given formal control over the entire area, with the silent agreement that the “wise ones” were allowed a great deal of independence. Over the years the lands and rulers changed, and the diplomatic envoys of Collem Leonis had to repeatedly re-establish the original status and rights. As the presence of magical beasts and regio openings were studied, the uncontrolled portal became one of Collem Leonis’ most distinctive features. There was a Nordic aspect to all the creatures, and the research and exploration of this phenomenon became an ongoing project for generations of magi. It drew in a pair of Bonisagi: Amadeus was a researcher, Briana a politician. As they both joined the covenant in its infancy they are considered founding magi as well, as noted in the charter. During this time, significant resources of both mundane and magical nature were found in the hills. Reluctant to set up a major operation the covenant only mined sporadically for''
''lead, silver, and iron. In its prime, manufactured goods made of metals and leather were produced on site and sold in Dortmund. Being in a safe and secluded location with good mundane relations and comfortable monetary and magical resources, Collem Leonis moved rapidly through the Spring season and into Summer. Subsequent generations of magi lacked the pioneering spirit of cooperation; they focused more on personal goals than on the common good. The period also saw the rise of several new covenants in the Rhine gorge as well as their eventual fall, with negligible interference from Collem Leonis’ magi. At the turn of the millennium Autumn approached, and the Schism War was the covenant’s first major crisis. The Bjornaer magi retreated to Crintera, not to return until the matter was resolved. The Flambeau joined the battle, and not all returned. Despite this, Collem Leonis managed to survive. Even though there were fewer members, each individual was more powerful than before, and if they were less politically active, few dared act against them. In the 1150s, the Tremere started to focus on Dortmund and established a permanent presence. During this time, the settlement grew into a town due to the prolonged stay of Frederick Barbarossa and his subsequent rebuilding of the town after a great fire. This growth culminated in 1220 with Dortmund becoming a Free Imperial City. Evil tongues claimed the Tremere played an active part, but they naturally refused to admit any complicity, and only personal disagreements arose. No serious cases have yet been taken to Tribunal. Toward the end of the 12th century, Collem Leonis was seen by outsiders as entering Winter, but the dwindling number of resident magi did not realize this until later. When they did, they worked arduously, but to no avail, to push back to Autumn, and several of them simply gave up and relocated. Those who remained represented Houses Bonisagus, Bjornaer, Flambeau, and Tremere,''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Tribunal: Rhine Year Founded: 865 Season: Second Spring Symbol: A yellow lion on a black mountain with two tops''

|}
''and they agreed to train one last generation of apprentices and then leave those youngsters the reins. Ferra never took an apprentice, as she entered a long Twilight episode soon after the plan was set in motion. As the apprentices approached their respective gauntlets, the old magi saw a major threat building up from the portal: a known Norse lindorm had grown large enough to dare attack. After his filius Tiberius swore the Code, the ever-valiant Scipio entered the portal for one glorious last stand, never to be heard from again. As the feared attack of the lindorm failed to come, he was credited''
''with success. Freki’s mater Oda retired to Crintera, but she occasionally lets her displeasure be known. Baliana’s pater Marcellus took to the roads, but spends the colder parts of the year in Durenmar. Julia’s pater Renardus retired to Coeris. Upon returning from Twilight Ferra decided to stay on at Collem Leonis in a purely advisory capacity to live out her final years. The young generation took on the challenge of taking over a degenerating ruin, hoping that the decaying shell hid gems of old lore and power. As the Tribunal of 1221 approaches, they hope to suffer little political interference or resis''
''tance, allowing them to concentrate on rebuilding, finding the old resources, and consolidating the power of the once-proud Collem Leonis covenant of Sauerland. They need to find their niche in the internal politics of their centuriesold covenant, and learn to live with the single old and powerful magus who wants to mold his successors according to a strategy planned without the participation of the new generation.''

==Boons & Hooks==

''The Boons reflect a unique and powerful location, and the history and traditions that bind the community together. The Second Spring situation is reflected by resources temporarily lost, recoverable over time and through stories. The Hooks cover the supernatural aspects as well as the proximity to a mundane lord and a bustling city, in terms of both physical distance and close relations. Details of the Boons and Hooks are found in Covenants. Tame Nobleman (Major Residents Boon): The magi have had an arrangement''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Covenant Summary==

''Collem Leonis has a budget of 650 Build Points plus another 1000 as Hidden Resources (see Boons later).''
''Resource   Build Points (known + hidden) Enchanted Devices  114+22 Labs   20+110 Laboratory Text  72+0 Library   324+793 Money   1+0 Specialists and Teachers 17+0 Vis Sources   95+75 Vis Stocks   5+0 Total   650+1000''

|}
''with the local vassal to the Count of Mark since the emergence of the Berg-Althena dynasty. In 1220 this is Herr Vorderhagen, and his family has possessed the lands for two generations. While Herr Vorderhagen is the formal lord, the lands are so vast and wild that the magi have fairly free rein away from the settled areas. Hidden Resources (Minor Resources Boon, selected four times): Several different setbacks during the failing Winter years led to a lot of Collem Leonis’ important, magical resources being destroyed, lost, or removed. Throughout the chapter can be found Story Seeds for inspiration to rediscovering portions of these, totaling 1000 Build Points Manor Hall (Free Buildings Boon): The primary building of Collem Leonis is an old but well-built rectangular manor hall with thick walls and few entrances. Aura (Minor Site Boon, selected twice): The wild, forested hills of Sauerland have been untouched by mundanes for centuries, creating a Magic aura of 5 at the covenant site. Strong Community (Minor Residents Boon): Many covenfolk have worked and lived at Collem Leonis for generations, and others are recruited from the locale. The covenant has protected them from war, sickness, hard winters, and hunger, and they have stood together in hard times, winning glory alongside the magi. This makes it more difficult for outside agencies to infiltrate and spy, which considering the recent re-emergence from isolation into Hermetic society would otherwise be a risk. Chase (Minor Surroundings Boon): The covenant has the right to hunt game, gather resources, and fell trees in an area defined as the special hunting grounds of the Count in the wild, forested hills. For the time being! This agreement is very loose and good relations with Herr Vorderhagen need to be maintained. City (Major Surroundings Hook): Originally, the relative closeness to Dortmund was not an issue, but the town’s explosive growth during the latter half of the 12th century resulted in the city becoming a force to be reckoned with. The beneficial effects of increased availability of high quality manufactured goods, information, and even exotic items may become overshadowed by growing guild influence and expansion into the wild areas. Julia of Tremere must work diligently and use her connections to offset these challenges. However, her deep involvement through personal contacts as well''
''as through her extended, mundane family means she risks exposure and possible charges of meddling with mundanes. Mundane Politics (Major External Relations Hook): Relations and politics prove an eternal challenge for the sociable magi, having to deal with mundane nobility, church, and guildmasters from chartered towns. The area is a hotbed of warmongering and political maneuvering between the Counts of Mark and Berg, who both know of the magi and want to use them. As yet no breaches of the Code have ever been proven, although the upcoming Tribunal may change this. Ideas for storylines are found in the section The Covenant in Play, later. Uncontrolled Portal (Minor Site Hook, selected twice): Seemingly random places in the heavily forested hills and valleys open up to Magical or Faerie regiones without warning and with no discernible pattern. Through these portals come Nordic supernatural creatures, as well as other inexplicable events such as unnatural weather phenomena. These portals are covered in more detail in the section Covenant Buildings later, while sample storylines are found in the section The Covenant in Play. Rights and Customs (Minor Residents Hook): Over the many years of Collem Leonis’ existence a good number of local holidays and periodic feasts have become part of daily life. These are now are believed to be unbreakable rules. Old wordings allow a set number of covenfolk, from when the covenant was much larger, to be free from work obligations on specific days. These customs must be honored by the magi or risk severe loyalty issues, even though the dwindling number of servants means that on some days virtually no covenfolk are at work. Suffrage (Minor Residents Hook): It is not unusual for Hermetic magi to consider the two genders equal, and Collem Leonis took this a step further when founding maga Briana ensured equal rights for women were entered into the charter of the covenant. Visitors and outside relations are puzzled by this structure, and if the Church were to investigate this would be considered sinful. Vis Salary (Minor resources Hook): In accordance with the charter of Collem Leonis the members must adhere to a strict hierarchy and more importantly provide services in order to receive their bi-annual vis grant from the resources owned by the covenant. Since the council has a great deal of freedom to interpret the guidelines in the charter to determine which activities are regarded as''
''services eligible for payment there is a significant advantage to be had from finding a lucrative niche or services to provide.''

==Magi==

''Collem Leonis is home to only five magi: four young magi and one from the old generation. The descriptions of the magi refer to specific terms from the Rhine Tribunal, namely ranks and gilds, which are described in brief here. Rhine magi are divided into formal ranks including journeyman, master, and archmage. The latter two enjoy special benefits when settling disputes or voting at Tribunal. The gilds are organizations that magi may belong to based on interests rather than House or covenant affiliation. The gilds of the magi of Collem Leonis include the Oak Gild, seeking to preserve the greatness of old and effectively maintain a status quo; the Ash Gild, who are aggressive and outgoing; the Hawthorne Gild, wishing to preserve wild areas; and the Apple Gild, seeking peaceful integration with mundane society. For more detail see Guardians of the Forests: The Rhine Tribunal, pages 27–29.''

==Ferra of Bonisagus==

''This 109-year-old maga is the single remaining representative of the previous generation, and a direct Hermetic descendant of the founding magus Amadeus of Bonisagus. Originally an elementalist with a strong preference for Terram, her expertise in this area this was occasionally utilized for extracting ores and metals from the mine in the hills. However, her youthful and highly experimental years and use of powerful magic brought her through one Twilight after another, and ended up giving her insight into and skills concerning the spirits of the dead. Most of her remaining career was spent in pursuit of this endeavor. Her divided specialty and goals left her with less Acclaim and success than her potential suggests. She has written and submitted many texts, trained several apprentices, invested a talisman, and bonded with an owl familiar. This was more than enough to attain the rank of master, but she never pursued the rank of archmage. Her risk-taking nature resulted in her suffering from the Flaw Twilight Prone after a particularly severe Twilight episode lasting seven years, which also killed her familiar and destroyed her talisman. When she finally''

==Ferra of Bonisagus==

''Gild: Oak Characteristics: Int +3(3), Per –2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2(2), Dex 0, Qik +1(1) Size: 0 Age: 109 (67), Gauntleted in 1137, Longevity Ritual level 50 since 1147 Decrepitude: 1(1) Warping Score: 8 (19) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Master; Elemental Magic; Affinity with MentemT, Affinity with Terram, Book Learner, Deft Terram, Inventive Genius, Minor Magical Focus (Ghosts)T, Oak Gild Trained, Puissant Magic Theory*, Puissant Terram, Skilled Parens, Special Circumstances (In the presence of ghosts)T; Ambitious, Chaotic Magic, Twilight ProneT, Weak Magic Resistance (When not standing on solid surface); Susceptibility to Divine Power T) Effects of Twilight Note that Ferra’s Virtues and Flaws do not balance due to additional ones gained from Twilight episodes Personality Traits: Ambitious +4, Advisory +3, Tidy +1, Intervening –2 Reputations: House Bonisagus Acclaim 3 (1), Master of Ghosts 2 Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Sauerland 2 (history), Artes Liberales 4 (arithmetic), Awareness 3 (searching), Charm 4 (magi), Code of Hermes 3 (certamen law), Concentration 5 (spells), Etiquette 3 (hermetic), Finesse 3 (Terram), Folk Ken 3 (magi), Guile 2 (lying to underlings), High German 5 (giving orders), Intrigue 3 (Hermetic politics), Latin 5 (Hermetic terms), Leadership 3 (running institutions), Magic Theory 8+2 (Creo), Organization Lore: Durenmar 2 (library), Organization Lore: Collem Leonis 3 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 5 (necromancers), Parma Magica 5 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Mentem), Philosophiae 3 (metaphysics), Profession: Scribe 4 (lab texts), Teaching 5 (necromancy) Arts: Cr 8, In 8, Mu 9, Pe 18, Re 14; An 6, Aq 8, Au 10, Co 10, He 6, Ig 10, Im 6, Me 24, Te 15+3, Vi 10 Twilight Scars: Magic drives vermin forth from hiding places. A dry smell of iron. Flames burn brighter, but with a blueish hue. Her reflection shows ghosts hovering over her. Her left arm is covered in thin, black, swirling lines. Her hair is always short and neatly groomed.''
''Foreign objects float to the top of any container of liquid she holds. Equipment: Thick woolen robes, a walking stick, parchment, inkwell and a quill Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Wreaths of Foul Smoke (CrAu 10/+20) Charge of the Angry Winds (CrAu 15/+20) Circling Winds of Protection (CrAu 20/+20) Wings of the Soaring Wind (CrAu 30/+22) Mastery 2 (fast casting, imperturbable casting) Sailor’s Foretaste of the Morrow (InAu 20/+20) Rain of Stones (MuAu(Te) 20/+21) The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35/+26) Pilum of Fire (CrIg 20/+22) Mastery 2 (multiple casting, penetration) Soothe the Raging Flames (PeIg 20/+30) The Call to Slumber (ReMe 10/+44) Mastery 4 (fast casting, magic resistance, multiple casting, penetration) Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe 20/+57F) Mastery 3 (imperturbable casting, lab mastery, penetration) Incantation of Summoning the Dead (ReMe 40/+57F) Ritual. Mastery 3 (imperturbable casting, learn from mistakes, penetration) Voices from Hollow Spaces (ReMe 25/+58F) Mastery 4 (ceremonial casting, imperturbable casting, learn from mistakes, penetration) Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (PeMe 5/+67F) Mastery 5 (fast casting, imperturbable casting, multiple casting, penetration, quick casting) Probe for Pure Silver (InTe 4/+28) The Miner’s Keen Eye (InTe 20/+28) Seal the Earth (CrTe 15/+28) Rock of Viscid Clay (MuTe 15/+29) Earth that Breaks No More (MuTe 20/+29) Pit of the Gaping Earth (PeTe 15/+38) The Earth’s Carbuncle (Re(Mu)Te 15/+29) The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10/+34) Day of Communion (MuVi 20/+21) Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 20/+26) F) Casting total includes Minor Magical Focus''
''New Spells:''
''Voices from Hollow Spaces ReMe 25 R: Voice, D: Ring, T: Individual. This spell is found in Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 140. It binds a ghost — which needs to be present or have been summoned previously — to a place or portable object. The necromancer needs other ways to convince or compel the ghost to subsequently do his bidding. (Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Ring)''
''Day of Communion MuVi Gen R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group. This spell is a Wizard’s Communion as found in ArM5, page 160, but with a longer duration. In accordance with the errata for Muto Vim such spells need a duration at least as long as the casting of the target spell. As Rituals as minimum are level 20 and take 15 minutes per magnitude to cast, a Muto Vim spell needs to last one hour or more, making Duration: Concentration impractical. All the magi in the group must add together the (level–2 magnitudes) of the Day of Communion they are casting. This number must exceed twice the level of the specified ritual being cast. As no more than one magus may join the group for each magnitude of the ritual being cast, this means that this spell is largely useless below level 20. It is highly useful for casting an efficient Aegis of the Hearth, which is no exception to the rule that all spells directly affecting targets must Penetrate. (Base effect, with two magnitudes devoted to the Duration.)''
''Appearance: Ferra has a kind face with pale skin, a wrinkled forehead and neat, short hair turning from gray to white. Under thick eyebrows her eyes, which are starting to go cloudy from cataracts, often flash with excitement when hearing of an initiative or when getting an idea. Her once strong back is starting to curve and her sinewy limbs feel the winter’s chill more often than not.''

==Dominator of Ghosts==

''The Dominator is an invested device in the form of a sturdy yew staff set with pieces of human skull and a green turquoise. Ferra prepared it as a compound device with 15 pawns of vis for the turquoise, but currently only a single effect has been invested, taking up 5 pawns of space.''
''Coerce the Spirits of the Night''
''ReMe 44 Pen 30, 12/day R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind Effect is that of the spell of the same name, found in ArM5, page 152. Activated by pointing at the intended target while twisting it clockwise and saying “I dominate”. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Conc; Modifications +4 uses/day +5 item maintains concentration; +15 Penetration)''
''returned, she found her covenant a decaying ruin with only a few of the most loyal covenfolk remaining. Her remaining sodales were well underway with the training of a new generation to take over Collem Leonis, and she took it upon herself to stay on and grant the youngsters the benefits of her wisdom. In 1220 Ferra fills an advisory position; she is wary of using magic for fear of Final Twilight. The death of her familiar was hard on her, even more so than seeing her covenant on the verge of collapse and her lifelong friends and sodales gone. As the senior maga she has the status of Älderman in the Council, but she uses none of her privileges or powers. Instead, she sits quietly listening or daydreaming, enjoying the energy of the young generation. Occasionally, she offers unsolicited advice or ideas of varying relevance. Her memory is failing, and she often mistakes''
''one of the young magi for someone called Heinrich, or he will say that she knew a Heinrich who did this or knew that. No one has ever been able to find out who Heinrich was, or even if he ever existed outside Ferra’s mind. Ferra is stoically preparing for her end, however it may come.''

==Baliana of Bonisagus==

''Baliana was Gauntleted in 1218, having been trained in equal parts at Collem Leonis, Durenmar, and on the roads of Rhine Tribunal and the southern coast of Norway. Her pater Marcellus — a direct descendant of founding maga Briana — has a life-long project of travel and research in order to record the magical powers of non-Hermetics along the northern borders of civilization. Marcellus gained''
''the exotic Supernatural Ability of Comprehend Magic through a lifetime of risk-filled research, And although this Ability is more often associated with the Line of Pralix from House Ex Miscellanea, he introduced it into his Bonisagus lineage, accepting the risk to his reputation. Being a renowned teacher, he ensured that Baliana mastered both Hermetic magic and Comprehend Magic. Marcellus worked a great deal with Occultes of Bonisagus, who in 1220 is the former librarian of Durenmar, and has an interest in integrating non-Hermetic hedge wizardry. His ambition is to once and for all to find, investigate, and understand the Order of Odin and the infamous rune wizards, or help fight them if need be. As this was somewhat compatible with the more peaceful goals of Marcellus, Baliana was fostered by him for a while. Occultes’ own filius Pancrestis, from the new covenant of Heorot, has been trained in Magic Theory for investigating and possibly integrating the Nordic traditions, but it seems that he does not have the courage to do field work, and Baliana can help with this. The special attention of Occultes led Baliana to feel obliged to cooperate with the political plots of her Bonisagus mentors. This in turn resulted in her joining the Ash Gild — a choice unorthodox or even controversial for her House. By associating with the Ash Gild, Baliana can learn about the organization and capabilities of the Order of Odin. For this endeavor Baliana needs to be powerful, resourceful, and with a broad repertoire of magic. The principles of her mission are simple, but the details of how she is to attain her goals are not. Collem Leonis’ portal is the major focus of her attention at present, due to the Nordic connection, and she is furthering relations with Pancrestius of Heorot beyond the superficial introduction from Occultes. The snag is, however, that Collem Leonis currently has little immediate power but plenty of potential, which it will take time to harness. At present Baliana’s project is in its infancy. No details have been decided, and it is kept secret due to the general attitude at Durenmar. Baliana intends to focus on the magic needed for her travels and research, and to study Vim as well, so once she learns about exotic magic she may ward against it or unravel its effects. Learning the rune alphabet is also a priority of hers. In Collem Leonis she is a member of the Ruling Council in the Seat of the Governor, the position responsible for the internal governance of the covenant and its resources.''

==Baliana of Bonisagus==

''Gild: Ash Characteristics: Int +2 Per +1, Pre +1, Com +1, Str –1, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 26 (26), Gauntleted in 1218 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Comprehend Magic, Flexible Formulaic Magic; Ash Gild Trained, Inoffensive to Magic Aligned Beings, Puissant Intrigue*, Skilled Parens, Well Traveled; Deficient Technique: Muto, Proud (major); Deficient Form: Terram, Deleterious Circumstances (when submerged), Fostered Apprentice, Generous (minor) New Virtues & Flaws: Inoffensive to Magic Aligned Beings: This is a Minor General Virtue found in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 86. The character’s Gift does not bother beings associated with the Magic Realm, which includes most hedge wizards. Comprehend Magic: This is a Major Supernatural Virtue found in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 128. It is a more comprehensive version of Magic Sensitivity, without the drawbacks. Users can sense vis, auras, creatures with Might, magical powers, and even supernatural abilities. There are significant advantages when studying magical traditions or investigating enchanted devices. Personality Traits: Proud +6, Generous +3 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +1, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Norway 1 (hedge traditions), Area Lore: Rhine 3 (history), Artes''
''Liberales 2 (logic), Awareness 3 (alertness), Charm 3 (debate), Comprehend Magic 4 (Nordic), Folk Ken 3 (men), Guile 3 (complex lies), High German 5 (dialects), Intrigue 3+2 (plotting), Latin 5 (scribe), Magic Theory 4 (investigating), Organization Lore: Durenmar 2 (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 4 (personalities), Parma Magica 1 (Mentem), Philosophiae 2 (ceremonial magic), Profession: Scribe 2 (copying), Teaching 2 (magical subjects) Arts: Cr 6, In 6, Mu 0, Pe 6, Re 6; An 0, Aq 0, Au 5, Co 5, He 0, Ig 0, Im 5, Me 0, Te 0, Vi 6 Twilight Scars: None Equipment: When on the road: Well-worn travel clothing of high quality, with a heavy hooded cloak. When in a covenant: A formal robe worn open to reveal an elegant gown. Circlet of the Governor (see Enchanted Devices later). Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Air’s Ghostly Form (CrAu 5/+12) Chamber of Spring Breezes (CrAu 5/+12) Charge of the Angry Winds (CrAu 15/+12) Circling Winds of Protection (CrAu 20/+12) Ward Against Rain (ReAu 10/+12) Bind Wound (CrCo 10/+12) Physician’ Eye (InCo 5/+12) Curse of the Unruly Tongue (ReCo 5/+12) Spasms of the Uncontrolled Hand (ReCo 5/+12) Gift of the Frog’s Legs (ReCo 15/+12) Phantasm of the Talking Head (CrIm 10/+12) Prying Eyes (InIm 5/+12) An Ear for Distant Bells (InIm 15/+12) The Call to Slumber (ReMe 10/+7) Unseen Arm (ReTe 5/+4) Scales of the Magical Weight (InVi 5/+13) Sense the Nature of Vis (InVi 5/+13) Appearance: Baliana is an attractive young woman, slender and healthy-looking. She has thick, chestnut brown, curly hair hanging to her shoulders and dark blue eyes which seem almost purple at times.''

==Freki of Bjornaer==

''Freki of House Bjornaer traces her line straight back to founding magus Wolfgang. Her Heartbeast is a wolf and she is an active member of Clan Arelie. Freki’s mater, Oda, found her at age seven roaming the hills of Sauerland. The girl was born and raised in Norway and is believed to have wandered inadvertently through one of the portals. After only four years of apprenticeship she attended the Gathering of the Twelve Years in 1203. She chose the name Freki from the old stories about Odin’s wolves told to her by her grandmother when she was a small child. After Gauntlet she was pressured by Oda into taking more risks than she thought necessary, the result of which was a lot of Twilight episodes, although most resulted in beneficial effects, making her stronger. She is not nor will she ever be the kind of fighter Oda is and many in their line were. Her wolf Heartbeast is the perfect predator and hunter though, and Freki works with these qualities instead. Where Oda seeks to find and destroy the enemies of old to better defend the sacred sites, Freki has a different approach. She has been touched by the current plight of his House and wishes to use her magical senses to differentiate between enemies who must be vanquished and those few individual hedge wizards or parallel traditions that can be assimilated by the House. As Birna herself came from a tradition of Pomeranian Witches, Freki has the theory that similar traditions exist in the northern lands, which is why she became interested in the portals in the first place. Freki wishes to become the leading authority on differentiating between different kinds of shapeshifters. Allied with Baliana, who has compatible goals, she intends to find the Order of Odin. She has ambitions of surpassing her cruel mater, hoping this will finally make her accept her methods and stop harassing her. Her magic is strongest in her wolf form, and she spends most of her time this way, intending to train her innate animal abilities to hunt. She has a great focus on practicing things herself, relying on vis studies, or alternating between offering training to his Sept and being trained by its members. Her continued magical focus is on Intellego and on greatly expanding her repertoire of scent-based spells, as she finds using the other senses crude and unreliable. Unfortunately, these need to be original spells of her own invention, which complicates the matter. At Collem Leonis, Freki presides over the Seat of the Predator on the council and is''
''tasked with keeping her eye on the area and serving as tracker during hunts.''

==Tiberius of Flambeau==

''Tiberius started his life as Meitzler of Soest, youngest son of Freiherr Reinhart of Soest, at an estate east of Dortmund. His pater, Scipio, recruited the boy at his home manor, effectively rescuing Meitzler from the usual fate of a youngest son of a knight — a monastery. Sadly, the boy’s insistence on leaving his family for an unconventional life was resented by his father. As ties to the family were severed, Scipio immediately rid the boy of his vulgar name and named him Tiberius. His mundane family’s enemies of''
''ten seek to take their grievances out on him since he no longer enjoys any protection from them; see the section External Relations later for more detail. Even though it is difficult at times, Tiberius has prevailed and grown stronger in the process. Tiberius and his pater Scipio follow the Flambeau school of Ramius, focusing on knightly ways and melee combat. Trained at Collem Leonis as well as in noble courts, Tiberius is as comfortable dealing with magi as he is with knights and lords. Since Pamprepius founded this line, their apprentices have been recruited from among the lesser sons of knights and nobles, valuing martial skills and a Gentle Gift equally. Like his pater before him Tiberius holds the Seat of the Armiger: he is in charge of the defenses as well as the fighting turb. The''

==Tiberius of Flambeau==

''Gild: Ash Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre +1, Com –2, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 30 (30), Gauntleted in 1214 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Gentle Gift; Affinity with Parma Magica, Ash Gild Trained, Cautious with Great Weapon, Improved Characteristics, Privileged Upbringing, Puissant Perdo*, Self Confident, Warrior; Black Sheep, Deficient Technique (Intellego), Short Ranged Magic; Deficient Form (Ignem) Personality Traits: Brave +3, Pious +2, Honorable +2 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Dagger: Init +0, Attack +8, Defense +5, Damage +4 Longspear: Init +2, Attack +10, Defense +7 Damage +8 Fist: Init +0, Attack +6, Defense +5, Damage +1 Kick: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +4, Damage +4 Longsword: Init +1, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +7 Soak: +7 (+10 if Doublet of Impenetrable Silk is active) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 1 (horses), Area Lore: Westphalia 2 (nobles), Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Athletics 2 (jumping), Awareness 3 (combat), Brawl 4 (dodge), Carouse 2 (drinking), Code of Hermes 1 (Wizard’s March), Concentration 2''
''(combat), Etiquette 3 (knightly), Great Weapon 4 (longspear), High German 5 (nobility), Hunt 2 (predators), Latin 4 (clerical), Leadership 1 (grogs), Magic Theory 3 (inventing spells), Organization Lore: Collem Leonis 2 (Flambeau), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (Flambeau), Organization Lore: Rhineland Nobility 2 (county of Mark), Parma Magica 2 (Mentem), Ride 3 (combat), Single Weapon 3 (longsword), Stealth 2 (stalking), Survival 2 (forest) Arts: Cr 5, In 0, Mu 5, Pe 10+3, Re 5; An 5, Aq 0, Au 5, Co 5, He 5, Ig 0, Im 5, Me 0, Te 10, Vi 0 Twilight Scars: None Equipment: Fine breeches and tunic befitting a knight. Full leather scale armor. Longsword. Dagger. Spear of the Armiger (see Enchanted Devices later) Encumbrance: 2 (3) Spells Known: Doublet of Impenetrable Silk (MuAn 14/+14) Mastery 2 (quiet casting, still casting) Circle of Beast Warding (ReAn 5/+12) Ward Against the Beasts of Legend (ReAn 5/+13) Mastery 1 (lab mastery) Air’s Ghostly Form (CrAu 5/+12) Chamber of Spring Breezes (CrAu 5/+12) Charge of the Angry Winds (CrAu 15/+6) The Many-Hued Conflagration (MuIg 5/+2) Bind Wound (CrCo 10/+12) Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10/+12) Edge of the Razor (MuTe 20/+19) Mastery 2 (quiet casting, still casting) Rusted Decay of Ten-Score Years (PeTe 10/+13) Pit of the Gaping Earth (PeTe 15/+14) Mastery 2 (quiet casting, still casting) Appearance: Tiberius is lean and fit with the vigor of his youth still intact. He has a charming face unmarred by scars or illness. His red-blonde hair is cut short in the fashion of a knight spending many hours each day with his helmet on.''

==Freki of Bjornaer==

''Gild: Hawthorn Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre 0, Com –1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 30 (30), Gauntleted in 1214 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (10) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Way of the Forest; Deft VimT, Free Study, Hawthorn Gild Trained, Heartbeast*: Wolf, Independent Study, Inoffensive to Animals, Minor Magical Focus (Sensing magical power), Personal vis source: 1 pawn of Vim vis per season from her teeth, Special Circumstances: When in wolf formT, Study Bonus, Unbound Tongue; Deficient Technique: Creo, Tormenting Master; Driven: Surpass master (minor), Higher Purpose: Teach shapeshifters the right way (minor), Lesser Malediction: Curse of the wolf, Poor Student, Warped Magic*: The odor of wolf * Virtue or Flaw gained from Twilight episode Note that Freki’s Virtues and Flaws do not balance due to additional ones gained from Twillight episodes New Virtues & Flaws: Independent Study: A Minor General Virtue found in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 86. It grants +2 to Source Quality for Practice and +3 for Adventure Experience per story. Lesser Malediction: Curse of the Wolf: This specific malediction causes all of Freki’s Casting Totals and Magic Resistance to be halved when in human form, but does not affect Lab Totals. Unbound Tongue; A Minor Supernatural Virtue found in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 38. It allows the character to speak with no impediment no matter what effect has changed her shape. Personality Traits: Callous +3, Driven +3, Wolf +3, Curious +1, Pious –3 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Norway 2 (wild places), Area Lore: Rügen 2 (hunting grounds), Area Lore: Sauerland 2 (wild places), Artes Liberales 1 (writing systems), Concentration 2 (withstand pain), Gothic 1 (deciphering), Heartbeast: Wolf 4 (changing into wolf), Latin 4 (Hermetic terms), Magic Lore 1 (magical traditions), Magic Theory 3 (Vim), Organization Lore: Bjornaer 2 (ancestors), Organiza''
''tion Lore: Collem Leonis 3 (Bjornaer), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (Bjornaer), Parma Magica 2 (Animal), Penetration 2 (Vim), Profession: Storyteller 2 (ancestral stories), Survival 2 (forest), West Norse 5 (dialects) Arts: Cr 0, In 12, Mu 6, Pe 5, Re 5; An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 5, He 5, Ig 0, Im 5, Me 0, Te 2, Vi 12 Twilight Scars: Claw-like toenails. Growls unconsciously when angry. Eye contact with a non-predatory animal may spook it or cause it to freeze in fear. Equipment: Loose, simple clothing. Mask of the Predator (see Enchanted Devices later) Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Shiver of the Lycanthrope (InAn 10/+13) Intuition of the Forest (InHe 10/+18) Shriek of the Impending Shafts (InHe 15/+18) Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10/+11) Sense the Nature of Vis (InVi 5/+37F ) Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20/+37F) Scent of the Gift (InVi 25/+37F) Scent of Active Magics (InVi 30/+37F) F Casting total includes Minor Magical Focus''
''New Spells:''
''Scent of the Gift InVi 25, R: Per, D: Conc, T: Smell. The spell allows the caster to smell any person within range who has The Gift, Gentle Gift, or Blatant Gift. It needs to Penetrate, and constitutes scrying if a magus is within range, unless cast forcelessly. (Base 10, +1 Conc +2 Smell)''
''Appearance: Freki has a mane of sandy hair slicked back over her head and a strong jaw. Her expression is either one of contemplative silence with the occasional hungry look at people, or a wolfish grin showing her sharp teeth.''
''Freki in Wolf Form''
''Using the rules in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 23 Freki, in the shape of her wolf Heartbeast, has the statistics listed below. Any relevant Virtues and Flaws from human form still apply in animal shape, although Social Status is irrelevant. In animal form all Academic, Arcane, and Supernatural Abilities are usable but no General Abilities except language and lores, Instead she uses the General Abilities inherent to the animal at their fixed levels, although she may Practice if she stays in animal form for an entire season, or spend Exposure or Story Experience from adventures and activities''
''while in animal form. Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre 0, Com 0, Str –1, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: –1 Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Way of the Forest; Deft VimT, Free Study, Hawthorn Gild Trained, Heartbeast*: Wolf, Independent Study, Inoffensive to Animals, Long Winded, Minor Magical Focus (Sensing magical power), Personal vis source: 1 pawn of Vim vis per season from his teeth, Sharp Ears, Special Circumstances: When in wolf formT, Study Bonus, Unbound Tongue; Deficient Technique: Creo, Tormenting Master; Driven: Surpass master (minor), Higher Purpose: Teach shapeshifters the right way (minor), Lesser Malediction: Curse of the wolf, Poor Student, Warped Magic*: The odor of wolf Reputations: None Combat: Bite: Init +2, Attack +11 Defense +9, Damage +0 Soak: +4 Abilities: Area Lore: Norway 2 (wild places), Area Lore: Rügen 2 (hunting grounds), Area Lore: Sauerland 2 (wild places), Artes Liberales 1 (writing systems), Athletics 5 (distance runner), Awareness 3 (smell), Brawl 5 (bite), Gothic 1 (deciphering), Heartbeast: Wolf 4 (changing into wolf), Hunt 4 (track by smell), Latin 4 (Hermetic terms), Magic Lore 1 (magical traditions), Magic Theory 3 (Vim), Organization Lore: Bjornaer 2 (ancestors), Organization Lore: Collem Leonis 3 (Bjornaer), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (Bjornaer), Parma Magica 2 (Animal), Penetration 2 (Vim), Survival 3 (winter), West Norse 5 (dialects) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+)''
''badge of office is the greatspear originally created by Pamprepius as his talisman. Even though most of the effects were personal to Pamprepius himself, the few still useable powers make it worthwhile. Because of the status of the hall keep as the count’s hunting lodge, Tiberius also plays the part of the knight in charge of hunting. His fighting skills as well as his general interest is invaluable in the hunting parties, which are vital for the covenant’s provisions, finances, and vis income, as well as their social relations with their lord. Like many other Flambeau, Tiberius is actively involved with the Ash Gild and feels a strong loyalty to his brothers-in-arms. He protects the weak, the innocent, and the fabric of the Order against enemies, be they external or sodales fallen from grace. He even feels this kind of loyalty toward his vulgar family, in spite of them disinheriting him. In battle he prefers a fair but challenging fight, using magic to help as necessary or to even the odds in melee. Tiberius gladly steps up to help a fellow magus by offering protection or offensive capabilities for a good cause. Rumors at Collem Leonis suggest that Tiberius is the father of Erika, the 13-year-old tomboy daughter of the covenant’s autocrat Johanna. This is true, and Tiberius works hard to maintain a good relationship with his family, which is somewhat difficult because of his frequent and long absences. His time spent with Erika is mainly used for weapons training, since this is a passion they hold in common. Tiberius thinks she may be Gifted, and as this has not manifested itself yet he also hopes she is Gently Gifted. While it would be easy enough to have Freki check, Tiberius has been putting this off. If Erika is Gifted, she should be trained, but the Rhine Tribunal believes that journeymen should not train apprentices, and she would likely be too old before he could become a master. Further, the tradition of his line dictates that he should train a younger son of the nobility, not a bastard daughter of a covenant official. Finally, the girl may not even want to train for magic; she has an obvious preference for fighting, has learned little Latin, and does not seem like the bookish type. Rather than face these problems, Tiberius prefers not to know for certain.''

==Julia of Tremere==

''Julia’s pater Renardus was deeply involved as a trader and townsman in the growing settlement of Dortmund, as his lineage of Tremere magi had been since the founding of the covenant. Dortmund was rebuilt in 1152 after a''
''devastating fire, and the extended residency of Emperor Frederick Barbarossa himself led the city to grow significantly in size, and attracted in a great deal of business in the form of trade and crafts. In 1220 the status as Free Imperial City became a reality, and Renardus was credited in his House as one of the architects of this endeavor. The truth is most likely less grand, but there is no denying that the lineage of Tremere in Dortmund did play a part in the process. Renardus found the orphaned girl Julia in a Rhineland village and fostered her with a family running a merchant business he owned in Dortmund. Julia was raised by this family as their own, along with their own children,''
''until she began her apprenticeship. Once his filia had sworn the oath Renardus retired to Coeris. Julia focused on taking his place as controller of a trading house, in the trading guilds, and among the burghers. Being a woman complicates this, and Julia sometimes wonders whether it might not be easier to use magic to pretend to be a man. The business had previously sold some manufactured items made from the various metals from the hills and crafted in the workshops at Collem Leonis, but nothing is produced there anymore. After the recent stagnation, the business concentrates on wares brought in by her foster brother Armund and''

==Julia of Tremere==

''Gild: Apple Characteristics: Int +1, Per +1, Pre +2, Com +1, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 26 (26), Gauntleted in 1219 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Journeyman; Gentle Gift; Apple Gild Trained, Deft Mentem, Good Teacher, Minor Magical Focus* (Certamen), Skilled Parens, Puissant Charm, Social Contacts, Temporal Influence; Deficient Intellego, Difficult Longevity Ritual; Ambitious, Avaricious, Close Family Ties, Susceptibility to Faerie Power Personality Traits: Ambitious +3, Avaricious +3, Loyal to House Tremere +3 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Fist: Init +1, Attack +2, Defense +3, Damage 0 Kick: Init 0, Attack +2, Defense +2, Damage +3 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Dortmund 2 (local businesses), Artes Liberales 2 (arithmetic), Awareness 2 (searching), Bargain 2 (metal wares), Brawl 2 (dagger), Charm 3+2 (forming connections), Church Lore 1 (appointing clergy), Concentration 1 (spells), Etiquette 2 (merchants), Finesse 2 (details), Folk Ken 2 (townsfolk), Guile 2 (web of lies), High German 5 (Westphalian), Intrigue 2 (alliances), Latin 5 (Hermetic), Leadership 1 (merchant), Magic Theory 3 (Rego), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (politics), Organization Lore: Rhineland trading guilds 2 (politics), Parma Magica 1 (Mentem), Profession: Merchant 3 (import), Swim 1''
''(staying afloat), Teaching 1 (magi) Arts: Cr 5, In 0, Mu 4, Pe 5, Re 5; An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 0, He 0, Ig 0, Im 5, Me 11, Te 0, Vi 0 Twilight Scars: None Equipment: Formal clothing and finery befitting a successful merchant. Clasp of the Ambassador (see Enchanted Devices, later) Encumbrance: 0 Spells Known: Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10/+9) Panic of the Trembling Heart (CrMe 15/+16) Gossip of the Marketplace (Cr(Re)Me 25/+16) Recollection of Memories Never Quite Lived (MuMe 4/+15) The Blinded Sentry (PeMe 5/+16) Tip of the Tongue (PeMe 5/+16) Calm the Motion of the Heart (PeMe 15/+16) Loss of But a Moment’s Memory (PeMe 15/+16) The Call to Slumber (ReMe 10/+16) Snap of Awakening (ReMe 10/+16) Confusion of the Numbed Will (ReMe 15/+16) Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20/+16) Palm of Flame (CrIg 5/+5) Unraveling the Fabric of Mentem (PeVi 1/+5)''
''New Spells: Gossip of the Marketplace Cr(Re)Me 20, R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind: Compels target to pass on an implanted piece of information (Base 3, +1 Eye, +2 Sun, +1 Rego req, +2 complexity)''

===The Blinded Sentry===

''PeMe 5, R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind: Target momentarily senses nothing, noticing only the initial touch. This is long enough for a single action to be performed unnoticed. (Base 4, +1 Touch)''
''Appearance: Julia is a slightly built woman but her well-tailored clothing does a good job of hiding this. Her charming face is framed by dark blonde, slightly curly hair.''
''sold or exported by her foster father, Frederick. Julia herself takes care of networking, socializing, and keeping an eye on her rivals, competitors, and the mundane authorities in general. With some work this business could eventually once again support not only Julia and her foster family comfortably, but also contribute to the income of Collem Leonis itself. Erich the spy — a companion character — is in the employ of Julia, who buys information from him on a regular basis and often has special assignments for him. Julia serves her House as an assessor, monitoring mundane activities and plans for transportation and provisions should the Tremere mobilize in her locale. Her local knowledge, connections, Gentle Gift, and resourceful ways of using subtle mind-altering magics make her invaluable to the covenant. Naturally, she holds the Seat of the Ambassador in the covenant’s council, with social relations as her area of responsibility. One of the few things that can get her temper rising is having to clean up other people’s indiscreet problems, especially those of her sodales. Discretion and delicacy is her livelihood, and she goes to great lengths to lecture her more hands-on covenant mates about this. Julia’s sigil is administered by Archmage Stentorius of Fengheld, the exarch for the Rhine Tribunal.''

==Notable Covenfolk==

''Collem Leonis has the base complement mentioned in Covenants of a single grog and two servants for each magus. The few remaining covenfolk include some exceptional and loyal individuals. The two specialists, Johanna the autocrat and Francois the acting turb captain, are worth 17 Build Points in total.''

==Companions==

''The severely depleted personnel roster of Collem Leonis means that there are very few associated specialists and other individuals suitable as companion characters.''
''Johanna the Autocrat''
''Johanna is the steward, chamberlain, and in every way the manager of Collem Leonis, and a very independent woman indeed. As the''
''daughter of a lesser noble from the vicinity of Dortmund she had the privilege of an education with a private tutor from the cathedral school. However, this only left her wanting more and with a burning desire for freedom and independence. After crossing paths with Scipio of Flambeau — the pater of Tiberius — she ran away to Collem Leonis at the age of 15 to avoid the crushing yoke of being female in the feudal system. After briefly fearing that this would be the crisis that destroyed the covenant, the magi managed to negotiate an uneasy settlement, and the girl was taken under the tutelage of Joachim, the autocrat at the time. Her first years were very turbulent, as she not only had to learn the ropes of managing a covenant, and what kind of people magi were and what they did, but also bore a child by a father unknown. Everyone thinks (correctly) that Tiberius is the father, as the two always had a friendly relationship. Nothing has ever been confirmed nor denied, and no one ever gave the matter much attention, assuming that they already knew the story. After only a few years she was thrust without warning into leadership when Joachim suddenly disappeared, along with a great deal of books and magical resources. Naturally, Joachim’s legacy was marred by this crooked end, and to the present day this mystery has not been solved (see the Story Seed: Sins of the Predecessor, later). Johanna’s daughter, Erika, grew up in this strange place, heavily''
''influenced by the supernatural. Though not of her mother’s scholarly disposition, she shares her tendencies toward freedom and equality between the genders. For game statistics use the Female Scholar template found in ArM5, page 22 with the following changes: Increase age to 31, add Profession: Chamberlain 4 (inspire loyalty), Profession: Steward 4 (mediating), Area Lore: Sauerland 4 (geography), Organization Lore: Covenant of Collem Leonis 4 (history), and spread the remaining 130 experience points as desired on key abilities, or on adding Organization Lore: Order of Hermes, Realm Lores, or even Code of Hermes.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Dark Magus==

''Ruprecht was a cover used by Imanitos Mendax of Jerbiton, who for the purposes of this seed is assumed to be a dark magus: see Guardians of the Forest, pages 72–74. Imanitos had, many years earlier, been orchestrating the corruption of the covenant’s former Autocrat Joachim and his grand theft from the library, as described under Hidden Resources, later. Imanitos failed to receive the stolen books, and he saw Erich as a way to spy indirectly on the magi of Collem Leonis, hoping to find the books again. Erich’s information was of no help at all, so Imanitos abandoned this project, for now. Although he still visits Dortmund and Cologne he now uses a different guise and identity, and bides his time before reactivating Erich as a spy. Imanitos was disguised using an Imaginem spell while interacting with Erich, and so assumes that his identity is safe. However, Erich’s Second Sight saw through the illusion, and thus Erich would recognize Imanitos as “Ruprecht” were he to meet the magus.''

==Erich the Spy==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 21 (21) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Outcast; Strong Goblin Blood*; Affinity with Stealth, Improved Characteristics, Keen Vision, Learn Stealth from Mistakes, Puissant Stealth, Second Sight (from Strong Goblin Blood); Dark Secret (spy for a diabolist), Meddler (major); Judged Unfairly *) Goblin Blood gives a +1 modifier to stealth related rolls, but this is not included in Ability scores below. Personality Traits: Meddler +6, Curious +3, Jealous +2, Greedy +1 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Dagger: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +3, Damage +2 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Dortmund 3 (people of importance), Athletics 4 (climbing), Awareness 4 (secretive people), Bargain 3 (selling secrets), Brawl 2 (dodge), Charm 2 (learning secrets), Faerie Lore 1 (urban faeries), Folk Ken 2 (secretive people), Guile 2 (learning secrets), High German 5 (being polite), Second Sight 1 (faeries), Stealth 4+2 (hiding) Equipment: Dagger. Discreet clothing. Heavy hooded cloak. Encumbrance: 0 Appearance: Although well-versed in hiding behind his cloak and roaming in the dark hours, Erich’s goblin blood betrays him if he is seen up close. His skin has a green-grayish tint, his facial features are too sharp to be completely natural and human, and his eyes have a faint yellow glow in the dark.''

|}
''Erich the Spy''
''Erich grew up in the shadows of Dortmund; his goblin blood made him ill-favored by humanity and adept at shady activities. In his youth he quickly realized that while stealing was easy for him, it was risky business and in the long run merely a shortcut to a life as a one-handed beggar or a swing on the gallows. Instead, he focused on using his sharp senses from places of concealment to learn secrets which could be sold to a growing market of customers in the rapidly expanding trading town. The spy is in possession of invisible information and does not risk getting caught, like a thief with stolen goods. Of course, trespassing can also be a crime, so care must be taken. Years of practice and an instinct to ask the right informants made Erich into a proficient spy. He does not rely on being known but instead approaches likely buyers once he learns potentially valuable secrets. Eventually he made contact with Renardus of Tremere, and a profitable professional relationship began. Erich was loath to commit to only one employer and thus continues as a freelance agent, but admittedly most of his work is done for Renardus and his successor Julia. A few years ago as he was setting up business in Cologne his Second Sight revealed an invisible person. This led him to discover diabolists establishing a coven, which he initially saw as a business opportunity his meddlesome nature could not leave alone. In time the nature of demons and their worshipers began to terrify Erich, and he wanted to back out before succumbing to demonic temptation. However, as many members were powerful authority figures his business in the city was doomed. From that point on he has avoided Cologne like the plague, and keeps his knowledge a secret for fear of being sent back to unravel the organization. Unfortunately, this did not keep him out of trouble. A merchant going by the name of Ruprecht, who participated in the diabolic rites, noticed Erich spying, and confronted him in Dortmund later. Ruprecht had obvious supernatural powers and detailed knowledge of the Collem Leonis and the magi, and he intimidated Erich into spying on them. Erich never supplied important information, and after a few months Ruprecht stopped showing up, but Erich lives on in constant fear of his return or some disaster befalling the covenant brought on by his spying.''

==Grogs==

''The turb consists of a modest five fighting grogs led reluctantly by Francois the greatswordman, and including the seasoned sentry Paul. This group is augmented by the bows of a few huntsmen like Geri.''
''Francois the Grog Captain''
''Francois was brought to Collem Leonis from Normandy by Tiberius only a few years ago, and still struggles with the local language. He is a specialist fighter and has picked up enough leadership skills to serve adequately as a sergeant. However, the shortage of manpower led to his promotion to Grog Captain. For stats use the Specialist template on ArM5, page 21 except switch Single Weapon for Great Weapon (greatsword), switch Bargain for Leadership, and add High German 3 (grogs), with experience points gained from raising his age to 20.''
''Geri the Hunter''
''Geri is a local lad, quiet to the point of being sullen and with a dark view on life. What sets him apart form other hunters is that he possesses Second Sight, but this is kept mostly a secret as such a thing usually causes fear in others or raises suspicions. Use the Hunter template on ArM5, page 21 with the following changes: Add Afflicted Tongue, add Second Sight, and raise age by at least one year to improve the ability.''

==Paul the Spearman==

''Paul has served Collem Leonis for quite a few years and is the sort of archetypal grog who seems to always be on watch when something odd happens or an important visitor arrives. There is also a tendency for him to always accompany the magi on those expeditions which turn out to be sufficiently dramatic to be remembered afterward. He is a skilled fighter and an even more apt sentry, with the endurance and discipline to stay awake and fully alert all night long.''
''The Rest of the Turb''
''Statistics for the remaining grogs can be taken from the templates in ArM5, page 21, or Grogs, pages 87–143. The latest potential recruit is the feisty, redheaded tomboy Erika, 13-year-old daughter of Johanna the Autocrat, who enjoys roughing it and fighting, and certainly has a flair for it.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Paul the Spearman==

''Characteristics: Int –1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com –1, Str +1, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 32 (32) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 Virtues and Flaws: Turb Trained, Enduring Constitution, Keen Eyes; Carefree, Lingering Injury, No Sense of Direction New Virtues & Flaws: Turb Trained: This Minor Social Status Virtue is featured in Grogs, page 76. It grants access to Martial Abilities as well as a single Dead Language which the magi at the covenant speak. Lingering Injury: This Minor General Flaw is featured in Grogs, page 81. An old injury has not healed properly, resulting in a permanent –1 penalty to strenuous physical activities. A botch on these activities aggravates the injury to –3 penalty, and recovery is as for a Light Wound. Personality Traits: Brave +2, Carefree +3, Curious –2 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Dagger: Init +1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +4 Fist: Init +1, Attack +5, Defense +4, Damage +4 Short spear: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +6 Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Sauerland 3 (geography), Awareness 5 (keeping watch), Athletics 3 (running), Brawl 4 (dodge), Carouse 3 (merrymaking), Chirurgy 2 (binding wounds), Concentration 5 (staying awake), High German 5 (common tongue), Latin 3 (Hermetic usage), Organization Lore: Collem Leonis 2 (turb), Ride 4 (long distance), Single Weapon 4 (short spear) Equipment: Quilted armor, Dagger, Short spear Encumbrance: 1 (2) Appearance: A nondescript grog wearing a faded green tunic with the covenant’s symbol prominently displayed on its chest. He looks fit, perceptive, and disciplined. His left arm is often bandaged or set in a sling, forcing him to perform most tasks one handed.''

|}

==Specialists and Other Covenfolk==

''Collem Leonis has only the base complement for a covenant of two servants or laborers per magus. Julia’s house in Dortmund has two of these in the form of her foster parents; the remaining eight are a mixture of teamsters, stablehands, maids, and kitchen staff, as well as Ferra’s personal servant Otto, who keeps her lab clean.''

==Covenant Organization==

''Collem Leonis is organized in accordance with and ruled by the charters thoroughly drawn up at the time of founding. Nothing has been altered since the first decade of the covenant’s existence.''

==Hierarchy and Governance==

''Collem Leonis has a highly hierarchical structure with several ranks for the magi, a remnant of the time with more members from different generations. These days the structure seems not only archaic but also needlessly complex. However, the rules need to be followed, and provisions for changing the rules require a certain degree of cooperation and agreement between the council members. In many ways Collem Leonis is closer to a meritocracy than a gerontocracy, as members must perform services for privileges, and age only matters for a single council seat.''
''Income and Supplies''
''Collem Leonis has rights to utilize any resources within the border of the so-called hunting grounds, granted by the count of Mark. This includes hunting, gathering, and logging. This last is done only for construction purposes, since the Woodshed of Plenty detailed later covers all fuel requirements. The hills contain veins of many minerals, including iron, coal, lime, silver, bronze, tin, and lead in moderate quantities. The magi of olden days were reluctant to take advantage of this, since running a full-scale mining operation is indiscreet and risks triggering guild interven''
''tion. Metal was extracted by magic and according to need; Ferra was integral to this in her younger days. This could, with sufficient work and time, be turned into a profitable source of income, by way of either bringing in greatly increased manpower and expertise, or using magics dedicated to this venture. This is also a source of potential stories, see the Story Seed: The Mischievous Kobold later.''
''Study and Laboratory Work''
''While the library is only a pale remnant of the glory days of Collem Leonis, the new generation of magi may still find useful texts readily available, and in time many of the lost books can be recovered. The site has a strong aura which compensates for the lack of advanced labs available.''

==Life at Collem Leonis==

''Daily life for magi and covenfolk alike is peaceful and unchanging, the centuries of history and tradition covering everything like a heavy but comfortable blanket. However, now the new generation has taken over there are bound to be changes. Occasionally this quiet life is interrupted by supernatural events from the uncontrolled portals, upheaval and political turmoil in the mundane surroundings, or changes in the delicate guild structure of the constantly evolving city of Dortmund. The magi, however, govern themselves within the strict wording of the charter.''

==The Charter==

''The charter recognizes three levels of rank: haeres, prospectus, and visitator. Apprentices are given no formal rank and follow that of their parens as a courtesy. Haeres was originally the rank of the founding magi, and was subsequently extended mature magi who were judged worthy by the council. The haeres form the ruling council of the covenant. A prospectus is a younger maga in residence who has not yet established herself in the eyes of his superiors. It also covers haeres demoted to this rank for a transgression. Visitators are short term residents who do not qualify as peregrinatores, as defined by the Peripheral Code of the Rhine Tribunal.''
''Ruling Council and Seats''
''The haeres form the ruling council, and they alone vote in matters concerning the covenant, including promoting, demoting, or accepting members. The ruling council recognizes five seats, held for an entire cycle (as defined later) before the council may call for a vote to name another haeres to the position. A seat is given to the haeres most suitable for the position, with the best skills to fulfill her responsibilities. Any member may nominate a candidate, including himor herself. If several candidates apply the presiding Elder sets a suitable test to resolve the matter. No maga is ordinarily allowed more than one seat, and if a magus is most appropriate for several seats she chooses the one she prefers and a new round of nominations follow for the unoccupied seat or seats. If a seat can not be filled the Elder holds the responsibilities temporarily and may delegate work to nonhaeres. All seats other than the Elder are given on loan one of Collem Leonis’ magical artifacts, in order to form a link with the legacy of their predecessors: see Resources later.''
''• The Seat of the Elder goes to the senior haeres. The Elder’s responsibilities are: Acting as moderator of all council meetings, calling a vote when discussion has lasted a suitable amount of time, and overseeing the recording of all discussions and votes in the covenant chronicle by a scribe. She must always cast her vote, never abstain, and her vote is tie-breaking should the parties be deadlocked. • The Seat of the Governor goes to the haeres most suitable to govern the day to day business of the covenant. She holds the Circlet of the Governor as badge of office. • The Seat of the Armiger goes to the haeres most capable in combat in whatever form it may be, especially in the defense of the covenant. She holds the Spear of the Armiger as badge of office. • The Seat of the Predator goes to the haeres with the sharpest senses and best local knowledge to better keep an eye on Collem Leonis’ domain. She holds the Mask of the Predator as badge of office. • The Seat of the Diplomat goes to the haeres most skilled in social relations, especially those with the mundanes, in order to keep Collem Leonis safe, secret, and prosperous. She holds the Clasp of the Diplomat as badge of office.''
''Voting and Meetings''
''All issues are decided by a majority vote. Each haeres has one vote, and votes may be blank unless otherwise noted. The ruling council requires at least two thirds of the haeres to be present in order to be quorate. An amendment during the charter’s first year notes that changes to the charter need a two-thirds majority to pass. Regular council meetings are held on the morning of the first day of each season. Any haeres may call an emergency council meeting with due warning. This is deliberately not defined as a fixed time frame as it depends on the urgency of the issue. Any haeres may later raise the issue and complain about a given meeting not having been called with sufficient warning and ask to have a decision called to vote once more. The council may not take a vote to demote a haeres without her presence, unless they have informed her at least one season in advance, or done their very best to try to deliver such a message. A cycle is defined as a period of time lasting two full years or eight seasons. The count started in the spring of 858, before the covenant was even officially recognized, and thus the spring of 1220 is the start of a new cycle. Meetings follow the cycles: the first meeting in a cycle, held during spring, is primarily used to asses the services rendered in the previous cycle, and the general conduct of all covenant members.''
''Rights, Responsibilities and Sharing''
''The council decides on rights for prospecti regarding use of the library and labs on a case by case basis, and visitators have a set agreement with the covenant at the time they join, in accordance with the Peripheral Code rulings of Rhine Tribunal. Apprentices may only use the library by sharing their parens’ rights and priorities. Prospecti have the right to ask the council once per cycle for elevation to haeres. No prospectus is granted library access without having performed a service or made an equivalent donation to the covenant. Services rendered in one cycle can allow for privileges only during the following cycle. Haeres likewise need to have performed a service in the previous cycle in order to gain full privileges for library, laboratories, and projects. Lacking this they may only borrow books no other magus with library privileges desires to read; note that a privileged magus may only claim one book per season. Once the use of a laboratory has been granted, the council cannot take this away, save by completely dismissing a magus, but only a privileged magus is granted funding to run his''
''lab from the covenant coffers. Lacking this, the magus needs to pay from his own silver and use only his own exotic or expensive materials. A service is defined as a season’s worth of writing a suitable book, enchanting a suitable device, or finding or securing a vis source — all to be donated to the covenant. This may also cover any action which takes a significant amount of time, or is dangerous and requires time to recuperate. While most such services are accepted, the council may call for a vote as to whether a given service is valid. Serving on a seat is not by itself a service, however only rarely does a magus not spend at least one season on his responsibilities. Further services may be rendered, as this affects the vis salary. At the start of a cycle, when services are being tallied, the vis income is accounted for. After subtracting from this amount the fixed expenses for projects for the common good, any remainder is divided up in shares. The fixed expenses are primarily the casting of the Aegis of the Hearth, devices commissioned for the covenant’s use, healing magics, or Longevity Rituals. In case of a deficit the council must cover the necessary expenses and plan for reduced expenses or increased income for the following cycle. When vis salary is distributed each haeres receives two shares, and the Elder is granted an additional half share for his greater responsibilities. Prospecti are granted a half share. Any haeres or visitators performing additional services during a cycle are granted another single share per service, or only half a share for prospecti. The vis is divided as best it can be into shares, and any remainder is saved until the next cycle and added to the income. Any magi finding books or vis may keep it, dividing among themselves as they see fit. Donating such a find counts as a service. Any vis source found in the domain of Collem Leonis must be given over to the covenant, although the magi finding and securing it are granted the harvest of the first year. As there are no set borders for the covenant’s domain the council decides on a case by case basis. Any vis sources found elsewhere may be kept by the magi who found it, but protecting it is their personal responsibility.''
''Censure and Dismissal''
''Any maga not following the rules of the charter may be censured by a vote of the council. A haeres is demoted to prospectus, and after one full cycle she may petition the council to take a vote to elevate her to haeres again. A prospectus or visitator is dismissed from the covenant. She has one full season to clear out her chambers and lab, and thereafter may not''
''enter the covenant’s domain for a period of 5 years. Peregrinatores are protected by the Laws of Hospitality and the rulings in the Rhine Tribunal’s Peripheral Code, and cannot be dismissed under Collem Leonis’ charter. Notes left by a legally oriented previous member suggest simply paying off troublesome peregrinatores to leave prematurely if need be.''
''Peripheral Charter''
''The peripheral charter contains rules based on decisions made by the council on various occasions. Only the rules are recorded in this document, perhaps to keep it brief. Delving into the chronicles of Collem Leonis may reveal the circumstances behind the rulings. The peripheral charter states that the following short rules apply universally and shall not be subject to further scrutiny. It claims that it is sufficient to know that they exist for very good reasons.''
''• The ancestral sites of the tallest hill of the area may not be visited, except by members of House Bjornaer. • No lions, or for that matter any sort of large feline, may ever be hunted without the express permission of a resident Bjornaer magus. • There exists total equality between the two genders: no positions remain closed to women, nor are they refused the right to vote. (As this is not specifically mentioned to only apply to magi the rule is enforced universally.) • The servants and covenfolk are allowed time off from work in accordance with local customs for celebrations and holidays, including, but not limited to, starts and ends of seasons, harvest, midsummer, midwinter, and various religious festivals. The Autocrat is the arbiter of these events but no more than 20 covenfolk may be spared from service at a time. • No fiery animals may enter the library. In fact no open flame may ever be present there. • Any animated dead sent on errands must be managed by a suitable party who can control them if need be. No council member needs to accept the help of such walking dead if they do not conform to his ideas of discretion and aesthetics, and she has the right to ask for other help more appropriate to the situation.''

==Covenant Site==

''The visual experience of Collem Leonis’ main site from a distance is one of grandeur, which gradually changes to decaying oncegreatness as one approaches it. In addition to the stone manor, the covenant owns a townhouse in Dortmund, a disused mine, and without doubt a number of lesser locations forgotten by all remaining magi and covenfolk.''

==Environment==

''The buildings of Collem Leonis lie between the steep forested slopes of Sauerland, on top of a low hill. Surrounding the main site is a modest earthen dyke roughly 200 feet in diameter, with an unmaintained wooden palisade. The only opening faces the path to the nearest village and once held a wooden gate, which has long since been taken down and used for makeshift construction work. The terrain slopes gently away from the foot of the earthworks and was once cleared of trees within a bowshot’s length, but bushes and weeds have grown. Beyond this begins a thick forest. As one moves down the hill the Magic aura fades away, giving rise to a Faerie aura of 1 in most of the surrounding area, save for small pockets of Magic aura where the vis sources are found.''

==Main Structures==

''Collem Leonis consists of an imposing rectangular manor hall constructed from large stone blocks with a sturdy slate roof. Originally, it was a very defensible structure, but over the centuries the massive main doors have been complemented with a series of secondary entries. The old, small windows have been enlarged in several places, or converted into doors on the ground floor. A few of the upper story rooms have been fitted with wooden balconies. The main entrance leads into the entrance hall that contains the main staircase to the upper levels, dividing the ground floor into two sections. To the left is the kitchen, servants’ quarters, a secondary spiral staircase, and storage areas. To the right is the library and scriptorium, as well as the dining hall, which also doubles as council chamber. The upper floors hold the laboratories and sancta, but many of these now stand as empty rooms. The hall stands in a large yard with patches of cobblestone between larger expanses of gravel or muddy puddles, where chickens and pigs mill around. Half empty stables and shacks hold the''
''animals and wagons. A deep and finely engineered well sits between two leaning outbuildings near the kitchens. It was once surrounded by beds of herbs and spices, which are now swamped by weeds and shaded by listing walls. In the covenant’s heyday the place would have resounded with the hammering of the armorer and the sound of formation marching and orders barked. Now it emits the gentle sounds of a small, sleepy hamlet.''

==Laboratories==

''The manor hall has space for eight standard laboratories, and earlier generations had reserved two of these for visitators or peregrinatores, fitting them out for transient use. Earlier resident Bjornaer magi made their sancta in the woodlands outside the ring wall and the Aegis in a place unknown to the current residents; see Hidden Resources later. In 1220 one of these rooms is a customized laboratory in use by Ferra. Four others are standard laboratories used by Tiberius, Baliana, Julia and Freki. The laboratories of the older generation of magi were either emptied of equipment as they left or so highly personalized that a clean start was preferred. The remaining three laboratories have not been used for anything constructive in almost a century. They are used to store unwanted materials and refuse, and useful items needed elsewhere have been scavenged. The baseline for a covenant is one standard Size 0 laboratory per magus, for a total of five. One of these is Ferra’s personalized laboratory, which has an additional cost of 20 Build Points for the balance of Virtues and Flaws. With the additional three unmaintained transient laboratories (at 0 Build Points each) this makes eight in total. Laboratories sum up to 20 Build Points''
''Ferra’s Laboratory''
''Ferra has customized her laboratory over the years. Her enchanted device Dominator of Ghosts (see earlier) does not cost Build Points since it is personally owned. Names added to Sanctum marker: Heinrich Characteristics: Size +0 (0), General Quality +2, Safety – 1, Health – 1, Refinement +3, Upkeep +4, Warping 0, Aesthetics +5 Virtues and Flaws: Greater Feature (Summoning Circle), Greater Expansion, Living Quarters, Specimens (bound ghosts), Superior Construction, Superior Lighting, Highly Organized, Servant, (Otto, Int +2) Spotless; Greater Focus (summoning circle), Missing Equipment, No Stores, Undecorated''
''Specializations: Texts +1; Creo+1, Rego +7; Imaginem +1, Mentem +6 Personality Traits: None Features: Summoning circle Magic Items: Dominator of Ghosts (see Ferra’s character statistics) Notes: The activities Binding Familiar and Experimentation are impossible due to Missing Equipment. Through the use of Terram magic Ferra has heavily modified the original structure, resulting in Superior Construction.''
''Standard Laboratories''
''These laboratories are used by Baliana, Freki, Tiberius, and Julia. No personalization has been performed in these laboratories yet. Names added to Sanctum marker: None Characteristics: Size +0 (0), General Quality 0, Safety 0, Health 0, Refinement 0, Upkeep 0, Warping 0, Aesthetics 0 Laboratory Virtues and Flaws: None Specializations: None Personality Traits: None Features: None Magic Items: None Notes: None''
''Unmaintained Laboratories''
''These laboratories were originally intended for transient use by visitors, but almost a century of neglect and scrounging of parts to keep the other laboratories running has left them in poor working order. Names added to Sanctum marker: None Characteristics: Size +0 (0), General Quality – 1, Safety – 2, Health– 3, Refinement 0, Upkeep – 5, Warping 0, Aesthetics – 5 Virtues and Flaws: Hovel, Missing Equipment (x3), Missing Sanctum Marker Specializations: None Personality Traits: None Features: None Magic Items: None Notes: Due to the multiple Missing Equipment, Inventing Spells, Enchanting Devices, Binding Familiars, and Extracting Vis are currently impossible.''

==Outlying Buildings==

''Additional outbuildings jut from the stone walls of the main hall in no discernible order. The earliest of these have stone foundations, but over time wood and wattle shacks with thatched roofs sprang up with little planning or care. Some have''
''decayed and crumbled over the centuries, and others are only maintained by means of substandard work and materials, giving newcomers the overall impression of a chaotic mess. But on closer inspection the details of the high quality buildings can be seen, and with a little work the place could regain a lot of its original impressive appearance. Outbuildings growing from the left side are workshops for smithcraft, carpentry, leather working, or work areas for butchers, sausage makers, and brewers. Outbuildings to the right, entered from the scriptorium, are fewer and of better quality, and once held shops for vellum makers and book binders. Most workshops have fallen into disuse since very few goods are produced here anymore and the main kitchen has more than ample space to serve the dwindling population.''

==Uncontrolled Portals==

''The highly mutable entrances to Magic and Faerie regiones are Collem Leonis’ most distinctive feature, one of the main reasons for the founding of a covenant at this location, as well a focal point for centuries of research and daring expeditions. Although the portals are unpredictable, generations of magi have meticulously registered every time the portals opened and what came through them, together with times, places, actions taken, and any associated events that could be interpreted as forewarning. All recorded events have occurred in the forested hills and valleys within a few days’ trek of the main covenant buildings. Eventually the covenant accumulated an extensive library of these events, and several prediction charts. Characters who are familiar with the portals and have access to the texts are able to make educated guesses about portal events. By interpreting subtle omens, including weather, vegetation, and animal behavior, they can form a theory about which portal will open, where, when, and either what will come through or may be sought by entering. An open portal appears as a terrain feature or piece of vegetation that seems out of place, and is surrounded by a vague, shimmering light. This odd feature is actually showing what the regio opens up to, and investigating magi have a chance of deducing to which area inside the regio the portal leads. Sometimes the opening starts out as a small point of light, growing to the size of a large tree within days, while at other times it opens immediately. The light is easier to notice at dusk and dawn, but observers who are not familiar with it often dismiss the phenomenon as a trick of light or shadows. While the portals are a liability, with the risk''
''of monsters arriving and threatening the covenant’s resources or relations, they also represent enormous potential assets. Through the use of clever diplomacy many monsters and magical animals have been used as challenging hunting expeditions for the ruling count, to further cement the ties and special privileges enjoyed by Collem Leonis. A lot of vis is harvested at these times, but the frequency and yield is so random that this is not counted among the stable vis sources. The portals also seem to be partly responsible for the aura and vis in the area. Several sample storylines connected to these portals can be found in the section The Covenant in Play, later. Lesser and fairly frequently occurring events might include the following. A pack of gigantic, ferocious, and highly clever wolves who terrorize the area during a harsh winter. Large boars made of stone who individually track vis in the form of plants and fungus by smell, potentially leading the magi to new sources, if the boars do not eat it first. Faeries pretending to be various Nordic gods roam the area influencing how the villagers farm their lands, who they marry, and who they do battle with.''
''Predicting Events''
''The Ability Area Lore: Collem Leonis Portals covers knowledge of both the history and properties of the Magic and Faerie regiones. Characters can study this Ability from the records of previous events and research by earlier magi. This is the method that was used to keep watch and predict events before they unfurled, so as to be better prepared. A character actively keeping watch decides on the period she wants to cover, and how long she will spend looking for signs. The watcher makes a stress roll of Int + Area Lore: Collem Leonis Portals against an Ease Factor of 15, but higher results yield additional information and details. A number of''
''modifiers also apply as outlined later. The results of a successful roll are shown on the table. Prediction Roll: Stress Roll of Int + Area Lore: Collem Leonis Portals Modifiers: – 3 for spending 10 days or less observing and consulting texts +1 for spending a month +3 for spending an entire season – 3 for spending more than half the observation time in the library rather than in the field +1 for the quantity and quality of Collem Leonis’ current reference materials +1 per scout with a score in Area Lore: Collem Leonis Portals of at least 5 who actively looks for signs. This may be done while performing normal work chores (hunting, logging, mining) away from the main covenant site. +3 if a character with Premonitions assists in the field. Only applies once. +3 for predicting for the current season 0 for predicting a season in advance – 3 for predicting more than a season in advance''
''Ease Factor achieved: 15	 Location is narrowed down to one cardinal direction relative to the covenant, but no further details are known. If no portal will open, the character knows this. 18	 Location is predicted to a single valley, hill, cave system, lake etc. The realm affiliation and general type of the event is known: animal migration, supernatural animals, monstrous attack, weird weather phenomenon. 21	 Location is known precisely. The specific creature or phenomenon is known, plus details of its motivations, possible countermeasures, and so on. Characters with Premonitions may attempt to learn about the portals using their Supernatural Ability. Use the same Ease Factors, but with no modifiers. Characters with Visions may receive visions about the portals, at the storyguide’s discretion. Monitoring the portals in this way does not need any magical ability, and is a poor use of a maga’s time. Unfortunately, at present there is no one in the covenant who understands the portals well enough to even attempt predictions.''
''Magical Regio: Jotunheim''
''When the portals are magical in nature, they open up to what the magi of Collem Leonis call Jotunheim, referring to Norse myths. In this cosmology Jotunheim is one of nine worlds and inhabited by the giants. The regio has two levels, one of aura strength 3 and one of strength 8, both''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Is This Really Jotunheim?==

''Maybe. There are magical giants, a tie to Norway, and physical similarities. Many of the giants know runic magic, and the leaders are full-fledged Vitkar as described in Hedge Magic Revised Edition, pages 120–141. The giants also refer to themselves as “Jotunn”. Earlier magi at Collem Leonis have seen no reason to doubt their assessment.''

|}
''aligned with chaos (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 15–16), a very rare occurrence indeed. Anyone inside the regio must roll a number of additional botch dice equal to half the aura rating. These extra dice are not subject to reduction by Cautious Sorcerer, Spell Mastery, Gold Cord, or any other known Hermetic means. Perhaps in compensation, the regio produces one pawn of vis, in an appropriate Form, for every zero rolled when checking for a magical botch. The lower level of the regio is a primordial wilderness with towering mountains, thick forests, flowering valleys, raging rivers, and breathtaking fjords. Entry from Sauerland always leads to a pass in an immensely high mountain range, with perpetual storm clouds overhead. Animals found here are large and remarkable specimens of wolves, bears, boars, foxes, hawks, ravens, wild bulls, and horses. Some are even giant sized, have special powers, or are intelligent. Rare finds include the occasional Norse dragon or a lindorm. The sun moves at varying speeds across the sky making navigation and keeping tabs on the passage of time difficult. Previous expeditions have attempted to map this level, taking the coldest area as the north, but the rapid changes due to the chaotic nature of the regio have made the maps unreliable. The higher level completely surrounds the lower level. The entrance point from the portal is close to the centre of the lower level, and a few days’ trek in any direction brings visitors to some form of difficult terrain. Scaling the almost vertical mountains to the east leads to the domain of the storm giants. To the north the mountains gradually give way to a rocky wasteland of snow and ice, the domain of mountain giants. There is no known ruler of these lands, but the previous generation of magi believed this direction led to Niflheim, a world of cold and ice. To the south lies a dusty, sun-baked and broken land, the domain of fire giants. Beyond this is believed to lie Muspelheim, the world of fire and heat. To the west the terrain slopes down, leading the rivers of meltwater among the forested mountains and valleys to deep fjords, which again lead to the sea. This sea appears vast and endless, and the few scouts sent sailing or flying into the ocean have all been driven back by wind and waves. The magi have discovered two local ways into this regio. Most simply, it can be entered when the portal is open. Earlier magi also discovered that access is possible by following a route up the hill known locally as Eisenhöhe, but only under astrological conditions that occur roughly every 10 years. This leads to the same point in the lower level as the portal. Once inside, moving between the levels is achieved by braving the difficult terrain, be it vertical cliff faces, frozen mountains, scorching desert,''
''or endless ocean. Indeed, some earlier magi have suggested that there is only one level to the regio, and that the strength of the aura varies from place to place within it. Others argued that the strength of the aura defines a regio level. Whether this debate is more than semantic remains to be seen. The lower level has a number of exits that lead to uninhabited parts of Norway. These are easy to use from within the regio, and can be used to enter the regio, following the normal rules for crossing regio boundaries (ArM5, page 189). Exiting back to Sauerland is only possible while the portal is open. Transportation magic works within the regio, and can take characters out through the portal to Sauerland while the portal is open. If the portal closes while people are inside, the only options are to leave via Norway, or to wait inside for the portal to open once more.''
''Faerie Regio: Midgard''
''When the Norse gods ruled these lands, magic creatures ruled the wilderness and the faeries playing the parts of the Norse heroes and gods thrived in the reverence of the humans. The arrival of Christianity and the Dominion pushed them back, and now they are all but gone from the mundane world. In the Nordic cosmology Midgard was the domain of men, occasionally visited by the Aesir and Vanir gods, giving rise to stories and myths. The previous generation of magi named this Faerie regio Midgard because it is a recreation of the life the Nordic people lived centuries ago. It has a Faerie aura of strength 6. Incognizant faeries play the parts of farmers, princes, and kings, as well as the animals and monsters who plague them. Each spring they abandon their daily duties and sail off on viking raids to prove their manliness and bring home riches. The passage of time is so swift between visits that even if only a year passes in the mundane world the oldest son has replaced his father as king in the regio. Collem Leonis’ magi believe the faeries are focused on the social life of changing generations and all this entails: feuds, alliances, intermarriage, inheritance. Highly Cognizant faeries play the Nordic gods who visit Midgard occasionally, typically when they have lured mundanes into the regio to interact and play the part of heroes, fighting monsters, participating in viking raids or wars, and eventually winning the hand of the king’s daughter. At times the faerie gods plague the mundane realm by staging a march to war or a monstrous invasion, in accordance with some story or myth. All these faeries have stories they want visiting humans to participate in, and stronger faeries might take over stories initiated by their lesser brethren and twist it into a tale about themselves.''
''Physically Midgard is similar to the mundane world, with natural hills, forests, pastures, and fields, but it is in constant flux. Viking strongholds and villages lie at rivers and on the coast, and exploration has shown the land to be a single, large island surrounded by a vast ocean. All manner of creatures from Nordic folk tales can be found: Elven maidens dance on grass-clad hills in the moonlight, dwarves work their smithies below the ground, and trolls demand tolls on roads and bridges; most of them set challenges for travelers and gain Vitality from interaction or countermeasures taken. The longships sail off with raiders each spring and return with loot, slaves, and livestock, always in lesser numbers due to casualties. As yet, the magi of Collem Leonis have not determined whether the raiders actually raid anywhere. The powers of the kings wax and wane as they war among themselves, form alliances, or are the victims of a dragon or lindorm. Visiting humans have every opportunity to interact in Nordic folk stories, with specific mythic historical figures, and with Nordic gods. Midgard can be entered in several ways: if led by an inhabitant, by sensing the boundaries, or by circling Eisenhöhe clockwise while a rainbow is visible in the sky. Leaving is harder. The faerie gods can grant anyone permission to leave, permission they grant once their story has finished, but the entry points are not exits, and the magi have yet to find any points in the regio from which they can leave by their own magic. When a portal opens to this regio, it can easily be traversed in either direction, but most of the time there is no portal.''

==Associated Properties==

''In the glory days there were many properties and locations off site in use by Collem Leonis, but now only a few are still known. Rumors claim several magi interested in the wilderness once lived outside the walls and Aegis.''
''Julia’s Townhouse''
''The townhouse in Dortmund where Julia lives is an unofficial site of Collem Leonis’. The building is old but well built and maintained. The ground floor holds the merchant shop of Julia’ foster father Frederick, with the front room used for business during the day and living quarters during the night. The back holds a kitchen and staircase, with storage in the cellar and a shed out back. The upper floor holds Julia’s simple yet stylish reception chamber for important clients. When studying Julia prefers to have the books brought from Collem Leonis to be close to her business. She is considering moving her lab here, but that could be interpreted as creating a chapter house and she is not sure she wants to pursue that avenue just yet.''
''Eisenhöhe and the Mine''
''The older generation dug into the hills for metals and minerals, particularly the highest hill, known locally as Eisenhöhe, and the covenfolk know the place well. Located halfway up the slope, the mine shaft, worn slippery by years of use as well as water trickling down it, leads to the floor of the mine’s antechamber. From here man-sized passages have been cut into the bedrock to follow veins of''
''the metals and minerals sought. Vis has always been harvested here and it is still an active vis source, though no longer in use as a mine. All the covenfolk have heard tales of the kobold who haunts the mine (see Resources, later).''

==External Relations==

''Although large expanses of forested hills are still unsettled in 1220 the recent almost explosive growth and emergence of towns and cities along the Rhine and its tributaries necessitates continual monitoring of mundane matters as well as the occasional intervention.''

==Nobility==

''When the covenant was founded, Tacitus of Tremere and Pamprepius of Flambeau, as the sociable and extrovert faction, worked to establish relations. The regiones brought an abundance of supernatural animals and beasts. Tacitus used this to reach an accord with Herr Reginald — a powerful knight who controlled the large tracts of wild lands where the covenant was situated as the Kingdom of Lotharingia emerged from the split of Middle Franconia. Reginald was seen as a defender against the hills, which were known to be teeming with all kinds of beasts and sinister magicians. He saw great advantages for both parties in an informal alliance with the Hermetic magi.''
''The political environment has changed many times since then, with the covenant’s site becoming part of the kingdom of Germany and the county of Berg. Berg-Althena split off from that county and was renamed the county of Mark in 1202. The noble families have changed even more often, as the posts are not necessarily hereditary. Through it all, the magi have managed to preserve their privileges and relationships. They are careful not to swear formal oaths of fealty, stay wary about how much information the count has, and avoid intervening directly.''
''Count of Mark''
''The current count has increased his land holdings as well as personal power to become one of the most influential lords of the Westphalia region. The counts of Mark have been an important part of the opposition to the archbishop of Cologne since the early 1200s, even though the archbishop is a cousin of the count. Thus, the situation in 1220 is potentially explosive. So far, the magi have simply avoided the issue, but if they get dragged in any further than defending themselves, they face a great deal of trouble under the Code. Count Adolph I knows that his vassal Herr Vorderhagen harbors wizards in an inhospitable part of his domain, and that said place is teeming with dangerous beasts and faerie beings. As the wizards do not seem to be actively harming anyone this arrangement suits him just fine. The forested hills are useless anyway, anything dangerous will be contained as per the agreement, and he assumes that he can call upon the magi at will, whether to hunt challenging and dangerous game or to provide help and counsel. If the saga follows history, Count Adolph I loses a significant portion of his northern domain between Dortmund and Soest to Archbishop Engelbert, until he is reconciled with the next archbishop. Later he inherits the land of a distant cousin — Frederick of Isenberg — and his power is on the rise again. Adolph lives to the ripe old age of 55, at which point his son Engelbert I of Mark inherits his lands in 1249.''
''Herr Vorderhagen''
''The formal lord of Collem Leonis is Herr Vorderhagen, a vassal knight to the count. His manor lies outside the wild forested hills, in the village of Micklingshaus. By means of hard work over generations the Flambeau and Tremere lineages have made this knightly family into a puppet of the covenant. Vorderhagen is a willing ally, because the wizards seem to influence the count''
''and help keep the lands in Vorderhagen’s family even though they are not hereditary, but he is secretly afraid of the sinister doings of the wizards in their crumbling lair. He prefers them as slightly distant allies, which also suits the magi.''
''Duke of Limburg and Count of Jülich''
''These neighboring areas are deeply intertwined with the counties of Mark and Berg. In 1220, the duke of Limburg is Henry III, who is succeeded by his son Waleran III in 1221. In the 1220s, the dynasty is involved in disputes with the archbishop of Cologne concerning territory and inheritance. If your saga follows history, then Henry IV, the son of Waleran III, is named count of Berg in 1225 after the archbishop’s death, and subsequently duke of Limburg in 1226 after the death of his father Waleran III. Waleran III’s daughter, Mathilda of Limburg, married Count William III of Jülich, and in 1220 their son William IV is count. These family ties keep the domains united in their struggle with the archbishop of Cologne.''
''Freiherr Reinhart II of Soest''
''The current lord of these lands is the older brother of Tiberius of Flambeau (who was born Meitzler of Soest). He recently inherited the title from their father Reinhart I. The freiherr’s lands lie at the eastern end of the county of Mark, bordered by the domains of the bishops of Münster and Paderborn respectively, both staunch allies of the archbishop of Cologne. Reinhart II is a reluctant supporter of the count of Mark’s faction in opposition to the archbishop of Cologne, since his own lands are threatened by ecclesiastical domains. No matter how hard pressed the freiherr may be he refuses to even make contact with his longlost younger brother Meitzler. Enemies of the freiherr know they need not fear repercussions if they move against his black sheep brother, causing a multitude of problems for Tiberius in his attempts to keep Collem Leonis out of an open conflict between the count of Mark and the archbishop of Cologne''

==The Church==

''The main challenge in relations with the church is that the current archbishop of Cologne, Engelbert I, is also a powerful noble, major landholder, and a warmonger.''
''Engelbert''
''Engelbert has ruled as Engelbert I, archbishop of Cologne since 1216, and is also duke of Westphalia in virtue of his ecclesiastical office. He has also ruled as Engelbert II, count of Berg since 1218, when his older brother, Count Adolph VI of Berg, died with a daughter, Irmgard of Berg, as his only child. Note the differences in number of the clerical and noble titles. The archbishopric he took over was suffering great civil unrest, and he campaigned against the duke of Limburg and count of Cleves for years to consolidate the archbishopric’s lands. In 1217, Irmgard of Berg married Henry IV of Limburg, the son of Duke Waleran III, against whom Engelbert was waging war at the time. The dispute over succession to the title of count of Berg was temporarily settled in 1220 when Engelbert paid off the Duke of Limburg. If your saga follows history, then the territorial disputes cool off in 1225, when Archbishop Engelbert I is murdered by his cousin Frederick, declared a martyr, and later canonized as a saint. His successor as archbishop is Heinrich I von Mullnarken. The pressure from the archbishop diminishes further in 1288, when Cologne becomes a Free Imperial City and the seat of the archdiocese is moved to Bonn, further south along the Rhine.''

==City of Dortmund==

''The previous generation of Tremere are suspected of having been instrumental in Dortmund’s evolution from insignificant village to Free Imperial City. Just how influential they were has never been determined by any mundane or magical agency. The trade and craft guilds of Dortmund have had dealings with Collem Leonis in the past through the Tremere as intermediaries. Even though the magi used magic to sweeten their part of the deal, this also benefited the city. Any attempt to increase the income of Collem Leonis is sure to cross paths with a guild in Dortmund. See the section The Covenant in Play later for more story ideas.''

==Covenants of the Order of Hermes==

''Collem Leonis was founded after the Peripheral Code ruling of 780 giving existing''
''covenants the right to veto the founding of a new covenant, but was unopposed. As of 1220 the covenant has yet to make use of this right. In the few years that have passed since they took over, the young magi of Collem Leonis have formed a few relations with other magi and covenants, in connection with ongoing projects and issues. As of 1220, they have no significant links to Oculus Septentrionalis, Waddenzee, or Triamore.''
''Crintera''
''Freki has ties to her domus magna through her sept and clan. Her personal project of investigating shapeshifters in the north is neither well known nor a goal for her House, so she has no allies in this. Her mater has a more aggressive attitude toward shapeshifters and her allies may become enemies of Freki’s. The original reason for founding a covenant at Collem Leonis’ site was the sighting of a Great Beast, and many Bjornaer magi are interested in this, as well as in the protection of an ancestral site.''
''Durenmar''
''Collem Leonis’ long lineage of Bonisagi has always ensured ties to Durenmar. This is still true, since Baliana’s pater resides here during the winter months, and her mentor Occultes is always present. Notable Ash Gild member Philippus Niger has also noticed Baliana and her projects, as he is also involved in the battle against the Order of Odin, tying him to both Occulus Septentrionalis and the new covenant of Heorot. Both Occultes and Philippus Niger are prepared to lend assistance and hints to Baliana, but want something in return, at some point.''
''Heorot''
''This prospective covenant hidden among the marshlands of Zealand in Denmark may seek recognition as an official covenant at Tribunal in 1221. If this is to be successful they need support or at least indifference from all Rhine covenants, as even a single veto thwarts their attempt to found Heorot. The magus Pancrestius of Bonisagus is interested in researching and cataloging local, Nordic magic traditions. He is a protege of Philippus Niger and filius of Occultes, both from Durenmar. Occultes also happens to be Baliana’s mentor, and she has recently taken the first steps toward working with Pancrestius.''
''Fengheld''
''Once Collem Leonis returns to the political arena Fengheld, being powerful yet not terribly old, is naturally wary. Julia has ties through Stentorius of Tremere, who is her Exarch and holds her sigil. Fengheld’s chapter house in Cologne is a concern due to its proximity to Collem Leonis, and Fengheld may be attracted by Dortmund.''

==Resources==

''Collem Leonis is much weaker than it was in its heyday. Some resources have been lost permanently, while others may be restored with varying amounts of effort.''

==Income Sources==

''The covenant lives off hunting, gathering, and logging. The surplus of these resources is traded to the nearby village for local produce. This constitutes a Typical source of income for the covenant, although considering the extremely low number of covenfolk only a small portion of the potential is actually used in 1220. Collem Leonis has supported at least three times the current number of inhabitants in the past and it could do so again. The mine in the hills could be re-opened as a profitable yet labor intensive source of income, although magical assistance could ease this considerably. Using her contacts among traders and craftsmen in Dortmund, Julia could once again turn a profit from metals mined and goods crafted.''

==Enchanted Devices==

''The devices serving as badges of office or integral to daily life are well known to the magi. The powers and, more importantly, the activation requirements are found in the old chronicles of Collem Leonis. However, a storyguide or troupe using this covenant for a saga and wanting a bigger challenge could rule that the devices are mentioned in only vague terms and the player magi therefore need to investigate and identify the effects one by one. Records also hint at the existence of other devices which are now lost or hidden, see Story Seed: Banquet of Wasteful Opulence, later. Given the relatively few devices and their importance the magi had little difficulty in keeping tabs on them while other resources were more easily lost over time. All devices have a base effect (not counting''
''modifiers) below 6th magnitude and so do not cause Warping due to powerful effects, although some may Warp with prolonged use. Enchanted Devices are worth 114 Build Points.''
''Clasp of the Ambassador''
''A clasp for a cloak made from silver with a violet amethyst mounted so that it can be rotated. It is an invested device prepared with 15 pawns of vis as only the amethyst was enchanted, and the following effects take up 6 pawns of space. It was created by Tacitus of Tremere in the 870s as the badge of office for the Seat of the Ambassador — a title coined by himself in order to inflate his importance on the ruling council of Collem Leonis. Its cost is 22 Build Points.''
''Aura of Beguiling Appearance MuIm 15 Pen 0, 12/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind A variant of the spell Aura of Ennobled Presence, which causes the target to appear more friendly, conciliatory, and credible. The character gets +3 on rolls to win trust and make friends, but still suffers any effects of The Gift. This spell was first mentioned in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 96. It is activated by turning the amethyst clockwise in the silver housing. (Effect: Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Modifications +5 uses/day)''
''Aura of Equality ReMe 40 Pen 32, 12/day R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind A variant of the spell Aura of Rightful Authority (ArM5, page 151), causing the target to accept the caster as an equal. This defuses a situation where the target is of higher rank and makes him open to negotiation. Tacitus of Tremere preferred this version as it is less risky compared to forcing orders on high-standing mundanes. His notes on the item also remark that the Penetration is sufficient to affect an archbishop with his Commanding Presence power (Realms of Power: The Divine, page 42–43) while inside a cathedral, where the Dominion protects him even further. Activated by looking the target in the eye, bowing slightly and speaking the words “Greetings my equal”. (Effect: Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun; Modifications +4 uses/day; +16 Penetration)''
''Spear of the Armiger''
''This heavy longspear is made from a sturdy ash wood shaft reinforced by bands of bronze,''
''and was originally created by Pamprepius of Flambeau and attuned as his talisman. All the attunements, as well as personal effects specific to Pamprepius, are now useless and not detailed here. It was prepared with 24 pawns of vis; the useless effects take up 10 pawns of space and the usable effects listed below take up another 8 pawns, leaving 6 points of space for further effects. Pamprepius was known — as were his Hermetic descendants — for preferring a standup fight and trying to even the odds rather than butchering an enemy. Even though the device could affect creatures within shouting distance, all previous owners found this distasteful and have always merely spoken the command words softly. Its cost is 32 Build Points.''
''Blunt the Viper’s Fangs PeAn 40 Pen 20, 24/day R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind As the spell of the same name found in ArM5, page 119. The effect works on animals up to Size +7. Activated by making a swinging motion toward the target while saying the word “blunt”. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Voice +2 Size; Modifications +5 uses/day; +10 Penetration)''
''Invocation of Weariness PeCo 40 Pen 20, 24/day R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind As the spell of the same name found in ArM5, page 133. The effect works on humanoid bodies up to Size +4, as Pamprepius hated having his Corpus spells circumvented by giant-blooded enemies. Activated by making a stabbing motion toward the target while uttering the word “weariness”. (Effect: Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Size; Modifications +5 uses/day; +10 Penetration)''
''Mask of the Predator''
''This is a terrifying mask made from the skull of a wolf, with occult symbols inlaid in silver. It was created by Wolfgang of Bjornaer and granted to his favorite filia, Ulvisa, to help her follow in his footsteps in the Seat of the Predator. It was prepared with 15 pawns of vis, as the sum of the medium sized skull of bone and a tiny amount of silver decorations, and filled with only 8 pawns worth of effects. Several of the users of this mask have, through the centuries, developed spells to meld the bone mask to their bodies to be able to bring it along when changing shape, but have yet to add this as an effect in the device. Its cost is 26 Build Points.''
''Immediate Sense of What Treads the Surface InTe 30 Pen 0, unlimited uses R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part The user has an instant sense of all creatures touching the ground within 1000 paces, with no more detail than rough mass, speed, and direction. It is activated by closing one’s eyes and touching the ear of the mask to the ground. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +2 Size; Modifications +10 unlimited use)''
''Eyes of the Bat InAu 34 Pen 0, 12/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Hearing As the spell of the same name found in ArM5, page 127. It is activated by closing one’s eyes and tilting one’s head rapidly once each to the left and to the right. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch +1 Conc +3 Hearing; Modifications +5 maintains concentration, +4 uses/day)''
''Circlet of the Governor''
''Amadeus of Bonisagus made this enchanted gold circlet for his much-appreciated amica Briana to help her in her daily business of monitoring and running the covenant from the Seat of the Governor. It was prepared with 20 pawns of vis, and filled with 4 pawns worth of effects. It is fitted with a fixed Arcane Connection to the fireplace in the council chamber, but can work with any other connection to a suitable medium. Its cost is 22 Build Points.''
''Summoning the Distant Image InIm 30 Pen 0, 24/day R: Arcane, D: Concentration, T: Ind As the spell of the same name found in ArM5, page 145. It is activated by touching the circlet with both hands while crossing the arms. Amadeus noted that the use of this effect without the following one could constitute scrying if a magus is present. (Effect: Base 2, +4 Arc, +1 Conc, +2 Room; Modifications +5 uses/day)''
''Phantasm of the Talking Head CrIm 25 Pen 0, 24/day R: Arcane, D: Concentration, T: Ind As the spell of the same name found in ArM5, page 145. It is activated by touching the circlet with one hand at the forehead and one at the back.''
''(Effect: Base 2, +4 Arc, +1 Diam, +1 intelligible speech; Modifications +5 uses/day)''
''Woodshed of Plenty CrHe 30 Pen 0, Unlimited use R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Group During the first generation of Collem Leonis it saddened Adler of Bjornaer to use the covenant’s rights to logging, so she created this magical woodshed. Subsequent users have remarked upon its ridiculously overpowered production. Opening and closing the door fills the shed with ten cubic paces of wood in nice, fireplace sized logs. As a result there was little reason to touch the forest, as all the needs for wood for fuel could be met. The duration of Moon is even enough to barter the wood to the nearest villages for local food products; by trading frequently and only small amounts at a time the magi ensure that the wood is used before mystically disappearing. The forest stays as thick as ever. Adler wrote that anyone activating the shed before it was wholly emptied of the previous production of wood should be flogged with a whip made from their own skin. Records do not elaborate on whether this has ever actually happened. If using the economic system of Covenants, pages 56–71, this device results in cost savings equal to three laborers. Its cost is 12 Build Points. (Effect: Base 2, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +2 Group; Modifications +10 unlimited use)''

==Library==

''Although Collem Leonis’ collection contains some sound works, it lacks the volume needed to truly call it a library. An old covenant having seen many generations of magi should have adequate materials for grounding in all the Arts, as well as myriads of supplemental tractatus. According to Ferra it used to be much better, but she can offer no clear explanation as to what happened. She seems to remember Heinrich having once borrowed a couple of good books, but the younger magi are not sure what to make of that. Cursory investigation of Collem Leonis’ chronicle and covenant rolls suggests that some resources were taken by the old magi to their places of retirement, and most of the lab texts and books on spell masteries were ruined by a fire a decade ago, but much of the library should still be around the covenant, somewhere. This is described in the section Hidden Resources later. The library, as it stands, amounts to a mere 324 Build Points worth of books and 72 of spells.''
''Mundane Abilities''
''Tacitus of Tremere, The Urban Landscape, Area Lore: Dortmund Summa, Level 2, Quality 9 (15 Build Points) Elias of Jerbiton, Elias’ Primer on Sauerland, Area Lore: Sauerland Summa, Level 2, Quality 9 (15 Build Points) Elias of Jerbiton, Elias’ Primer on the Order, Organization Lore: Order of Hermes Summa, Level 3, Quality 9 (18 Build Points) Various Autocrats, Collem Leonis Rolls, Profession: Autocrat Summa, Level 4 Quality 6 (18 Build Points) Various Autocrats, Collem Leonis Chronicles vol. I, Collem Leonis Chronicles vol. II, two individual Organization Lore: Collem Leonis Tractatus, each Quality 6 (12 Build Points total)''
''Texts about the Uncontrolled Portals''
''Collem Leonis has over the centuries accumulated a lot of material on the ever changing regio entrances. These texts contain meticulous records of times, places, events, countermeasures taken, vis or resources procured, and the consequences of the situation. There are many maps of the mundane areas where the portals appeared, and of the regiones. Additionally there are many attempts to form a grand, unifying theory of the unique situation, but all have been found flawed over time. All unfinished research material is also archived here. As outlined in the section Covenant Site earlier, this material can be used to predict future openings of the portals, but can also function as study material on lthe phenomenon, comparable to a Summa. The game mechanics of the material has deliberately been designed with the potential to bring readers to high levels of knowledge, if they invest a great deal of time.''
''Various authors, Portae Septentrionem, Area Lore: Collem Leonis Portals Summa, Level 8 Quality 5 (29 Build Points)''
''Books on the Arts''
''Petrus of Bonisagus, Blessed Growth, Creo Tractatus, Quality 10 (10 Build Points) Irina of Guernicus, Oculus Tertius, Intellego Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Diviana of Merinita, Nature’s Mutable Qualities, Muto Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Scipio of Flambeau, Weaken and Decay, Perdo Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Vries of Tremere, Hierarchy, Rego Tractatus, Quality 11 (11 Build Points) Vries of Tremere, Domination, Rego Trac''
''tatus, Quality 11 (11 Build Points) Adler of Bjornaer, Nobility Among Beasts, Animal Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Adler of Bjornaer, Nature of the Rhine, Aquam Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Adler of Bjornaer, Life Giving Rain, Auram Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Maximillian ex Miscellanea, Sanguine Humours, Corpus Tractatus, Quality 8 (8 Build Points) Maximillian ex Miscellanea, Melancholic Humours, Corpus Tractatus, Quality 8 (8 Build Points) Scipio of Flambeau, Entangling with Thorns, Herbam Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Adler of Bjornaer, Living Wood, Herbam Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Ardor of Flambeau, The Hot and the Bright, Ignem Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Ardor of Flambeau, The Cold and Dark, Ignem Tractatus, Quality 9 (9 Build Points) Briana of Bonisagus, Whispering Winds, Imaginem Tractatus, Quality 12 (12 Build Points) Briana of Bonisagus, Prying Eyes, Imaginem Tractatus, Quality 12 (12 Build Points) Vesta of Tremere, Spirits of the Void, Mentem Tractatus, Quality 10 (10 Build Points) Vesta of Tremere, The Subtle Art of Manipulation, Mentem Tractatus, Quality 10 (10 Build Points) Ferra of Bonisagus, Dirt, Terram Tractatus, Quality 6 (6 Build Points) Ferra of Bonisagus, Rock, Terram Tractatus, Quality 6 (6 Build Points) Ferra of Bonisagus, Iron, Terram Tractatus, Quality 6 (6 Build Points) Ferra of Bonisagus, Silver, Terram Tractatus, Quality 6 (6 Build Points) Vries of Tremere, The Intangible Art, Vim Tractatus, Quality 11 (11 Build Points)''
''Laboratory Texts''
''Ward Against Beasts of Legend, ReAn 15 Bind Wound, CrCo 10 Circle of Recovery, CrCo20 Enter the Domain of Eir, CrCo30, Ritual Whispers through the Black Gate, InCo(Me)15 The Inexorable Search, InCo 20 Eyes of the Cat, MuCo 5 Invocation of Weariness, PeCo 20 Pilum of Fire, CrIg 20 Aura of Ennobled Presence, MuIm 10 Perception of the Conflicting Motives, InMe15 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, InMe 20 Posing the Silent Question, InMe 20 Thoughts Within Babble, InMe25 Scent of Peaceful Slumber, ReMe 20 Piercing the Faerie Veil, InVi 20''
''Piercing the Magical Veil, InVi 20 Day of Communion, MuVi 20 Gather the Essence of the Best, ReVi 15 Aegis of the Hearth, ReVi 20, Ritual Total: 360 levels (72 Build Points)''
''New Spells''
''Circle of Recovery CrCo 20, R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle. Targets receive a +12 bonus to Recovery Rolls as long as they stay within the circle, and thus need to stay there for the entire recovery time. (Base 5; +1 Touch +2 Ring)''
''Enter the Domain of Eir CrCo 30, Ritual, R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Circle. Named after Eir the Norse goddess of healing. People within the circle have all their wounds improved by one step, and Light wounds are thus completely healed. Guideline from Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 100. (Base 25, +1 Touch)''

==Vis Stocks==

''Collem Leonis’ vault holds a total of 35 pawns of vis, all from the covenant’s own sources: 25 pawns of Vim vis (silver liquid) and 10 pawns of Terram vis (blue stones). This adds up to 5 Build Points.''

==Vis Sources==

''The vis sources for Collem Leonis known by the resident magi yield a total of 19 pawns annually, amounting to 95 Build Points. All''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Summary of Vis Stocks==

''Art Pawns Build Points''
''Creo 0 0 Animal 0 0 Intellego	 0 0 Aquam 0 0 Muto 0 0 Auram 0 0 Perdo 0 0 Corpus 0 0 Rego 0 0 Herbam	 0 0 Ignem 0 0 Imaginem0 0 Mentem	 0 0 Terram 10 2 Vim 15 3 Total 25 5''

|}
''sources are marked clearly with the covenant symbol in relief on a rock and have been properly registered with the Redcaps.''
''Silver Spring''
''Each year on the first day of spring, a certain stream formed by melting snow turns silver. Catching this slow trickle of water before it touches the ground yields 8 pawns of Vim vis over a day.''
''Albino Stoat''
''An extended family of partly domesticated stoats lives near the covenant, and one of the litters always includes an albino. The old records mention that the albino always flies into a blood rage upon reaching maturity and raids the chicken coop during autumn. If the animal is killed without the skin being pierced and subsequently exsanguinated, the blood contains 4 pawns of Animal vis, which does not appear until the rage is imminent. There is no mention of anyone ever having tried to capture and breed the albino stoat.''
''Blue Stones of the Mine''
''Starting out as small specks of dark blue on the mine walls in random places, the vis grow in size until they are fist-sized bulbous protrusions. Once ready they fall off the wall like a ripe fruit during summer. If not picked up within a few days, they dissolve and end up as a purple stain on the floor, the vis being re-absorbed into the stone. The annual yield of this source is 7 pawns of Terram vis. Collection is not hard in itself, but old covenant records warn about the kobold of the mine.''

==Wealth==

''Currently Collem Leonis’ coffers hold the modest sum of 10 Mythic Pounds of silver, worth 1 Build Point.''

==Hidden Resources==

''The better part of the resources Collem Leonis accumulated during its lifetime is not readily available for the Second Spring covenant, and is represented by the Hidden Resources Boon. The specifics of these are listed below with story seeds for the search. Searching for clues takes a month studying old chronicles, maps, and covenant rolls, and a stress roll of Int + Organization Lore: Collem Leonis against an Ease Factor of 12. Devoting an entire season to the investigation grants a +3 modifier. Success means something is found, leading to one of the stories.''
''Franka’s Hermetic Nursery''
''An old covenant like Collem Leonis has turned out many apprentices over the centuries, so why is the library so very poor? How did the magi of old ever attain sufficient grounding in the arts to be able to teach without causing a deficiency in the pupil? Around 1195 one''
''of the old magi, in a fit of intricate plans only rational to herself, made off with all the introductory books on the Arts. If recovered, they add 325 Build Points to Collem Leonis’ library. Oddly enough, information about the authors has been deleted from all the texts, and there is some speculation as to whether any books were originally written by magi of Diedne before the Schism. The books have been wrapped in cloth and leather in a dry cave, and are well preserved.''
''Arcane Abilities''
''Apprentice’s Guide, Magic Theory Summa, Level 4, Quality 12 (24 Build Points)''
''Books on Arts''
''Growth and Repair, Creo Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) Perception, Intellego Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) Metamorphosis, Muto Summa, Level 6, Quality 14 (20 Build Points) Decay and Destruction, Perdo Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) Movements by Magic, Rego Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) Flowing Waters, Aquam Summa, Level 6, Quality 21 (27 Build Points) Blowing Winds, Auram Summa, Level 5, Quality 17 (22 Build Points) Beasts of the Black Forest, Animal Summa, Level 6, Quality 21 (27 Build Points) The Heart and the Hand, Corpus Summa, Level 6, Quality 16 (22 Build Points) Of Root, Trunk, and Branch, Herbam Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) Flames, Ignem Summa, Level 5, Quality 15 (20 Build Points) That Which is Seen or Heard, Imaginem Summa, Level 6, Quality 15 (21 Build Points) In the Mind of the Magus, Mentem Summa, Level 5, Quality 12 (17 Build Points) Two Feet on the Ground, Terram Summa, Level 6, Quality 18 (24 Build Points) This Intangible Art, Vim Summa, Level 6, Quality 15 (21 Build Points)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Winter Litter==

''One year the stoats produce a litter consisting entirely of albinos, but as it happens during winter the blanket of snow makes it exceedingly difficult to keep track of them. What to do? Will they all contain vis, and can the hunters manage so many animals on a berserk raid among the chickens? To make matters worse the snow lingers much longer into spring than it usually does, and a predator targets animals suspected of being magical. Investigation reveals that a very exotic snow leopard has come out of the portal. The leopard is phenomenally stealthy and also far craftier than any animal should be: it moves through the tops of closestanding trees, and squeezes through narrow cracks in the rocky hills. It sets false tracks to lead the hunters astray so they suddenly find themselves far away from the covenant when the leopard attacks, or led deep into a dangerous swamp close to sunset. Note that the Peripheral Charter requires the express permission of the resident Bjornaer magus to hunt any felines. Once the predator is dealt with, the challenge lies in preserving the vis source or harvesting it for best results. If several breeding pairs are killed the chances are that next year there will be no albino in the litters. The vis source may take years to recover. On the other hand, the many albinos may be problematic to contain and kill as they fight among themselves and spill the vis-laden blood.''

==Summary of Vis Sources==

''Source   Pawns   Build Points''
''Silver Spring  8 Vim per year  40 Albino Stoat  4 Animal per year 20 Blue stones of the Mine 7 Terram per year 35 Total   19   95''

|}
''Joachim’s Stolen Cache''
''The loss of these books was caused by outright theft in 1208 when the last autocrat, Joachim, vanished without a trace. At that time the only resident magi were so old, eccentric, and busy that they did not even notice that these valuable resources were missing. If these can be recovered the library of Collem Leonis gains an additional 367 Build points worth of books. Joachim had let himself be tempted by a minor demon who sows seeds of dissatisfaction with superiors. He used his position to acquire texts on Goetic arts and kept them hidden while he studied diabolic rites. Eventually, he decided to run away with valuable texts from the library and sell them in order to start a new and more luxurious life. He made contact with the merchant calling himself Ruprecht of Lübeck, who offered to buy the Hermetic books, and took the books out of the covenant, hiding them in a cave. Then he disappeared.''
''Arcane Abilities''
''Amadeus of Bonisagus, Pagan Nordic Beliefs, Faerie Lore Summa, Level 5, Quality 14 (29 Build Points)''
''Tacitus of Tremere, Of Details and Speed, Finesse Summa, Level 4, Quality 12 (24 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, Beasts of Nordic Myths, Magic Lore Summa, Level 5, Quality 14 (29 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, The Theories of Bonisagus, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, On the Subject of Labwork, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, Mercurian Influences on Hermetic Theory, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, Integration of Exotic magic, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points), Pamprepius of Flambeau, The Arcane Hammer, Penetration Summa, Level 5, Quality 11 (26 Build Points)''
''Books on the Arts''
''Amadeus of Bonisagus, Sharpening of the Senses, Intellego Summa, Level 12, Quality 14 (26 Build Points) Maximus of Bonisagus, The Art of Motion, Rego Summa, Level 14, Quality 12 (26 Build Points) Stratos of Tremere, Might of Aeolus Unleashed, Auram Summa, Level 13, Quality 15 (28 Build Points) Thuwald the Bold, The Ghostly Art, Mentem Summa, Level 16, Quality 13 (29 Build Points) Manlius of Tytalus, Wealth of the Deep, Terram''
''Summa, Level 17, Quality 13 (30 Build Points) Augusta of Bonisagus, The Purest of all Arts, Vim Summa, Level 14 Quality 16 (30 Build Points)''
''Diabolical Books''
''The Goetic Arts and how to learn them are described in Realms of Power: The Infernal, pages 114–119, and 126. They can be learned as Supernatural Abilities (as described in ArM5, page 166) by anybody, even the unGifted, provided that the character is touched by the Infernal. This may be as little as a single Warping point from an Infernal source. Note that Goetic Arts follow the Art progression scale, and that since Hedge Magic was published this mechanic has been referred to as Accelerated Abilities.''
''Author unknown, Howls from the Deep, Goetic Summoning Summa, Level 15, Quality 15 (30 Build Points) Author unknown, Shackles in the Dark, Goetic Binding Summa, Level 15, Quality 15 (30 Build Points)''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Mischievous Kobold==

''The covenfolk of Collem Leonis who venture into the mine know of the old kobold and fear him, as all miners have been wary of his kin throughout history. If treated with respect and offered small things like food, beer, or simply requests for his permission, he merely plays innocent tricks, moving things around and making odd sounds in the dark. Should a miner plead sincerely for his help out loud the kobold may intervene. If the old traditions are blatantly disregarded, or the creature subjected to abuse, he harasses the culprits by leading them off into dangerous tunnels with illusions, stealing their equipment, or even weakening the rock to the point of a cave-in. Many a vis harvest crosses paths with the kobold, and more than a few have ended in close calls or full-scale disasters.''

==Story Seed: Apprentice’s Lofty Cave==

''The covenant chronicles mention that Franka of Bjornaer, having obtained only preliminary permission from the Council, collected a set of texts suitable for apprentices in order to optimize the learning process. She secretly intended to make this project only useful to Bjornaer apprentices with Heartbeasts compatible with her own, which was an owl. Her personal diary entries point toward one of the peaks defined as off-limits to all other than Bjornaer magi. Getting to the cave is challenging, as it is accessible only by flying and has an entrance no larger than a large bird. The founding maga Adler, who in her Final Twilight centuries ago took the form of her eagle Heartbeast as a Great Beast, takes a strong interest in this peak. She appears as a very large (Size –1) and near-perfect specimen of an eagle, with only Cunning but a Perception of +5, and a Magic Might of 30. If Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults is available refer to page 41 for the Eagle of Virtue . Adler makes things difficult for characters climbing the mountain, especially if they are not Bjornaer magi, but she stays hidden, using appropriate powers to cause trouble, unless a Bjornaer maga seeks her out with appropriate respect.''

==Story Seed: Sins of the Predecessor==

''At the last moment, Joachim repented, and went to the cave to set things right. He planned to bind the demon, destroy the Goetic books, and bring the Hermetic books back to the covenant. Joachim believed that he could bind the demon into a gold ring, then drop the ring into a lake, ensuring that the demon would never be found. Unfortunately for Joachim, he did not realize that the demon could use all of its powers while bound, and the demon, in a rage, killed him. He collapsed, in the cave, still gripping the ring. Holding an item with a bound demon gives a person or object the Magic Resistance of the demon, so Joachim’s corpse currently has Magic Resistance, one reason why it has not been found. The demon can communicate from the ring, and use its powers to help its wearer while it tries to corrupt him. It cannot, however, leave the ring, or communicate over a long distance, and it has been forced to wait. Someone from the area stumbles upon the cave while hunting, and finds the ring. The demon goads him into dreadful actions, which the player characters must deal with. Following his trail leads back to the cave, which contains the books and letters to Joachim from Ruprecht, concerning the purchase of the books. Erich the spy (see earlier) knows more about Ruprecht, but may be reluctant to share the information.''

|}
''The Tree House''
''The nature-oriented Bjornaer magus Holzstein, from the second generation of magi at Collem Leonis, built himself a sanctum away from the covenant’s main site. Inside a small Magical regio he found an aura as strong as the main site (Magic aura 5), and even safer due to its hidden nature. The tether of the regio is a huge magical oak, inside and around which he built his lab. He reached an agreement with a wood spirit named Agnes, and cultivated a yew tree as Collem Leonis’ only Corpus vis source. The lab was inherited by his filii, but fell into disuse as they retreated to Crintera at the onset of the Schism War, and has been forgotten since then.''
''Holzstein’s Laboratory''
''Holzstein’s laboratory is built inside a large oak tree, encompassing a small regio inside it for extra space. Agnes the forest spirit (see nearby) is bound to the laboratory. The laboratory is worth 110 Build Points. Names added to Sanctum marker: None''
''Characteristics: Size +3(2), General Quality –3, Safety +1, Health + 1, Refinement 0, Upkeep –1, Warping +1, Aesthetics +2 Virtues and Flaws: Greater Feature (tree), Lesser Guardian (Agnes), Pot Plants, Spacious, Idyllic Surroundings, Dedicated Building, Regio; Greater Focus (tree), Decaying, Dirty, Infested, Missing Equipment (Texts), Missing Ingredients (Ignem, Terram) Specializations: Perdo +3, Rego +1; Herbam +11 Personality Traits: None Features: Magical oak Magic Items: None Notes: All Lab Totals using Ignem and Terram are currently halved due to lack of ingredients. All activities concerning Texts are impossible due to lack of equipment.''
''Vis Source: The Man in the Woods''
''This strangely shaped yew tree looks like a person. Two trunks form his legs, a mass of tangled branches constitute his body, a stump where the top snapped off long ago has facial features, and his arms are made up of long branches with smaller growths only where his talon-like fingers reach out. Golden resin spills out from cracks, which can be harvested at the end of each season for 2 pawns of Corpus vis each time. The Man in the Woods is worth 40 Build Points.''
''The Armoire of Excess''
''The device is a large, intricately carved cabinet of flawless walnut wood, a work of art in itself. It has been prepared with 10 paws of vis, 6 of which are used for the single effect listed here. The armoire is worth 22 Build Points. This item has not been lost, exactly. Rather, something became stuck between one of the doors and its frame, making it impossible to open. As the two doors must be opened together to activate the magic, it can no longer be used. This happened decades ago; the servants were too scared of breaking the item to try to fix it, and the magi were too wrapped up in their own concerns. The cabinet is now used to store other things, and none of the current servants even remember what it used to do. The covenant records reveal the existence of this item, and Intellego Vim is the fastest way to find it, once the magi know that they should be looking.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|
''Agnes, Guardian Spirit Magic Might: 10 (Herbam) Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre 0, Com +1, Str –1, Sta +3, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: –1 Age: Not applicable (15) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Spirit; Greater Immunity (Perdo Vim), Ways of the Forest; Improved Characteristics, Tough, Unaffected by the Gift; Bound to Magic, Magical Air (free flaw); Ability Block (Logic), Ability Block (Martial), Anchored to the Forest, Generous, Incomprehensible, Small Frame Qualities and Inferiorities: Focus Power (x2), Greater Power (x1); Improved Powers Personality Traits: Generous +3, Forest Lover +3, Whimsical +2, Brave –1 Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Soak: +6 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Area Lore: Sauerland 3 (geography), Awareness 3 (searching), Concentration 3 (spirit powers), Finesse 4 (Herbam), Forest Lore 3 (native forest), High German 5 (magi), Latin 1 (Hermetic), Leadership 2 (inspiration), Magic Lore 2 (creatures), Organization Lore: Covenant of Collem Leonis 3 (history), Penetration 4 (Herbam), Stealth 5 (natural areas) Powers: Further details of powers can be found in Realms of Power: Magic, pages 38–39 and 102 Donning the Corporeal Veil, 0 points, Init –1, Herbam: Agnes can create a corporeal, humanoid body made of wood. Her flesh is as''
''tough as old oak, yet flexible like a human’s; her blood is a thick sap. The power must be reactivated at each sunrise and sunset and the body is subject to aging, deprivation and so on. To maintain her youthful appearance Agnes reforms a completely new body at least once per month. If the body is killed, Agnes is destroyed, but she can dissolve the body at will, and does so if in danger. (Design: Greater power) Crafter of Herbam, 1 point per magnitude, Init 1– [mag], Herbam: Duplicates any Hermetic Creo Herbam effect up to level 25. (Design: Focus Power, 3 mastery points spent to increase maximum level, 1 mastery point spent to increase Init) Master of Herbam, 1 point per magnitude, Init – [mag], Herbam: Duplicates any Hermetic Rego, or Muto Herbam effect up to level 20. (Design: Focus Power, 2 mastery points spent to increase maximum level) Equipment: Simple dress in colors of the forest at the time, woven leather belt, bronze sickle Encumbrance: 0 (0) Vis: 2 pawns of Herbam vis in leaves in hair Appearance: Agnes appears as a young, healthylooking woman with golden, almond shaped eyes and dark, curly hair with oak leaves growing in it.''
''Agnes is a minor forest spirit who was bound voluntarily to Holzstein’s laboratory and helped him in his day. She has been lonely since the laboratory was abandoned, but has taken adequate care of the sanctum. She is suspicious of intruders after so long, but if treated with respect and kindness she will happily bond with a new master.''

==Story Seed: Lost Laboratory==

''The Man in the Woods was a source of Corpus vis for the covenant, and is recorded, along with Holzstein’s remote laboratory, and its transfer to his descendants. Research in the records is enough to reveal the general location, but not details of how to enter the regio, nor of what lies within. A research roll that beats an Ease Factor of 15 hints that there was some sort of allied spirit, but the records have no details on Agnes. She initially uses her powers to dissuade characters from entering, although she avoids harming, much less killing, them. If she is treated well and politely, she can easily be talked around. If not, collecting the vis is difficult, and the laboratory cannot be used.''

|}
''Silverware of the Wastrel''
''CrTe 53 Pen 0, 6/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group As an exercise in the form of Terram, the founding magus Amadeus of Bonisagus enchanted an invested device highly useful for generations to come. Unfortunately, during the autumn of his life he had a tendency toward excess. The armoire creates fine silverware for a banquet setting for 50 people, including plates, bowls, goblets, candlesticks, pitchers, and serving dishes. After the meal, servants simply empty the entire table onto the midden heap, and come sunset all the silverware disappears. The device is activated simply by twisting the handles of the double cabinet doors and opening them simultaneously. Many thieves have been sorely disappointed after stealing from the table. The use of this device has given rise to stories about the magi being so rich that they never ate off the same silver plate twice, which is sort of true. Amadeus notes with humor that he does not fear lycanthropes will infiltrate the covenant, at least not at mealtimes. If using the economic system of Covenants, page 56–71, this device results in cost savings equal to two laborers. (Effect: Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Group +1 Size +1 Intricacy; Modifications +3 uses per day)''
''A New Vis Source''
''Recently a new source of Vim vis has sprung up in the hills. It is fairly easy to find for any magus actively searching the woods using Intellego Vim. The source is worth 35 Build Points.''
''Portal of Living Wood''
''Winding through the heavily forested hills a faint path ends where two trees with intertwining branches form a portal across the path. Despite appearances, this does not appear to be a regio entrance. Every autumn the hardening sap can be collected for 7 pawns of Vim vis.''
''A Missing Bookcase''
''During the Winter years of Collem Leonis, when the library was still filled to the brink with books and rolled up scrolls, the slightly absentminded Ferra attempted to be helpful and had a few grogs rearrange the chaotic mess. In the process a cabinet full of little-used texts on various spell masteries was removed from the library to a secure location in a storage room. When Ferra''
''returned from her long and arduous Twillight, she had completely forgotten about this, and the room had been cluttered with crates in the meantime. The covenant records mention the rearrangement, and it is possible to deduce that some spell mastery texts went missing at that point. As the texts themselves are not magical, they can best be found by searching the covenant. The recovered texts are as follows and sum to 101 Build Points. Helveticus of Flambeau, Scourge of the Infernal, Demon’s Eternal Oblivion Mastery Summa, Level 3, Quality 15 (24 Build Points) Maris of Flambeau, Flambeau’s Legacy, Pilum of Fire Mastery Summa, Level 4, Quality 16 (28 Build Points) Manlius of Tytalus, A Transparent State, Veil of Invisibility Mastery Summa, Level 2, Quality 15 (21 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, Arcane Travel, Piercing the Magical Veil Mastery Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points) Amadeus of Bonisagus, Fortress of the Home, Aegis of the Hearth Mastery Tractatus, Quality 14 (14 Build Points)''

==The Covenant in Play==

''A Second Spring covenant features many elements similar to a Spring setting: the magi are young, resources are scarce, and relationships need to be forged. However, the covenant it is built on a decaying shell and there is much immediate potential in finding lost treasure and knowledge and reforging ties all but forgotten.''

==Covenant Themes==

''Collem Leonis’ main theme is of an old and once-powerful place with a sense of purpose and a common cause for the magi to work together on. Metaphorically speaking, the young magi find themselves on the parapet of a ruined tower, gazing over a land of possibilities and great wonder. On the horizon loom other powers, with the potential to become allies, enemies, rivals, or possibly spell doom. If the magi put too much emphasis on rebuilding relationships. the hall falls to ruin and they have nowhere to retreat if they meet stiff opposi''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: Impossible Thefts==

''After the armoire has been found and brought back into use, someone important visits the covenant. When the meal is served, he turns red with anger and accuses the covenant of theft. It seems that someone sold him “this plate”, and then it was stolen from him in the night. When he complained about this, he found a number of other people who had suffered from the same sort of crime, and they concluded that the criminals were selling the plate, and similar silverware, and then stealing it back. The magi should quickly work out what was actually happening, but the crimes happened before they rediscovered the armoire. Who was using it for his own purposes? And what will the magi need to do to avoid taking the blame?''

==Story Seed: A Simple Request==

''Herr Vorderhagen informs the magi that the count of Mark is coming to visit, and asks to borrow their silverware for the necessary banquets. The messenger assures the magi that he will only keep the silver for a week. Refusing causes great problems, as Herr Vorderhagen is deeply insulted by the apparent lack of trust. Of course, the silver simply cannot be lent out for a week. What do the characters do?''

==Story Seed: Agents Provocateurs==

''As winter is setting in, reports come in of a band of mounted raiders pillaging along the southern border of the count of Mark’s lands, relatively close to the covenant’s domain. Scouts discover it to be made up of well-organized mercenaries who are known to have served the archbishop. They can be tracked to a fortified camp just across the border in the county of Berg, where they meet with many more of their kind. Is this an attack by the archbishop on the count of Mark, an attempt to provoke open war between them, or a scheme to draw the magi into taking an active part? The magi can find out the truth by cleverly working the courts of the respective leaders over the winter using spies and intrigue. Alternatively, they can daringly infiltrate the raider camp and try to find documents or other evidence, or kidnap the raider leader for interrogation.''

==Story Seed: The Church Lands==

''Count Adolph of Mark is losing in an open conflict with the Archbishop’s forces near Dortmund, and he enlists the help of Collem Leonis. Negotiating a truce is a viable solution, but Count Adolph vastly prefers to negotiate from a position of power, so any magical aid to his troops is most welcome. Archbishop Engelbert I demands lands near Dortmund, but this is a threat to the further prosperity of the free city, and it weakens the Count of Mark considerably in this area. Not only has he recently granted the city a free charter, he stands to lose much potential trade with the city should the archbishopric annex this land. The archbishop is willing to settle for an insignificant valley with untamed land bordering the county of Berg, in the southern part of the county of Mark. Count Adolph is seriously considering accepting this deal, but is it a coincidence that this land is due south of Collem Leonis’ domain? The area is to be granted to a monastic order who will tame and cultivate the land and build an abbey. The archbishop sends his trusted lieutenant Max von Beiderbecke to finalize the deal with his full authority — perhaps the magi can manipulate him? He may want power, or need supernatural help with a family problem, a mysterious illness, or a dangerous creature. For further challenges the council or burghers in Dortmund offer the count of Mark a tidy sum to add the disputed area to the lands of the free imperial city of Dortmund. This increases the power of the city, and perhaps the archbishop would be reluctant to annex lands under imperial protection?''

==Story Seed: The Enemy of My Enemy==

''The magi learn of a sinister plot against the archbishop by his cousin Count Frederick of Isenberg, but their main informant, Erich the spy, also knows that Frederick is connected with the diabolist organization in Cologne he discovered years before. No matter how aggressive the archbishop, it surely cannot be good to allow a diabolist to assassinate him. As the archbishop sets off to confront Frederick with charges of corruption at an abbey in Essen, do the magi dare act? Do they save their enemy and prolong his struggles against the count of Mark, possibly threatening the covenant’s existence? Or do they allow a diabolist nobleman to murder his own cousin and eliminate a powerful enemy, and risk even darker plots in the future?''

==Story Seed: Old Alliances==

''Ferra calls the younger magi to the council chamber after receiving a letter from a Redcap, and tells them they must uphold old agreements. There are several possibilities for what is demanded under the terms of these contracts. Known Wilderist hardliner Urgen chooses to make the hills into a textbook example of preservationist actions. The moderate Harmonist Prima Falke asks the resident Bjornaer magus to work more closely with the mundane relations in order to showcase her strategy. A message arrives from Waddenzee announcing that a raiding party to the coast of Norway discovered a unique creature they were asked long ago to keep a look-out for. Whatever the case may be, the young generation needs to work together and muster the resources of Collem Leonis in order to keep their part of agreements so old that barely anybody remembers the reasons or the favors done which must now be repaid.''

==Story Seed: The Army of King Gorm==

''Following a hunting season of unusually abundant magical and faerie game, which was easy to catch and in retrospect seems to have been fleeing a greater threat, Gorm the mighty Norse warrior arrives through the portal with his army. This is a powerful faerie lord playing the part of a king of the northmen who tells the magi of Collem Leonis that he is here to make good on his promises. After the initial confusion it seems a previous generation of Collem Leonis magi made a deal with Gorm by which he promised to help them for a year and a day in a battle which is by now long gone and also forgotten — although not by him. He asks Collem Leonis to name their enemy and shows a formidable knowledge of the current political situation. He assumes that the archbishop of Cologne is to be stopped in his campaign of conquest, and will not take no for an answer. However he knows nothing of magi or the Order of Hermes, and believes any magus he meets speaks for Collem Leonis. A diplomatic solution is better for the covenant than actually fighting with Gorm’s army, and a clever negotiator can convince the faerie to help in less overt and militaristic ways. This seed is appropriate for player magi based in any of the Rhine Tribunal’s covenants, as visitors can witness this situation. Will they retreat at once to avoid getting caught up in this mess, do they stay on to see whether Collem Leonis uses this opportunity, or even try to control Gorm’s army to their own ends? Magi hostile to Collem Leonis are in a prime position to remove one of their own enemies while framing Collem Leonis for the whole affair. Gorm can alter the appearance of his followers to look less like Norse warriors from several centuries ago and more like current, local forces, and he wears any heraldry they ask him to, acting out any identity they choose. Cunning plans, deception, and show of force may deter any enemies or rivals who are currently engaging in plots or campaigns that the covenant would like to disrupt without taking direct action themselves.''

|}
''tion. Too much emphasis on their home allows other forces to monopolize the area, and the covenant may be left with nothing. The uncontrolled portals tie the covenant in to the unexplored frontier of Scandinavia, good for exploring the lands, searching for the Order of Odin or other traditions, hunting for vis or magical beasts, and researching the regiones themselves. In the local area the expansion of the mundane population creates potential for more interaction with the nobility, the church, and the guilds of bustling towns. At the same time, the forgotten covenant steps from the mists of time into a struggle to claim a place and a purpose among the current Rhine covenants, most of which are much younger but more powerful.''

==Player Character Roles at Collem Leonis==

''All the young magi at Collem Leonis are appropriate as player characters, but Ferra is best kept as a troupe-controlled advisor. She is deliberately designed to intervene little, but readily offer advice as a kind grandmother would, to ensure the young generation play the most active parts in stories. In a saga the players may as well create their own magi, perhaps taking elements from the four presented to tailor them to the themes and hooks of Collem Leonis, create backgrounds to tie them together with the history and Hermetic environment, and ensure they have the abilities to handle events unfurling around the covenant. At a minimum, interest in and interaction with both the portals to Nordic lands and the growing cities and workings of nobility and clergy are essential for Collem Leonis to be used as designed.''
''Suggested Storylines''
''In the early years of Collem Leonis’ rebirth the magi are most likely busy reclaiming lost resources, developing income sources, and working on relations with the other covenants. While proactive research of the mystical portals is likely, any great threats should be decades away, due largely to the sacrifice of Scipio of Flambeau. Note that investigating''
''lesser portal events or embarking on minor expeditions is one way to go about both resource gathering and developing relations with covenants such as Waddenzee and Heorot.''
''Rebuilding Collem Leonis''
''The lost resources have been grouped together depending on how and when they were lost, and how they can be recovered.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Moving Collem Leonis to Other Tribunals==

''While the portals could link any part of Mythic Europe to any other, part of the theme of the covenant is interaction with other covenants in the same Tribunal that have an interest in the same unknown region, so it works best in a frontier Tribunal. Novgorod has plenty of frontier, to the east as well as Scandinavia. The Levant and Thebes have the middle east as frontier, although none of the covenants described in The Sundered Eagle have these interests. The Roman, Iberian, and Provencal Tribunals are close enough to the northern parts of Africa to classify as frontiers as well. Leaving the Rhine Tribunal means the ties to Gilds no longer apply, and all Gild related Virtues are void, meaning the magi need a slight re-design due to having less training.''

|}

==Lindorm of Jotunheim==

''Magic Might: 30 (Animal) Characteristics: Int –1, Per –1, Pre –6, Com –6, Str +22, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik –12 Size: +13 Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal; Magical Monster; Improved Characteristics (x6); Poor Communication (x2), Poor Presence Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic (x12), Greater Power* (x4); Monstrous Appearance, Reduced Communication, Reduced Presence; Minor Flaw (Poor Presence), Reduced Might (x4) *) Blood of Venom 50 levels, Breath of Venom 70 levels, Magical Senses 80 levels Mundane Qualities and Inferiorities: Grapple, Keen Sense of Smell, Large Teeth, Loathsome Appearance, Spiny, Tough Hide, Thick Scales, Sharp Ears, Slippery, Venomous Personality Traits: Lindorm +3, Hungry for Magic +3, Angry +3 Reputations: Lethal and venomous 5 (Local, in Nordic cultures only) Combat: Grapple: Init –12, Attack +13, Defense –4, Damage +22 Large Teeth: Init –12, Attack +18, Defense –4, Damage +25 and poison (see Power: Venomous) Soak: +17 (But see Power: Scales later) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0/0 –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–18), –3 (19-36), –5 (3754), Incapacitated (55-72), Dead (73+) Abilities: Awareness 5 (hearing), Brawl 6+2 (bite), Penetration 5 (blood), Survival 3 (forest), Swim 4 (speed) Powers: Blood of Venom, 0 points, always on, Animal. The lindorm’s blood is magically transformed into a sticky, corrosive venom as it leaves its body, so any grievous wound risks hurting the attacker as well. Any time a Medium or worse wound is inflicted on the lindorm the attacker must roll a Qik–Enc stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 for a Medium Wound, 12 for a Heavy Wound, or 15 for an Incapacitating Wound or worse. Other targets close by make stress rolls of Qik–Enc against a set Ease Factor of 9. Unsuccessful characters suffer +25 damage from the corrosive venom. The venom continues to inflict damage every round, at a cumulative –1 damage and also –1 Protection. Note that armor can’t have its Protection reduced below 0. This goes on until either the damage roll drops to 0, the armor is removed, the poison is removed, or two minutes have passed. Breath of Venom, 1 point, Init –14, Aquam. The lindorm may forego a bite attack and instead spew forth a sticky, venomous liquid on a target within 15 paces. The attack hits the''
''target automatically and if it Penetrates does +25 damage. The venom may spill onto nearby targets (such as other fighters in a group) for +12 damage unless they succeed in Qik–Enc roll versus an Ease Factor of 9. Constriction (non-magical): The lindorm can “constrict” targets of lower Size than itself, and can even affect multiple opponents simultaneously provided that the sum of their Sizes does not exceed +7. Targets must be successfully grappled one at a time, using the rules for “Non-Lethal Combat”, ArM5, page 174. Victims suffer Deprivation from air as long as they are constricted, ArM5, page 180. For targets of Size +2 or lower, the lindorm actually rolls over them, trapping them under its body, as they are too small for it to wrap around them effectively. Magical Senses, 0 points, always on, Vim. The lindorm’s supernatural sense of smell can find any auras, vis, enchanted devices, creatures with Might, or Gifted people within a mile. It is drawn to then in order to consume the vis, rest in the aura, fight rival beasts, or capture Gifted individuals. Scales (non-magical): The lindorm’s Soak of +17 represents the normal, average number, used for opponents in melee and for normal magical attacks. Against specially targeted attacks and heroic actions intent on hitting the soft underbelly its Soak is only +10. Such actions are left to the storyguide’s discretion but Finesse or Athletics rolls versus an Ease Factor of 12 are suggested for this. If the lindorm fortifies itself and exposes only the hardest, spiny scales, its Soak is increased to +25. This works well against massed archery attacks. Venomous (non-magical): The poisonous nature of the lindorm affects most natural traits as well. If the Attack Advantage of a bite exceeds the target’s Protection (not his Soak), he suffers a Light wound. Any combat Botch in melee also inflicts such a wound, as the target injures himself on a venomous spine. Vis: The lindorm’s heart is the source of the venom, and it holds 4 pawns of Perdo vis. The lindorm’s remaining body holds 2 pawns of Animal vis. It may have consumed any amount and type of vis during its rampage, which can be extracted from its stomach. Appearance: The lindorm is an enormous serpent with angry red eyes and a mouth full of teeth the size of greatswords. The spiny ridges are a dull, dark-green, almost black, color, the smooth scales shine in bright green hues in the light, and the softer underbelly is wrinkled and a bilious green-yellow color. It measures about 10 feet in diameter and almost 400 feet in length.''
''Story seeds concerning the rediscovery of lost resources are found earlier, in the section Hidden Resources. There are also opportunities to create new sources of income. As the Woodshed of Plenty can potentially produce as much wood as can be physically removed through the door, day and night, the real limit is transporting it to buyers and only selling in such small quantities as to ensure it is used before disappearing. The mine was in use at one point, and with the help of Ferra even a handful of low magnitude spells can substitute for a large scale mundane operation. As no trees ever need to be felled for firewood, a substantial lumber business can be established in little time. If the magi rely on mundane laborers, there are the guilds of Dortmund to think about. If the magi hire workers to mine metals, log wood, hunt game for meat and pelts, or craft items from the materials produced, the workforce is most likely recruited in or around Dortmund. The guilds have rules to be followed and taxes to be paid, and do not react mildly to being circumvented or ignored. If no local workforce is used, and the guilds are left in the dark, it is difficult to sell all the raw materials and manufactured goods without drawing suspicion, so markets further away than Dortmund need to be considered.''
''Counts and Bishops''
''The volatile power struggles between influential noblemen and the archbishop is a treasure trove of stories about the survival of the covenant as well as skirting the Code. Both the archbishop and the count of Mark know that wizards exist and of the Order of Hermes, as well as ways to contact someone in case they need to file a grievance. Secrecy is not an issue in relation to the leaders, but any situation drawing unwanted attention and leading to intervention by a military force or the Church leads to charges of meddling with the mundanes or bringing ruin to the Order. Initially, the archbishop does not know of the existence of the secluded hunting lodge or that it contains wizards, only that the area is a potentially valuable domain to add to his own. Count Adolph I suspects that the wizards can perform great feats of magic, but he prefers to keep them hidden until a critical moment, and instead tries to have them work discreetly behind the scenes.''
''Reforging Hermetic Relations''
''With the next Tribunal as soon as 1221, and the one held in advance of the Grand Tribunal in 1228, Collem Leonis is sure to be involved in Hermetic politics whether the magi want to be or not. Old enmities or poorly maintained alliances result in at least personal confrontations or even legal action, when aggrieved magi attempt to hold Collem Leonis’ magi responsible for the actions of their parens. The burning issues in these years include Prima Murion of Bonisagus’ desire for action against the Order of Odin, Daria la Gris of Triamore’s plot for forming the Lotharingian Tribunal, and the growing rift between the Harmonist and Wilderist factions of House Bjornaer.''
''Mystical Portals''
''The portals constantly affect the daily life of the magi. Because predicting events is difficult and imprecise, the magi should perpetually plan for emergencies or defensive measures. Minor portal openings or careful forays into the regiones occur frequently, but the really big events are best saved for a more established covenant, so the magi have a fighting chance.''

==Collem Leonis as a Background Covenant==

''If playing a saga where Collem Leonis suddenly appears on stage as an old covenant reborn the player magi have ample opportunity to interact with them. A Spring covenant — even if it is Second Spring — lacks resources, expertise, and manpower. This opens up missions of trade and diplomacy. There may also be old forgotten lore there to interest other magi. Old alliances and enmities are rekindled, but their new council means new negotiations. Collem Leonis’ mundane relations are of interest to Triamore especially, given its proximity. Finally the older generations’ research into the Nordic lands is of interest to Heorot, Waddenzee, and Oculus Septentrionalis, while at the same time interfering with their spheres of interest. Collem Leonis can also draw other covenants into its story as it follows the lines described earlier, and the player characters can be drawn in as allies, enemies, or even as visitors who just happen to be present when something interesting happens.''
{|style="border-style: solid; border-width: 3px; border-color: chocolate"
|style="padding-left: 7px; padding-right: 7px"|

==Story Seed: The Ravens Fly Again==

''Scouts observe a large flock of ravens that seem to appear out of nowhere over the woods moving toward Dortmund, and disappear just as the first raven crosses the edge of the city. In a saga set in Collem Leonis the player magi have a chance to do research or ask the old resident maga. Ferra claims from the first moment that this is a bad omen, that it has happened before, and it spelled great disaster. It was over a century ago, so she can offer no more detail, but the Collem Leonis chronicles can. Outside magi are less privileged. While they may recognize the ravens as an ill omen, only a visit to Collem Leonis yields advance warning before disaster strikes. Successful research indicates that this is a warning of an imminent attack of a lindorm who seeks magical resources to consume and hoard. The most recent occurrence was actually quite recent, while Ferra was in Twilight, and Scipio of the previous generation went to stop it. Since no lindorm attacked he must have been successful, but he did not return. The swarming ravens mark the birth of the beast from the very earth, and their movements predict the path of its coming rampage. How long before the beast attacks the old texts cannot say, so perhaps the magi should mount a pre-emptive strike and kill the worm before it is fully grown? This means venturing into its domain inside the Magical regio and facing great danger. The old texts claim it is drawn to valuable magical resources, but is unclear if this is vis, Gifted children, a regio entrance, or something else entirely. Scouts sent to observe it may try to judge how much time will pass before the lindorm bursts forth from the portal, provided they have some knowledge of magical beasts. The magi may have anywhere from a single season to several years to prepare, as appropriate for the saga. Magi from outside Collem Leonis are unlikely to know of the lindorm before it enters the mundane realm, but once it does stories about interaction with the magi of Collem Leonis are appropriate. With little change to the story the ravens can as easily show a path to a location other than Dortmund, be it one of the neighboring covenants or a major mundane settlement of interest to one of them. Even once it is on the move, the lindorm may stop along the way to consume vis found at sites or in animals caught, and burrow down to digest it, even for months at a time, allowing the magi more time for preparation as the lindorm grows ever larger. The lindorm has skin impervious to swords and spears save for its softer underbelly, can crush even the mightiest warriors with its sheer weight or rend then with its fangs, spews lethal venom, has corrosive blood, and is large enough to encircle a castle. Having this monster lay siege to the covenant seriously hampers daily activities, and if it follows the path of the ravens to Dortmund the collateral damage and unwanted attention is hard to remedy.''

|}
===Attribution===
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
