
[|
''La Jardin stands nestled in the vineyards of the Cahors district, on a rocky bluff a day’s journey south of that city. From the main road, one can see an impressive red brick structure with a copper dome, and a golden brick tower, rising above the ancient walls of a crumbling Visigothic fortress. Those traveling up the winding road that leads to the covenant soon cross an ancient series of defensive earth ramparts, now forming terraces for vine trellises rich with the great black grapes of the region. Approaching through the vineyards, the visitor arrives at Belfort du Quercy, a small village of prosperous peasants that stands on the slopes a mile from the Toulouse – Cahors road. A sleepy collection of well built cottages, its tiny chapel of impressive red brick testifies to the wealth the grape has brought. Traveling onwards up the ridge, the visitor enters through what were once the gates of the fort, to find the covenant itself. The covenant comprises a collection of buildings clustered around the domed library and tower, and a beautifully laid out landscape of flowers, pools, rocks and shadegiving trees: a hermetic garden, in the center of which stands the tower, home to the famed chatelaine Joia du Lua (Occitan for “Jewel of the Moon”). Now over sixty summers old, she uses her magic to ensure she is still as beautiful as the youngest maiden. Her years have given her great wisdom as well as more lovers and temporal influence than any other of the great patronesses of the troubadours. Jardin is an insular, inward looking covenant, where by custom women are rulers and men (in theory) courteous subordinates. A constant stream of visitors — musicians, poets, knights errant and great nobles among them — bring adventure constantly to the covenant, as they glimpse their Heart’s Desire, and realize the curse they have invoked upon themselves. Sometimes the magi are forced to use all their talents to prevent inadvertent repercussions in the mundane world.''

==History==

''The Visigoths built a fort here, but it soon lay abandoned to the southern winds and slowly the walls crumbled. Eventually a small hamlet grew up on the slopes. In 1130 a young knight built a manor, and under the benign lordship of the Montdumerc family the hamlet grew in to the prosperous village of Belfort du Quercy. Joia Montdumerc was born here to noble''
''parents. When her father fell in a baronial war in 1163 it was her mother Audiarda who came to rule these lands. Audardia engaged a tutor for her daughters, Humbert de Cavirac. Humbert was a magus of House Jerbiton, and took the position because he realized Joia possessed The Gift, and that the site was magically potent. Hence the covenant of Belfort (today renamed ‘Jardin’) was founded in 1164, composed of just Humbert and his young apprentice, Joia. Humbert soon became the lover of Joia’s mother Audiarda, and the two daughters grew up in the nascent covenant. Soon afterwards a Bjornaer magus, Androcles, arrived. Befriending the Jerbiton, he became the second magus resident, also taking an apprentice, the young Lexora. Joia was trained by Humbert to be a Mentem specialist in his image, but Androcles’ tales of the magical gardens of Herisson (see Legends of Hermes) intrigued her and led her to develop a strong interest in the vineyards on which the covenant’s prosperity depends. She developed some skill in the crafts of gardening and winemaking. Her plan to construct the Garden of Love sung of by the troubadours became an obsession, and after the Final Twilight of Humbert and death of Androcles her romantic pursuit of beauty led to the renaming of the covenant, now called Jardin. Joia has completely changed the nature of the covenant in attempting to create the mythical Garden of Love of the troubadours within''

==The Legend of Jardin==

''Most in the Tribunal know of Jardin by reputation, as a place of strange customs, odd magi, and traditional ways, and some say one of the customs is an evil one. Even the Redcaps prefer not to tarry too long, for it is rumored that to come here and stay three nights ensures one will glimpse one’s heart’s true desire. It is said that hidden with the gardens are entrances to the fabled Garden of Love,''
''which Andreas Capellanus has hinted at in his writings. The mysteries of that regio are so profound and dangerous that many a brave maga has set out to explore her heart, never to return. Some are intrigued and seek out the place, but many magi have little interest in such things. The legends are wrong, but the truth is even stranger.''
''Tribunal: Provence Year Founded: 1164 Season: Summer Aura: 4 (Faerie) Symbol: A single rose in bloom''

|]
''the walls. By creating the myth as a physical place, and encouraging troubadours to popularize the idea of Romantic Love and the secret Garden of Love, Joia has managed to change the once Magical aura of the place to Faerie, and now the place has become the haunt of wild and dangerous faeries, although they are, so far at least, largely confined to the garden regio. Joia’s actions have deeply divided the magi, and led to a state of tension that continues to this day. With the death of Audiarda in 1198 it was Joia’s sister Esquiva who took on the role of chatelaine of Belfort. She had married a wealthy local merchant, Ramundus, in her twenties. Both became fully involved with the life of the covenant, doing all they could to protect and support it. Ramundus worked hard to establish the trade in black wine and improve the yields of the vineyards, and Joia assisted subtly by magic. Ramundus and Esquiva had one child, again a daughter, born in 1189 and named Serena. It is Serena who perhaps poses the greatest danger to the covenant, for while she serves as autocrat faithfully, she deeply resents her position as a servant, and wishes to re-establish herself in her rightful role as chatelaine. However a further threat comes from the lioness Bjornaer Lexora, who seeks to restore the sacred magical Bjornaer Mystery site that she believes Joia’s faerie meddling has corrupted.''

==Boons & Hooks==

''Autocephalous (Major Boon): The covenant benefits from the traditions of the County of Toulouse and owes fealty to no noble but Serena. This independence from the feudal system is typical of the region. Aura (Minor Boon): The aura of the covenant is four, and extends over the whole fortress. It is not high enough to cause Warping in the grogs and covenfolk residents. Edifice (Minor Boon) x2: These virtues represent the impressive library and tower within the covenant. Loyal Covenfolk (Minor Boon): The grogs of Jardin are in the main local to the lo''
''cation and fiercely loyal to the covenant. They are generally confused by, and attempt to remain above, the internal squabbles of the magi. Prestige (Minor Boon): While the Tribunal generally pays little heed to the covenant, it is famous among troubadours for the hospitality and patronage offered, and is regarded with affection by many Occitan speaking nobles of romantic inclination. If the covenant was ever threatened, they may speak out or plot a defense. Jardin has a reputation of 3 among troubadours (and local nobility). Vivid Environment (Minor Boon): Even before the aura was corrupted to Faerie the covenant was a place of incredible beauty, and now the gardening has turned it into a lush sensual paradise, a place of incredible beauty.''

[|

==Covenant Summary==

''Jardin was built with a budget of 1466 Build Points, distributed as described below.''
''Resource   Build Points Enchanted Device  [15 points] Laboratories   [170 points] Laboratory Texts  [333 points] Library   [722 points] Money   [30 points] Specialists and Teachers [39 points] Vis Sources and Stocks  [157 points] Total   [1,466 points]''

==Joia du Lua of House Jerbiton==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre +5, Com +2, Str –2, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: –1 Age: 68 (50) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 5 (6) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Maga; Gentle Gift; Affinity with Charm, Educated, Venus’ Blessing, Free Expression*, Great Presence (2), Social Contacts (Troubadours), Privileged Upbringing; Deficient Technique Perdo, Envied Beauty; Ability Block (Martial), Higher Purpose (Save Toulouse from the French), Loose Magic, Small Frame. * House Virtue Personality Traits: Patriotic+3, Romantic +3, Vain +2 Reputations: Beautiful Chatelaine 4 (nobles), Patroness of Troubadours 3 (troubadours), Cultured 2 (magi) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense 0, Damage -2 Gardening Trowel: Init –1; Attack +2; Defense –1; Damage –1 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9– 12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Area Lore: County of Toulouse 3 (nobles), Artes Liberales 4 (astronomy), Awareness 1 (alertness), Charm 4 (17) (troubadours), Code of Hermes 1 (7) (interpreting interfering with mundanes), Concentration 1 (maintaining spells), Craft: Gardener 4 (flowers), Craft: Winemaking 2 (7) (black wines), Etiquette 4 (Toulouse courtly manners), Finesse 1 (creating flowers), Folk Ken 1 (6) (covenfolk), Guile 2 (2) (answering questions), Hunt 1 (hawking), Intrigue 2 (2) (romantic liaisons), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 2 (2) (magi), Magic Lore 1 (magical plants), Magic Theory 6 (5) (Mentem), Music 1 (4) (flute), Occitan 5 (poetry), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (7) (magi of Provencal), Parma Magica 2 (4) (Mentem), Penetration 1 (Herbam), Philosophiae 1 (natural philosophy), Profession: Scribe 1 (copying), Profession: Viticulturist (care of vines) 2 (5), Ride 1 (horses), Teaching 4 (11) (apprentices). Arts: Cr 7, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 7, Re 11, An 5, Aq 5, Au 6, Co 9, He 19, Ig 6, Im 9, Me 11, Te 5, Vi 11 Twilight Scars: Flowers grow wherever she sleeps; she exudes a faint smell of summer flowers; spring blossom always appears in hair.''
''Equipment: Iron gardening trowel (talisman), clothes suited to occasion. Encumbrance: 0(0) Appearance: A very petite woman, her physical charms remain obvious despite her years. Her hair is always flecked with spring blossoms. Spells Known: Soothe the Ferocious Bear (ReAn 10) +16 Gentle Touch of the Purified Body (CrCo 20) +16 Disguise of the New Visage (MuCo 15) +15, Mastery 1 (Fast Casting) Rise of the Feathery Body (ReCo 10) +20 Endurance of the Berserkers (ReCo 15) +20 The Healthy Vine (CrHe 5) +31 The Well Tended Vine (CrHe 5) +31 Create the Flowers of the Moon (CrHe 15) +26 Trap of the Entwining Vines (CrHe 15) +26 Converse with Plant and Tree (InHe 25) +24 Coils of the Entangling Plants (ReHe 20) +30 Ward against the Faeries of the Wood (ReHe25) +30 The Treacherous Spear (ReHe25) +30 Freeing the Striding Tree (ReHe 30) +30 Prison of Flames (MuIg 20) +11 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +14 Sight of the Transparent Motive (InMe 10) +16 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20) +16 Calm the Motion of the Heart (PeMe 15) +9 Enchantment of Detachment (PeMe 15) +9 Loss of But a Moment’s Memory (PeMe 15) +9 Confusion of the Numbed Will (ReMe 15) +22 The Call to Slumber (ReMe 10) +22 Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20) +22 Cool the Lover’s Ardor (ReMe 20) +22 Detect the Gift (InVi 20) +16 The Invisible Eye Revealed (InVi 15) +16 Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20) +16 Watching Ward (ReVi 30) +22''
''She is currently under a longevity ritual that provides –6 to Aging Rolls.''
''New Spells''
''The Well Tended Vine CrHe 5 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual Affects any plant, not just vines, but it was designed by Joia to protect the grape crop initially, and later to win prizes for best vegetable in village contests, before turning it to use on her gardens. The spell effects a plant of a mass equal to ten paces in each direction (that is the size of a small tree, or large vine). While under the influence of this spell the plant grows well, healthy and strong, and any fruit are large and succulent. It does not create the plant, and the plant does not become magical; it simply promotes healthy growth. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''The Healthy Vine CrHe 5 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual Protects a plant of similar size to that described in The Well Tended Vine (above) above from all disease. Joia created the spell to protect the grapes during an outbreak of Powdery Mildew, a vine disease, but uses it extensively on the garden. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)''
''Create the Flowers of the Moon CrHe 15 R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Group Decorates a room with fresh flowers that grow normally and require care and watering. The quality of the floral display is determined by a Finesse roll. The flowers persist until the spell expires, then simply cease to exist. (Base 1, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, Group +2)''
''Cool the Lover’s Ardor ReMe 20 R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Individual The lover is caught for a moment by Joia’s eye, and thinks better of making any advances toward her until dusk or dawn. They know she will not welcome them. (Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 Eye)''
''Detect the Gift InVi 20 R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Touch Joia found the process of locating a suitable apprentice difficult, and after several neardisasters when children she was hopeful of turned out to bewitched, faerie struck, influenced by demons, or in one case simply unbearably mad, she returned to the laboratory to create a spell that would confirm if a potential apprentice possessed The Gift. The child’s hair, Gifted or not, develops a subtle fragrance of flowers for a few hours after being touched. (Base 10, +1 Concentration, +1 Touch)''
''Joia’s Trowel''
''Joia’s talisman is in the form of a small iron gardening trowel with a hazel handle.''
''Vis Capacity: 20; Total Pawns Invested: 2; Total Effect Levels: 17; Attunement Bonuses: +7 harm or repel faeries, +2 building, +3 divination''
''Rope of Bronze MuHe 17 Pen +0, 3/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual As per the spell of the same name in ArM5, 137 (Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)''

|]
''Wealth (Minor Boon): The covenant enjoys considerable wealth, as described in the Resources section. This can be as much a curse as a blessing, with armies moving around the region, and the inhabitants do not advertise their riches too widely, encouraging discretion even among the covenfolk. Regio (Major Hook): Within the walls of Jardin lies the famous Garden of Love: a tranquil, beautiful place that masks deadly danger and great power. A deeper level of the Faerie regio can inadvertently be entered by becoming lost in the maze, and the inhabitants of the regio can be dangerous. Most dangerous of all is the fact that anyone entering may discover their Heart’s Desire, and be forever consumed by the pursuit of this passion. (See The Garden of Love, later). While the original aura of Jardin was Magical, the legends and stories of the troubadours and Joia’s experiments with physically building a fictional garden in reality have given rise to two strong Faerie regiones which have replaced the earlier magical ones. War Zone (Major Hook): While the history of the region is marked by incessant warring between minor independent lords, the Albigensian Crusade has led to a very real threat of massacre and destruction. Joia has very clearly allied the covenant with the Southern cause, yet attempts to keep Jardin out of the eyes of the marauding armies. Eventually Jardin will become caught up in the Crusade, and even if it does not, a return to the incessant warring of the minor nobles could be just as dangerous. Crumbling (Minor Hook): The walls of the fortress are dilapidated, and sections are unsafe. It is less defensible than one would hope, which given the risk from the Crusade could become a major issue. Obvious repairs or improvements, however, run the risk of drawing hostile attention to Jardin and provoking an assault. Faerie Aura (Minor Hook): The aura has in the last decade switched to Faerie, weakening the magi’s magic and exposing them to increased risk from the inhabitants of the garden. In addition, while such changes in the nature of an aura are not unknown, they are not well understood, and if Jardin’s situation becomes widely known in the Order, scholarly magi will want to investigate. Faerie Regio (Minor Hook): Because the regio of the Garden of Love is a Faerie regio, it counts as a Minor Hook in addition to the Major Hook for the regio itself. Road (Minor Hook):The covenant stands on the main road from Cahors to Toulouse, which is busy all day. Being on a rise only a mile from the road, with large stone walls and the impressive library building and tower, it attracts all manner of visitors. Weary travelers seek safety''
''and a bed for the night, knights seek adventure in the Garden of Love, magi call by seeking refuge from the dust of the road, and priests arrive to question the beliefs of the inhabitants in the attempt to root out heresy. As such the covenant must deal with unexpected guests on a regular basis, and special arrangements are in place to prevent the magi being unduly disturbed.''

==Magi==

''There are currently six magi on the Council of Jardin, listed here in order of precedence as established by the Charter (see later).''

==Joia du Lua of House Jerbiton==

''Joia du Lua poses as chatelaine, and is a renowned patron of troubadours and advocate of Occitanian culture. It was she who, inspired by the songs of the troubadours, found a way to recreate the mythical Garden of Love, and in her attempt to protect the South she has allowed many to quest for their Heart’s Desire within the regio (see later). On occasion this has led to disaster, as the quester has returned changed terribly by their experiences within, or not returned at all. The magi have taken action to cover up these incidents, or selectively change the memories of the victims of the garden. Joia’s passionate support of Occitan culture extends to political support for Count Raimond, and a so far passive opposition to the claims of the French monarchy, the de Montfort family, and the crusaders. She thinks nothing of sheltering faidits, those dispossessed by the fighting, as long as they share her patriotism for the County of Toulouse. Her hostility to the French extended to poor treatment directed at Beatriz, her French-born apprentice, and sooner or later she will bring the attention of hostile armies upon the covenant, just as befell Bellaquin in 1202 or Lariander in 1209. Joia inspires many lovers in fin amor, but has never consummated any of her romances. To do so would be a breach of the noble ideals of romantic love. Nonetheless her beauty, based more upon her enchanting personality than physical looks, is such that vain women detest her, and for this reason she has the Envied Beauty Flaw (see Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 56). Joia’s magic manifests her sigil of the delicate perfume of summer flowers.''

==Lexora of House Bjornaer==

''Lexora is the second maga of Jardin, a position that never ceases to infuriate her. She was apprenticed to Androcles before he came to the covenant, and even though she is slightly older than Joia and was Gauntleted at the same time, Joia takes precedence through her family connections. Lexora is immensely proud, and refuses to accept she is second in anything; she schemes to seize the position of first maga, and disagrees on principle with anything Joia proposes. She spends increasing amounts of time roaming the region in her lioness Heartbeast form, engaging in physical combat as a way of dealing with the frustration of life at home. She has Initiated the Bjornaer Mystery of Sensory Magic (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 27) and soon plans to take another Initiation, perhaps traveling to Crintera to learn the mysteries of Clan Maruhs, to which she belongs (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 12). She hates with a passion Joia’s corruption of the Bjornaer magical site, and despises the Garden of Love and the faeries within it. The site was an ancestor site of Clan Maruhs, wherein occasionally Panthera the Terrible, a Great Beast of the clan, was to be found, redtoothed and gnawing upon the remains of one of the lycanthropes who plagued the region in past centuries. Joia has effectively destroyed the site, by taming it to a story and making the wild hilltop woods a garden, an artifact of humanity, and for this sacrilege alone Lexora could have grown to hate her, even if she did not take the position of pack leader that Lexora feels is rightfully hers. Despite these issues, the two grew up together and their bickering is currently that of siblings, who would unite in the face of an external threat. She dislikes the covenant autocrat, Serena, and is the only maga present who realizes the threat Joia’s niece represents to the future of the Covenant. While caring nothing for matters of religion beyond her own vague Graeco-Roman paganism culled from her reading in the classics and her interest in the mysteries of House Bjornaer, she suspects that Serena sympathizes with the Crusade. Lexora is too proud to bow to God or man, and her pride is a tragic flaw that will probably prove her undoing. Xenophanes is not fond of Lexora. Only the friendship between his familiar Hypatia and Lexora keeps the two on speaking terms. Ahenobarbus agrees with Lexora that the covenant is weak and needs to build up its defenses in the face of the mundane threats of the Crusade and wars, but has a strong personal dislike for her as his key ally is Serena. Further,''

[|
''while he accepts she would be a better leader than Joia, he favors a defensive, rather than aggressive, approach to the enemies without, and finds Lexora arrogant and hard to cope with. Lexora’s casting sigil is warm sunlight. When viewed by Intellego Vim magics, the effects of her spells have a dazzling golden aura, and objects or people affected by her may feel the warmth of the sun, or appear brighter than usual.''

==Xenophanes of House Criamon==

''In the late twelfth century House Criamon embarked upon a remarkable experiment, an attempt to teach a fool wisdom. Xenophanes is a very unusual magus, in that he is not very bright. In fact, he is fairly stupid, lacking common sense, and, while highly educated, simple minded. He rushes in where angels fear to tread, and is very confident in his own abilities, because he knows no better. A capable magus, his lack of understanding of much that happens around him is potentially dangerous. Not all in House Criamon approved of the''
''experiment (see Miniatia Sophia, later) but the Cave of Twisting Shadows, where the boy was apprenticed, regards the experiment as a major development in the pursuit of The Enigma. A gentle soul who loves tending the garden in the pale light of the moon while Hypatia, his cat familiar, prowls around, Xenophanes has little understanding of the internal politics of the covenant. He is, however, very attached to the local Cathars, and has written a book on their beliefs and ideas. As such, he is sympathetic to the Gorgiastic Cathars of Toulouse, but he has not yet decided to renounce his House and join them, as every time he comes close he talks to Father Augustine and becomes too confused to leave the Church and make the leap of faith of fully''

==Joia du Lua of House Jerbiton (Cont’d) Story Seeds for Joia==

''Despite Lexora’s ambitions for leadership, in many senses Joia is Jardin: she created the covenant in its present form, completely changing the legacy of Humbert and Androcles. Almost every Jardin story involves Joia’s presence or schemes.''
''Story Seed: The Jealous Trobairitz''
''Titbores is a prominent female troubadour, a trobairitz, who writes vulgar and often satirical poems about the chatelaines who sponsor and support her male troubadour colleagues, but who have shown little regard for her verse output. Her actual identity is currently unknown, though it is clear she must be someone of social prominence or well connected to the troubadour movement of the County of Toulouse, even if she may get some of her observations from the barbed gossip of her male associates. Whoever Titbores is, she has recently developed a particularly unpleasant grudge against Joia, and the characters hear bawdy songs sung by minstrels in taverns that originate from her poetry, songs that comment extremely unflatteringly on Joia’s supposed warts (on the face and elsewhere) and her being a hagged old crone, who only manages to maintain her influence by witchcraft and sorcery, and who is “poisonous as the warty toad, yet lacks the rough charm thereof”. Joia is incensed and tries to narrow down a list of influential Occitan women to find out who this slanderous woman is and why she has begun her campaign against her. The campaign is all the more worrying because Joia does use sorcery to maintain her beauty.''
''Story Seed: Star Crossed Lovers''
''Joia often hosts ‘entertainments’ in the Summer Garden for young noblemen and women she has come to know and trust. At these events, troubadours recite and sing, and servants discreetly serve the finest wines to the masked guests. A recent garden party has resulted in potential disaster for the cause of the South, however. Rogier Bernard, a heroic war leader and son and heir of Count Raimond-Rogier of Foix, has fallen deeply in love with Guida of Rodez, daughter of the proud lord of Rodez Comte Henri of Millau. Both families are deeply committed to the cause of the South, and are gathering forces to resist the inevitable French invasion, but for a century Rodez and Foix have been involved in a series of bloody skirmishes and at times open war over disputed lands in the region of Lourdes. The hatred between the boy’s and girl’s fathers is so intense that neither is at all likely to accept a marriage. Worse still, Rogier Bernard is betrothed to Maria d’Artagnan of Béarn, and Guida to Gilbert, a nephew of the Count of Provence. Joia notices the two flirting with approval, but when, that night, they elope, the rest of the party, including prominent vassals of both parties’ parents, are aghast and demand Joia does something, anything, to prevent a scandal that could destroy the united front under the flag of Toulouse against the gathering threat of a resumed crusade.''
''Story Seed: Joia’s Heart''
''It was long assumed by many that Joia would marry the man who courted her most assiduously, and who she called “her perfect knight”: the younger Raimond''
''of Toulouse, heir to the title of Count of Toulouse. Joia is friends with Count Raimond, and was very fond of his son, and vice versa, but in 1211, for political reasons, Raimond was married to Sancha of Aragon, the daughter of Alfonso II of Aragon, hence ensuring the firm support of Aragon for the Southern cause that had been threatened by the death of King Pedro II at the Battle of Muret. Joia, however, took the disappointment well, and it is said that Raimond still courts her in a chaste manner. One day while out riding with a hawking party, however, Joia comes across a handsome young knight who joins the party, and for perhaps the first time becomes completely enraptured, to the point where all her game playing and chaste devotion to fin amor are threatened by her feelings for this man, with whom she spends several days traveling before asking him back to Jardin as an honored guest with the rest of the group. Once he arrives Alyssa immediate recognizes the youth as Amalric VI de Montfort, claimant of the title of Count of Toulouse after his father’s death, and younger brother of Simon de Montfort, the current heir to the de Montfort estates. His mother Alix and father (also Simon) were the greatest enemies the South has faced, and led the Albigensian crusade; Amalric’s father was killed besieging Toulouse, which the family still claim as a possession despite the triumphant return of Raimond VI. Joia believes her Heart’s Desire is the defense of the south, and she is entertaining a young English knight who is a mortal enemy to her cause and all her friends. Strangely, she seems unwilling to take any action against him, though deeply conflicted and now confused. Can the magi save Joia, or even Toulouse, from this random shot of Cupid’s arrow?''

==Lexora of House Bjornaer==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str +3, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: 0 Age: 70 (56) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 4 (10) Confidence: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Maga; Animal Ken, Heartbeast (Lioness)*, Improved Characteristics (×2), Puissant Brawl, Reserves of Strength, Self-Confident, Sensory Magic, Subtle Magic, Unbound Tongue***, Wilderness Sense; Pagan, Proud, Weak Magic Resistance (when in human form); Weak Enchanter. * House Virtue. ** See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, pages 27–28. *** See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 38. Personality Traits: Proud +6, Leonine +2, Difficult +1 Heart’s Desire: To rule over magi. Initially, to lead Jardin as First Magus, eventually to become a Tribunal Praeco and then Bjornaer Prima. Reputations: Animalistic 1 (5) (magi) Combat: Dodge: Init +1, Attack n/a, Defense +7, Damage n/a Fist: Init: +1, Attack +7, Defense +6, Damage +3 Kick: Init: +0, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +6 Soak: 1 Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Ken 1 (predators), Area Lore: County of Toulouse 2 (2) (wilds), Artes Liberales 2 (grammar), Athletics 1 (jumping), Awareness 3 (smell), Brawl 3 (6) (dodge), Code of Hermes 1 (7) (Certamen), Concentration 1 (maintaining effects), Craft Woodworking 1 (4) (figurines), Hunt 1 (falconry), Etiquette 3 (6) (pulling rank), Finesse 1 (targeting), Heartbeast: Lioness 2 (12) (transforming back), Latin 4 (writing), Leadership 2 (10) (Jardin), Magic Lore 1 (Greek myths), Magic Theory 5 (5) (Animal), Occitan 5 (courtly), Organization Lore: House Bjornaer 4 (Initiating self), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (5) (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (7) (Bjornaer), Parma Magica 4 (1) (Mentem), Penetration 2 (8) (Ignem), Philosophiae 1 (rituals), Profession: Scribe 2 (copying), Stealth 1 (stalking), Survival 1 (forest), Swim 1 (rivers), Teaching 3 (3) (apprentices), Wilderness Sense 1 (2) (mountains). Arts: Cr 5, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 9, Re 12, An 17, Aq 5, Au 6, Co 10, He 5, Ig 6, Im 7, Me 10, Te 5, Vi 9 Twilight Scars: Can only eat raw meat; appears to grow in size when angry; hair is a wild unruly mane''
''Equipment: N/A. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A rough mane of uncontrollable blonde hair, brown eyes, and a courtly gown. Spells Known: True Rest of the Injured Brute (CrAn 20) +23/25 Shiver of the Lycanthrope (InAn10) +23/25 The Fur That Turns Blades (MuAn 15) +23/25 Lion of Outlandish Size (MuAn 15) +23/25 Transformation of the Ravenous Beast to the Torpid Toad (MuAn25) +23/25 The Gentle Beast (ReAn 25) +30/32 Mastering the Unruly Beast (ReAn 25) +30/32 Commanding the Harnessed Beast (ReAn 30) +30/32 The Lamb Lies Down With the Lion (ReAn 30) +30/32 The Inexorable Search (InCo 20) +16/18 Disguise of the New Visage (MuCo 15) +16/18 Endurance of the Lion (ReCo 20) +23/25 The Gift of Vigor (ReCo 20) +23/25 Breath of Flames (CrIg 20) +12/14 The Invisible Predator (PeMe 30) +20/22 The Roar That Induces Terror (CrMe 20) +16/18 Aura of Regal Authority (ReMe 30) +23/25 Gather the Essence of the Beast (ReVi 15) +22/24 Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 15) +22/24''
''Numbers after the slash are modified by stamina in lion form.''
''Lexora has a -6 Longevity Ritual.''
''New Spells''
''Lion of Outlandish Size MuAn 15 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual (+1 Size) Causes the caster to increase in Size by 1 point, with an increase in Strength of +2, and a reduction in Quickness of –1.. In Lioness form this gives Lexora a Size of +3. Her Strength increases by +2 to +8, and her Quickness falls by 1 to 0. This changes her combat statistics in lioness form to Claws: Init +1, Attack +15, Defense +11, Damage +12, Bite: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +8 Damage +11. A Size +3 lioness is a terrifying sight, and inspires awe and fear. Her fur appears to become tinted with gold, and in this form she is the size of a war horse. (Base 4, +2 Sun, +1 Size)''
''The Fur That Turns Blades MuAn 20 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual (+1 Size) This spell causes Lexora’s fur to appear dappled with golden patches, as if in bright sunlight, and it grows warm to the touch. She becomes far more resistant to weapons, teeth or claws, but her fur remains supple, giving +3 protection with no load penalty. She usually casts this before going hunting or if expecting trouble. (Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 Size)''
''Endurance of the Lion ReAn 20 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Individual (+1 Size) As Endurance of the Berserkers (ArM5 page134), but works in animal form. Lexora’s eyes take on a golden sheen as the spell takes effect, and her fur grows warm as if in direct sunlight. (Base 10, +1 Diameter, +1 Size)''
''The Lamb Lies Down With the Lion ReAn 30 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Spectacle Animals seeing the caster become strangely calm, and, unless attacked, act as if she were a harmless creature. Lexora usually casts this while around the covenant to prevent the horses or village livestock being frightened by her, although her Gift still applies to any direct interactions, for example if she approaches an animal. Lexora appears bathed in warm sunlight to anyone who can see her. (Base 4, Sun +2, Spectacle +4)''
''The Invisible Predator PeMe 30 R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Spectacle The subjects simply disregard the caster of the spell, as if she is not there, their minds altered to remove any thought of her. This spell only works on intelligent creatures; those with Cunning require Animal as the Form. Those affected by Lexora’s spell feel the kiss of the sun on their skin, and at night in particular this may alert them something is wrong. This spell was invented by Androcles, and Lexora rarely uses it owing to the difficulty she has casting it reliably. (Base 4, Sun +2, Spectacle +4, +1 requisite)''
''The Roar That Induces Terror CrMe 20 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Sound The victims of this spell are overcome with a terrible fear of the source of the roar, and attempt to retreat from it. In Lexora’s version, as they hear the roar they also subtly feel the heat of the sun upon their skins. (Base 4, Diameter +1, Spectacle +3)''
''Aura of Regal Authority ReMe 30 R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Spectacle Androcles developed this spell, and instils a sense of subservience to authority similar to the deference one might give a king in all who can see the caster. In Lexora’s version, those affected by the spell see her as always illuminated by the sun; during the day, this is literal, but at night Lexora simply looks impressive to them in a way that they naturally describe as being in sunlight. (Base 4, Diameter +1, Spectacle +4)''

|]
''adopting Cathar beliefs. Within his own Tradition, Xenophanes has advanced to the third station upon the Path of Walking Backwards, The Avenue of Adulation and the Station of Expression, and can use his Enigmatic Wisdom skill to replace Craft: Flower Arranging rolls. See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults pages 70–71 for a full description of Xenophanes’ Path based abilities. His Silver Cord link to Hypatia gives him some defense against his stupidity, and his nocturnal and somewhat reclusive habits''
''prevent him being too much of a liability. Hypatia generally keeps him safe and sensible, and he trusts her judgment. Xenophanes’ sigil is a feeling of bliss, a soft emotion that gives gentle pleasure. Even objects effected by his spells seem somehow contented, and those handling them may feel the sigil manifest.''

==Beatriz of House Jerbiton==

''Beatriz is a broken husk of a maga. After serving her apprenticeship here at the covenant under Joia, she chose to remain despite the fact that the two women despise each other. In 1209 she witnessed the terrible massacre at Beziers, and was one of the very few to escape. In the face of the crusade she felt helpless. A few years ago Beatriz made the fateful decision to quest for her Heart’s Desire. The''

[|

==Lexora of House Bjornaer (Cont’d) Sensory Magic==

''Sound and Spectacle are Targets derived from the Sensory Magic Mystery of House Bjornaer. Magi who have not been Initiated into that Mystery cannot create or cast spells that use them. A Sound Target affects anyone who can hear the caster, while a Spectacle Target affects anyone who can see her.''
''Lexora, in Lioness Form''
''Characteristics: Int +1, Per +0, Pre +1, Com 0, Str +6, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1 Size: +2 Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 4 (10) Confidence: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Maga; Animal Ken, Ferocity (selfdefense), Heartbeast (Lioness)*, Improved Characteristics (×2), Puissant Brawl, Reserves of Strength, Self-Confident, Sensory Magic, Subtle Magic, Tough, Unbound Tongue, Wilderness Sense; Pagan, Proud, Weak Magic Resistance (when in human form); Weak Enchanter, Weakness (submission) Qualities: Aggressive, Ambush Predator, Crafty, Good Jumper, Hardy, Imposing Appearance, Large Claws, Large Teeth, Tough Hide, Vocal. Combat: Claws: Init +1, Attack +15, Defense +12, Damage +10 Bite: Init +1, Attack +13, Defense +9, Damage +9 Soak: +8 (Tough Hide gives Lexora +2 Protection) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–7), –3 (8–14), –5 (15–21), Incapacitated (22–28), Dead (29+) Abilities: Animal Ken 1 (predators), Area Lore: County of Toulouse 1 (7) (wilds), Artes Liberales 2 (grammar), Athletics 5 (pouncing), Awareness 2 (smell), Brawl 5+2 (1) (claws), Code of Hermes 1 (7) (Certamen), Hunt 4 (deer), Finesse 1 (tar''
''geting), Heartbeast: Lioness 2 (12) (transforming back), Latin 4 (writing), Magic Lore 1 (Greek myths), Magic Theory 5 (5) (Animal), Occitan 5 (courtly), Organization Lore: House Bjornaer 4 (Initiating self), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (5) (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (7) (Bjornaer), Parma Magica 4 (1) (Mentem), Penetration 2 (8) (Ignem), Philosophiae 1 (rituals), Stealth 4 (stalking), Survival 5 (arid climates), Wilderness Sense 1 (2) (mountains).''
''Note that although Lexora still has the Flaw Weak Magic Resistance when in lioness form, it does not apply.''
''Lexora is holding herself aloof from Joia’s plans, but her determination to wrest control of the covenant from the Jerbiton means that she has an important role to play.''
''Story Seeds For Lexora''
''Story Seed: The Pride of Lions''
''Lexora regards herself as the natural and true leader of Jardin, and heir to the sacred site bequeathed to her by Androcles. She is utterly horrified by Joia’s experiments, and the development of the Faerie aura, and is determined to take over the leadership of the covenant and restore things to their rightful state. The question is how to challenge Joia. She can hardly challenge her to a physical battle, and does not wish to declare a Wizard’s War against a woman with whom she grew up and regards as a sister. She regards Certamen as below her dignity, and she not willing to grovel to the rest of the Council to try to change the political structure and win the leadership by vote after amending the Charter. As such, she has been stymied — until now. She has decided to perform an act so heroic that Joia will resign her leadership as is proper, and accept that she is the real leader of Jardin. While eating the Dauphin and saving the South from a resumed French crusade appeals, Lexora knows''
''she could not escape Hermetic justice for such an act, so she is seeking an opportunity to do something equally brave and notable, but at least technically legal under the Code. What will this act be?''
''Story Seed: The Handsome Huntsman''
''Lexora is out prowling the countryside one day when a pack of hounds pick up her scent and give chase. She can easily outwit them, but during the pursuit she catches a glimpse of the young huntsman, clearly a noble of some means, and judging by his arms a scion of the royal house of Aragon, who also happens to be dazzlingly handsome. Lexora amuses herself by letting him chase her for the day, planning to speak with him after dark, but at some point in the chase her handsome pursuer vanishes, leaving his huntsmen in consternation. Lexora is smitten though, and desperately seeks news of the young man and what strange fate befell him during the chase.''
''Story Seed: The Return of Panthera''
''In the early 10th century a Lion Heartbeast Bjornaer named Panthera took control of the pool on the site of Jardin from shapeshifters. Eventually he passed in to Final Twilight here, becoming a Great Beast, and it was the hunt for this sacred Ancestor Site of his forefather that brought Androcles here. Now Panthera is an immense and deadly predator, and like all Great Beasts deeply elusive. Lexora plans to travel to Crintera and learn more of her Ancestor so she can seek the Inner Mysteries of the House by finding him, but what if Panthera, who dedicated his life to defending the pool, returns and discovers the Faerie influence which has arisen? He might be as deadly and cunning a foe. Would he see Lexora as an ally, or as a traitor?''

==Xenophanes of House Criamon==

''Characteristics: Int –3, Per +2, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +3 (2), Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 80 (61) Decrepitude: 0 (3) Warping Score: 6 (23) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Elemental Magic, Gentle Gift (1); Adept Laboratory Student, Book Learner, Free Expression (3), Inspirational (3), Inventive Genius, Life Boost, The Enigma*, Quiet Magic, Skilled Parens, Subtle Magic, True Friend (Hypatia)**; Overconfident, Pious (1), Short Ranged Magic; Disjointed Magic, Nocturnal, Noncombatant (2), Social Handicap (unworldly), Vow (help the injured) (2), Weak Characteristics * House Virtue ** From familiar bond. Personality Traits: Pious +6, Overconfident +6, Compassionate +3, Loyal (Hypatia) +3 Heart’s Desire: A True Friend, which he found in Hypatia. Reputations: Weird Ascetic 2 (magi) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Soak: 3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Animal Handling 1 (cats), Artes Liberales 1 (grammar), Athletics 3 (running), Awareness 3 (by moonlight), Charm 3 (8) (Cathars), Climb 1 (retrieve cat from tree), Concentration 5 (meditation), Craft: Gardener 3 (12) (mazes), Enigmatic Wisdom 7 (interpreting omens) (6), Etiquette 2 (4) (knowing my place), Finesse 2 (fast casting), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), High German (Alpine) 5, Latin 5 (writing), Magic Lore 3 (legends), Magic Theory 6 (11)(familiars), Occitan 3 (13) (rustic), Organization Lore Cathar Church 2 (Toulouse diocese), Organization Lore: House Criamon 6 (Initiating in Path of Walking Backwards), Organization Lore Jardin 2 (4) (The Garden of Love), Parma Magica 1 (1) (Ignem), Penetration 1 (Vim), Profession: Scribe 1 (copying), Survival 3 (foraging), Swim 3 (rivers), Teaching 4 (cats), Theology: Cathar 3 (4) (debating). Arts: Cr 11, In 8, Mu 5, Pe 11, Re 9, An 9, Aq 13, Au 9, Co 7, He 6, Ig 8, Im 7, Me 5, Te 11, Vi 16 Twilight Scars: Tattoos writhe and change constantly; always has a leaf or blade of grass caught in his hair, and if it is removed another appears seconds later, cats are instantly friendly to him, people feel calm and relaxed around him, a sound of loud purring when he sleeps, vis on his person makes a loud crackling noise and glows in bright colored lights.''
''Equipment: Small bronze sickle, cat familiar Hypatia (see below) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: A white-haired, ruddy man in bright peasant clothes, with a widebrimmed hat, wearing boots and leather gloves. Close examination would reveal tattoos on his neck, so he normally wears a scarf, and on his wrists. He has a total of fifteen strange tattoos covering his body, but most are covered by clothing. (Also see Twilight Scars) Spells Known: Air’s Ghostly Form (CrAu 5) +23 Jupiter’s Resounding Blow (CrAu 10) +23 Stench of the Twenty Corpses (CrAu 10) +23 Charge of the Angry Winds (CrAu 15) +23 Mighty Torrent of Water (CrAq 20) +27 Clear Sight of the Naiad (InAq 5) +24 Subtle Taste of Poison and Purity (InAq 5) +24 Call of the Rushing Waters (InAq 15) +24 Comfort of the Drenched Traveller (PeAq 5) +27 Cloak of the Duck’s Feathers (ReAq 5) +25 Breath of Winter (ReAq 15) +25 The Chirurgeon’s Healing Touch (CrCo 20) +21 Physician’s Eye (InCo 5) +18 Revealed Flaws of Mortal Flesh (InCo 10) +18 Touch of the Goose Feather (PeCo 5) +21 Curse of the Unruly Tongue (ReCo 5) +19 Spasms of the Uncontrolled Hand (ReCo 5) +19 Rise of the Feathery Body (ReCo 10) +19 Endurance of the Berserkers (ReCo 15) +19 Health of the Vine (CrHe 5) +20 (see under Joia earlier) Converse with Plant and Tree (InHe 25) +17 Moonbeam (CrIg 3) +22 Charm Against Putrefaction (CrCo 10) +21 Heat of the Searing Forge (CrIg 10) +22 Lamp Without Flame (CrIg 10) +22 Tales of the Ashes (InIg 5) +19 Hornet Fire (Mu(Re)Ig 10) +16 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +15 Eyes of the Eons (InTe 10) +25T Supple Iron and Rigid Rope (MuTe 10) +22T The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +26T Detect the Gift (InVi 15) +27 The Invisible Eye Revealed (InVi 15) +27 Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20) +27 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 10) +30 Disenchant (PeVi 25) +30 Aegis of the Hearth (ReVi 20) +28 Watching Ward (ReVi 25) +28  Spells with a T include bonuses from Xenophanes’ Talisman (below).''
''(1) From The Avenue of Surrender and the Station of Service to Harmony. (2) From the The Avenue of Healing and the Station of Rice and Honey. (3) From The Avenue of Adulation and the Station of Expression.''
''He is currently under a longevity ritual that provides –6 to Aging Rolls, reduced to –5 by his unhealthy laboratory.''
''Xenophanes’ Sickle''
''Xenophanes’ talisman is in the form of a small bronze sickle.''
''Total Pawns Invested: 7; Total Effect Levels: 60; Attunement Bonuses: +3 Terram; +5 Darkness; +2 Harvesting''
''Well Without Light PeIg 25 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Structure As per the spell of the same name in ArM5, page 142. (Base 3, Touch +1, Sun +2, Structure +3)  Break the Hard Soil ReTe 7 Pen +0, 6/day R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Part Breaks the soil in a circle 15 paces across, making it ready for sowing or digging. (Base 2, +1 Touch, +1 Part, +3 levels for 6 times a day)''
''Beckoning in the Unwelcome Twilight CrVi 25 Pen +20, 1/day R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Immediately grants two Warping Points to the person touched by the sickle, requiring a roll for Twilight in Hermetic magi. (Base 10, +1 Touch, +10 levels Penetration)''
''Hypatia, a Black Cat Familiar''
''Hypatia is Xenophanes’ beloved familiar, and a sardonic commentator on happenings at Jardin. She manages to keep Xenophanes out of trouble most of the time, being far more intelligent than he.''
''Magic Might: 10 (Vim) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int 0, Per +1, Pre –2, Com –4, Str –7, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +4 Size: –3 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal*; Magical Friend*; Common Sense, Perfect Balance, Puissant Awareness, Sharp Ears, Tough, True Friend (Xenophanes)**, Unaffected by The Gift*; Nocturnal, Poor Communication, Weak Characteristics x 3 * See Realms of Power: Magic. ** From familiar bond. Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Greater Power; Improved Abilities, Improved Powers, Lesser Power x2 Personality Traits: Loyal to Xenophanes +3, Sardonic +2, Curious +1, Cat +3 Combat: Dodge: Init +4, Attack n/a, Defense +10, Damage n/a Bite: Init +4, Attack +12, Defense +11, Damage –6''

==Xenophanes of House Criamon (Cont’d)==

''Soak: +3 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Area Lore: Cahors 3 (hunting spots), Athletics 5 (jumping), Awareness 7+2 (at night), Brawl 4 (bite), High German (Alpine) 5, Hunt 6 (mice), Latin 5 (creative insults), Magic Lore 3 (animals), Magic Theory 3 (spells), Occitan 3 (ask for food), Organization Lore: Jardin 5 (animals), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (familiars), Penetration 5 (Mentem), Stealth 7 (stalking), Survival 4 (shelter) Vis: 2 pawns of Vim Gold Cord: 1, Silver Cord: 3, Bronze Cord: 0 Bond Powers: Mental Communication. This operates both ways between Hypatia and Xenophanes, and both are able to send complex thoughts, such as images and emotions, to each other. This power has unlimited uses. Speech. Hypatia can speak, and does so frequently, usually in a sardonic manner. She is particularly given to commenting upon what she perceives as others’ stupidity and humans’ lack of personal hygiene. She understands she is not allowed to speak in front of visitors to the covenant unless they wear red caps, however. Xenophanes can withdraw the effect temporarily if necessary; otherwise unlimited. The effect maintains concentration. Powers: Aura of Rightful Authority, 2 points, Penetration 0, Init +2, Mentem, R: Eye D: Sun, T: Individual. Inclines humans to obey orders and helps them overcome the shock of talking cats. (See ArM5, page 151) Humans Are Easily Misplaced, Corpus, 0 points, Penetration, +10 Init –3, R: Arc D: Concentration, T: Individual A version of The Inexorable Search (ArM5, page 131) The maps cats use are a mixture of scents and textures, and make little sense to humans. This power requires an Arcane Connection, so Hypatia scent marks humans she wishes to find again by rubbing on them (4 Mastery points spent on reducing Might cost) Master of the Undergrowth, Herbam, 2 points, Init +0, R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group A feline version of Intuition of the Forest (ArM5, page 136) Pass the Unyielding Portal, Herbam, 1 point, Initiative +2, R: Touch, D: Diameter, T: Individual A feline version of the spell of the same name, used when no humans are available to open doors. (See ArM5, page 137). Prying Eyes, Imaginem, 1 point, Initiative +2, Penetration +5, R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Room This effect is used to look inside a building and rooms. Note that a cat on a roof can see through it. The human version is on page 144 of ArM5.''
''The Wise Guide, Mentem, 0 points, Penetration +10, Initiative +2, R: Voice, D: Concentration, T: Group. Subtly influences Xenophanes to act in wise and sensible ways as if he had the Common Sense Virtue. There is no compulsion to follow this advice, but Xenophanes generally does. The power does not cause Warping as it was tailored to Xenophanes as part of the familiar bond. ReMe30 (Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration, +2 Group, 3 Mastery points used to reduce cost, 1 to improve Init.). Appearance: An unremarkable female black cat with a slightly snub nose and green eyes. Hypatia has a slight kink in her tail, and is older and leaner than most of the village cats, but you would have to know her well to recognize her in the dark.''
''Story Seeds for Xenophanes and Hypatia''
''Stories about Xenophanes and Hypatia can dwell on their relationship, which has been described by Lexora as the most simply affectionate love she has ever seen. In some way both need the other.''
''Story Seed: The Dance of Death''
''When a terrible deadly plague strikes a village just two days’ walk from the covenant, Xenophanes sets out to tend the sick, despite his lack of appropriate skills. He spends silver to hire two Cahors physicians, and watches them bicker over the cause of the strange fever that burns hot for a week, and then culminates in the victim throwing off their covers and dancing frantically through the streets until, unless restrained, they drop dead of exhaustion. Xenophanes realizes what the physicians do not — the strange bird who sings at midnight, the chirping of the crickets, and the skull-shaped rock that looms over the village and is now red with a strange moss tell him that this curse is sent by God for some unforgiven sin that that afflicts the whole community. What is the terrible secret of the community, and how can amends be made?''
''Story Seed: Sibling Rivalry''
''Leonarda of Criamon, head of the Covenant of Miniatia Sophia (see later) loathes and detests Xenophanes with an almost pathological passion. She is driven to prove that the whole magical experiment of teaching a fool wisdom was a terrible mistake, and while a Flambeau might simply declare Wizard’s War on her rival, or a Bonisagus critique the false assumptions in the experiment, such is not the Criamon way. Leonarda feels that Xenophanes represents a terrible magical danger, and has become obsessed with''
''proving this hypothesis. Xenophanes for his part is seemingly oblivious to his magical sister’s hostility, and so when Leonarda begins to send odd gifts, each laden with symbolic significance, to Jardin magi, and to arrive in the middle of the night and dance silently around the Aegis, Xenophanes just shrugs. Leonarda intends to set a bizarre, deeply symbolic and enigmatic trap for Xenophanes to fall into in the hope that he will finally disgrace himself. Unfortunately, the bizarre events, strange omens, and odd characters arriving attract the attention of Hypatia and the other residents of Jardin. Can they puzzle out this trap in the form of a Criamon riddle acted out in reality, or will Xenophanes be humiliated by his rival?''
''Story Seed: Hypatia’s Lover''
''Recently Hypatia has started a romantic entanglement with Auranja, the big ginger tom who lives in the stables and belongs to John the Gardener. At first everyone was delighted to see the two cats prowling around together, and it became clear that Auranja is also a magical cat, though his powers are unknown, as he tends to spend most of his time basking in the sun on the stable roof. Unfortunately the romance now takes up more and more of Hypatia’s nights, and while she is still completely loyal to Xenophanes and he is pleased for her, he does appear to be becoming a little jealous, and worse still dangerous, as he does increasingly foolish things without Hypatia to watch over his every move. As his thoughtless magic and bumbling mistakes cause more and more chaos, everyone agrees something must be done — but what?''
''Story Seed: The Spy in the Undergrowth''
''Rumors have started to spread about affairs and whispered lover’s secrets spoken by the young nobles whom Joia entertains in the Summer Garden. At first it is suspected that a servant is betraying these trusts, with disastrous effects on both Joia’s reputation and those accused — after all adulteresses can be slain by their cuckolded husbands, and even unwed ladies must jealously maintain the appearance of chastity. Joia’s reputation is soon damaged, and then ladies begin to whisper that she is the traitor to love who has exposed her friends to danger. The real villain is, however, Auranja, who has a power which enables him to walk through the door and enter the regio, and has been spying in the garden before harmlessly gossiping to all the other cats in the region. People say and do things in front of cats they would never do in front of a servant, but unfortunately Tibout, the magical cat companion of the bearded minstrel Izarns, has been giving his master snippets of low gossip he has picked up from talking to other cats.''
''failure of that quest finally snapped the already troubled woman; she gained the Flaw: Low Self Esteem, and became Depressed. Her bitterness carries her through, and her resentment against Joia remains. Beatriz has few friends, and seems to want none, but she occasionally takes and discards lovers, in a bitter parody of Joia’s commitment to the fin amor. Beatriz’s sigil manifests as an absence of red. Anything affected by her spells seems to have all the red drained from it. She is incapable of creating true red by magic, though her sigil does allow ruddy skin tones.''

==Ahenobarbus of Tremere==

''Ahenobarbus is an ambitious Rego specialist. He can deftly enslave people, but has been trained by House Tremere to use indirect effects in case he faces tough magical opponents. His skills in making earthworks and shrouding covenants helps in time of war. He also has leadership skills from studying Tremere military doctrine. In addition to occasionally magically enslaving hedge wizards (which has earned him enemies), he has also dabbled a little in necromancy. He was sent to the Tribunal in 1209 following the destruction of Lariander by the crusade, ostensibly to assist other covenants in maintaining their defenses by misdirection and subtle means, but in fact he is also here owing to Coeris’ suspicion that Protendus (See Faith and Flame:''
''Aedes Mercurii) is actually incompetent and not acting to defend the best interests of the House and the Order in the Tribunal. He found Jardin in a very exposed position, and has worked hard to improve the defenses, upgrading the grogs’ armor and doing his best to prevent entanglements in mundane politics. His plans, however, have suffered as Joia and Lexora have both tried to draw him into their struggle for the covenant’s leadership. Until such a time as the Order in Provence can assume a position of lordship over mundanes (and that time by his judgment is still decades off) Ahenobarbus is determined to work with the local covenants to help them hide from potential enemies, and avoid interference with both the crusaders and southern lords. Unfortunately his strongest ally is the covenant in Serena the Autocrat, with whom he''

==Beatriz of House Jerbiton==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per –1, Pre –1, Com +3, Str +1, Sta +1 (1), Dex –2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 43 (41) Decrepitude: 0 (1) Warping Score: 3 (12) Confidence: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Maga; Gentle Gift; Adept Laboratory Student, Affinity with Imaginem, Educated, Harnessed Magic, Minor Magical Focus (changing own appearance), Social Contacts (Troubadours)*; Deficient Technique Perdo, Low Self Esteem; Depressed, Weak Characteristics. Personality Traits: Depressed +3, Stubborn +2, Bitter +1. Heart’s Desire: Unknown. Beatriz failed in the quest. Reputations: Moody 2 (troubadours), Victim of the Garden 3 (Jardin) Combat: Dodge: Init: +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init: +0, Attack –2, Defense +0, Damage +1 Kick: Init: –1, Attack –2, Defense –1, Damage +4 Sword, Short: Init: +1, Attack +1, Defense +1, Damage +6 Soak: +1 Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: County of Toulouse 1 (troubadours), Artes Liberales 4 (8) (astronomy), Awareness 1 (alertness), Carouse 1 (hard drinking), Code of Hermes 1 (7) (apprentices), Concentration 1 (maintaining spells), Etiquette 2 (1) (Toulouse courtly manners), Finesse 1 (creating images), French 5 (poetry), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Magic Lore''
''1 (lycanthropes), Magic Theory 5 (20) (Imaginem), Music 2 (1) (flute), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (7) (magi of Provençal), Parma Magica 1 (Mentem), Penetration 1 (Corpus), Philosophiae 1 (natural philosophy), Profession: Scribe 1 (copying), Teaching 2 (5) (magi) Arts: Cr 9, In 6, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 8, An 3, Aq 3, Au 4, Co 5, He 4, Ig 4, Im 14, Me 7, Te 3, Vi 10 Twilight Scars: Her reflection never exactly matches her current appearance, red items fade if she touches them.  Equipment: a short sword worn on belt, a necklace (talisman) Encumbrance: 0 (burden 1) Appearance: A plain woman, who wears her hair dark in a severe bun, and never smiles. She constantly magically modifies her appearance depending upon her mood.''
''Spells Known: Disguise of the Putrid Aroma (ReAn 5) +12 Soothe the Ferocious Bear (ReAn 10) +12 Viper’s Gaze (ReAn 15) +12 Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +18 (T) Sight of the True Form (InCo 10) +15 (T) Rise of the Feathery Body (ReCo 10) +17 (T) Endurance of the Berserkers (ReCo 15) +17 (T) Conjure the Sturdy Vine (CrHe 5) +17(T) Hunt for the Wild Herb (InHe 5) +11 Phantasm of the Human Form (CrIm 25) +24 Discern Own Illusions (InIm 15) +21 Taste of the Spices and Herbs (MuIm 5) +20 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +25 Disguise of the Transformed Image (MuIm 15) +25 Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10) +31 Removal of the Conspicuous Sigil (PeIm 20) +10 Gather the Essence of the Beast (ReVi 15) +19''
''Beatriz’s Talisman''
''Beatriz’s talisman is in the form of a simple wooden necklace she wears at all times. The bead is of amber and contains the carefully carved image of a crown.''
''Total Pawns Invested: 7; Total Effect Levels: 54;''
''The Ever Changing Guise MuIm 14 Pen +0, 12/day R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual As per the spell Disguise Of The New Visage ArM5, page 146. Beatriz tends to change her physical appearance at whim, with often minor alterations in hairstyle or complexion throughout the day. Outside the covenant she never appears as Beatriz, always adopting a different appearance as a form of disguise. She almost never uses the effect at night, and does not use it when she is alone in her sanctum, so she is not constantly under the effect, and does not gain Warping from it. She does her best to use the effect whenever she is with other people, however. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Sun, 4 Levels 12 Uses a day)''
''The Invisible Eye Revealed InVi 25 Pen +0, 1/day R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Touch As per the spell of the same name in ArM5, page 157. Beatriz often feels others are hostile to her, and this effect reveals scrying magic up to level 50. She uses it infrequently, but sometimes when out and about the covenant, so if Jardin were being spied upon magically Beatriz would probably be the first to realize and notify the other magi. (Effect: Base 20, +1 Concentration)''

|]
''has become romantically smitten. He believes she has the best interests of the covenant at heart, and agrees quietly with her that Lexora, as a pagan, and Xenophanes, with his Cathar sympathies, are real threats to the security of the covenant, who should be quietly persuaded to go elsewhere, preferably outside the Tribunal. He regards Joia’s Garden of Love as little more than reckless folly, and has created the Shield of Dismissal as a way to protect the covenant from the constant visitors. Tragically, he has not yet realized the full extent of Serena’s ambitions. Only Beatriz can be relied upon to support Ahenobarbus in any attempt at reform, and she distrusts Serena, which is driving a wedge between them. Ahenobarbus must answer to Protendus of Aedes Mercurii as his regional commander, as ordered by his own parens in Transylvania who still holds his sigil. Yet he has also been tasked with accumulating evidence of Protendus’ incompetence following the disaster at Lariander, and reporting proof thereof back to Coeris so that his parens can challenge Protendus’ supporters politically in the Transylvanian Tribunal. Knowing he is being used as a pawn in his parens’ game, ultimately simply to embarrass political rivals back home, Ahenobarbus has so far tried to avoid reporting for duty, and Protendus has so far not called upon him, but that situation will not last much longer. Ahenobarbus’ sigil manifests as zig zag lines, and even his Circle spells have sharp and jagged edges when viewed by Intellego Vim magics.''

==Alyssa, Maga Trianomae==

''Alyssa was born into a noble family from the Narbonne region, with whom she still has some contact despite being taken as an apprentice at the age of nine. Alyssa is a cheery soul, quite happy traveling around France and Iberia, trying to sort out local problems and contact Islamic wizards. Her Gentle Gift means she is welcomed when traveling among nobles, and allows her to try to contact non-Hermetic wizards without immediately being hated. Her frequent meddling has caused resentment at a couple of covenants, which has led to a reputation spreading in the Order. She came to Jardin in 1214, following the civil war that had broken out at the covenant of Tolosa Paratge where she had been previously resident. As the most recent arrival, she has little influence on council. Given that her interests lie almost entirely outside the cov''

[|

==Beatriz of House Jerbiton (Cont’d)==

''Whispers Through The Black Gate InCo(Me) 15 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual As per the spell of the same name in ArM5, page 130. (Effect: Base 5, +1 Concentration, +1 Touch,)''
''The talisman also has the following attunements: +3 Corpus +4 affect breathing and speaking +4 affect Dead Wood Beatriz is under the influence of a –5 longevity ritual.''
''Story Seeds for Beatriz''
''Beatriz is a difficult person to be around, yet despite her depressive yet outspokenly bitter and twisted personality, she is very much a victim of the Garden, and most of the Jardin magi feel sorry for her.''
''Story Seed: A Stolen Kiss''
''Every year Beatriz must take a lover to collect the Imaginem vis from her mirror (see Vis Sources, later). Beatriz is incapable of lasting real affection, and although she has many friends among the troubadours men are often put off by her cynicism, dark brooding ways, and often sarcastic manner. When one young man, however, develops strong feelings for Beatriz after their tryst she is at first flattered, and according to Hypatia (who was told by Auranja, who watched while hiding behind a tapestry) she actually smiled once when he sent her a flower and a love poem. After a season of the young man mooching around, however, Beatriz is fed up of his attentions, and even Joia finds him annoying enough to stop trying to steal him away from Beatriz. Beatriz even asks Lexora to eat the young man, but Lexora refuses, saying he would give her indigestion with all that mooning around and sighing. It is clear something must be done. The young man, Jordas is personable enough, but attempts by Joia to change his mind with Mentem magic fail, for no discernible reason, and his passion grows more and more overwhelming and pitiful by the day. Worse still, he is the great nephew of Count Raimond of Toulouse, and was an important rebel commander until he deserted his troops to come and gaze at Beatriz with doe eyes. What is going on, and can he be persuaded to fall for someone else or leave before Beatriz slays him with her shortsword? Or can Beatriz be persuaded to fall in love with him?''
''Story Seed: Fangs In The Night''
''In the distant past terrible things happened at Belfort, and the destruction of the Vandal fort and village by a band of rampaging shapeshifters echoes down to the present day. Beatriz has pieced together from hints in ancient manuscripts the story of how the original settlement was destroyed in one horrific night when what appears to have been a large pack of lycanthropes descended upon it. Lexora knows that, when the pool was Magical, before Joia’s Faerie corruption of it, it was sacred to the Bjornaer, and hotly contested with shapeshifting witches. Those witches were allied with Birna’s Pomeranian tradition, and are even now deadly enemies of House Bjornaer. Both suspect the shapeshifters have returned, and seek to drive the faeries and magi away in order to reclaim the site. They fear some of the shapeshifters are already actively trying to infiltrate Belfort de Quercy. Can the conspiracy be unmasked and the shapeshifters be defeated before they massacre the villagers and assault the covenant?''
''Story Seed: Dreaming Beatriz Back Together Again''
''Lexora plans to travel to Crintera and there be initiated in the secrets of Clan Maruhs. After pursuing The Deed of Emulation (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 13) she learns Dream Magic (The Mysteries Revised Edition, page 102) and develops an audacious plan: to create a spell that will allow her and a few trusted friends to enter the sleeping Beatriz’s dreamscape, and there defeat the horrors haunting her and undo the catastrophic results of her failed Heart’s Quest. It will take a few years of study of Imaginem and hard work for Lexora to be ready, but once she is, she plans a nightmare quest into Beatriz’s psyche, and tries to persuade the player characters to accompany her.''

==Ahenobarbus of Tremere==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per 0, Pre 0, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +2 (1), Dex +1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 65 (34) Decrepitude: 0 (1) Warping Score: 5 (5) Confidence Score: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Cautious Sorcerer, Deft Form (Mentem), Improved Characteristics, Inventive Genius, Magical Focus (certamen)*, Puissant Mentem, Puissant Leadership, Puissant Rego, Unaging, True Friend (Nec)**; Ambitious, Feud; Loose Magic, Proud (minor) * House Virtue ** Virtue from familiar bond. Personality traits: Ambitious +6, Proud +3, Loyal (Nec) +3, Loyal (Coeris) +2. Heart’s Desire: Not known. Ahenobarbus has never entered the Night Garden. Reputations: Hoplite 1 (Order of Hermes) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Kick: Init –2, Attack +4, Defense +1, Damage +3 Dagger: Init –1, Attack +7, Defense +3, Damage +3 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20) Abilities: Artes Liberales 1 (rhetoric), Area Lore: Transylvania (House Tremere) 3, Athletics 1 (jumping), Awareness 2 (clues), Bargain 3 (information), Brawl 3 (dodging), Code of Hermes 3 (Wizards’ War), Concentration 3 (maintaining spells), Finesse 3 (Terram), Guile 2 (spur of the moment), Intrigue 3 (plots), Latin 5 (academic terms), Leadership 3+2 (soldiers), Magic Theory 6 (Mentem), Organization Lore: Church 3 (church officials), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (outlaw wizards), Parma Magica 3 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Mentem), Profession Scribe 3 (copying), Profession: Notary 4 (court cases), South Slavonic 5 (Bulgarian dialect), Arts: Cr 7, In 6, Mu 6, Pe 6, Re 20+3, An 5, Aq 5, Au 5, Co 12, He 5, Ig 5, Im 5, Me 20+3, Te 12, Vi 5 Twilight Scars: People feel slightly awed after talking to him Equipment: Wizardly robes Encumbrance: 0 (0) Spells Known: Mighty Viper’s Gaze (ReAn 20) +34 T, as per Viper’s Gaze but with an extra magnitude for size to include animals up to Size +4 Endurance of the Berserkers (ReCo 15) +40 T Lifting the Dangling Puppet (ReCo 15) +40 T Awaken the Slumbering Corpse (ReCo 25) +40 T The Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35) +42 T Spell''
''Mastery 2 (5) (Fastcasting, Still Casting) Coils of the Entangling Plants (ReHe 20) +34 T Ward Against Heat and Flames (ReIg 25) +30 Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10) +30 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie (InMe 20) +31 The Call to Slumber (ReMe 10) +52 T Aura of Rightful Authority (ReMe 20) +48 Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe 20) +52 T Enslave the Mortal Mind (ReMe 40) +52 T The Shrouded Glen (ReMe 45) +48 Wielding the Invisible Sling (ReTe 10) +41 T The Tremere Trench (ReTe 25) +41 T Watching Ward (ReVi 20) + 30''
''Spells with a T include bonuses from Ahenobarbus’ Talisman. Ahenobarbus has a –6 longevity ritual.''
''New Spells''
''The Tremere Trench ReTe 20 R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Part Digs a trench and piles the earth as a rampart on the other side, creating instantaneous earthworks. The trench can be any depth, width and length equivalent to not more than 1,000 cubic paces of earth, and the rampart created is an equivalent size. The lines of any earthworks created zig zag sharply owing to Ahernobarbus’ sigil. (Base 3, +1 part, +2 voice, +2 size for 1,000 cubic paces of earth displaced)''
''Nec, a White Wolf Familiar''
''Nec is a magnificent huge white she-wolf, who traveled here with Ahenobarbus from the Transylvanian Tribunal. See Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 129. Her pride got her in trouble with the pack of white wolves back in Transylvania, and she was willing to join Ahenobarbus to get away from those problems. She is aware that they are unlikely to have gone away completely, however. She does not accept that Ahenobarbus is in any way her superior, and longs to prove herself superior to Lexora’s heartbeast as well.''
''Magic Might: 10 (Animal) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int +1, Per +3, Pre +1, Com +1, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +1 Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Magic Animal*; Magical Friend*; Improved Characteristics x 5, Long-Winded, Sharp Ears, True Friend (Ahenobarbus)**, Unaffected by The Gift*; Black Sheep, Proud; Careless with Stealth***''
''*From Realms of Power: Magic. ** From familiar bond. *** From Grogs, page 77.''
''Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gigantic, Greater Power; Improved Abilities x 4, Improved Attack x 2, Improved Damage x 3, Improved Defense x 2, Improved Fatigue x 3, Improved Initiative, Improved Powers x 4, Improved Soak, Minor Virtue (Tough); Reduced Might x 8 Personality Traits: Loyal to Ahenobarbus +3, Wolf +3 Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage n/a Bite: Initiative +5, Attack +16, Defense +14, Damage +12 Soak: +7 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1/–1, –3/–3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13– 18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Area Lore: Cahors 6 (covenant lands), Area Lore: Coeris Region 6 (pack territory), Athletics 3 (running), Brawl 6 (bite), Faerie Lore 1 (wolves), Folk Ken 3 (Tremere magi), Hunt 7 (in a pack), Latin**** 5 (Hermetic usage), Magic Lore 1 (wolves), Magic Theory 4 (Mentem), Occitan 4 (peasant speech), Organization Lore: Jardin 4 (familiars), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (House Tremere), Penetration 5 (Mentem), South Slavonic**** 5 (Bulgarian dialect), Stealth 6 (forests), Swim 1 (lakes), Survival 6 (forests). ****Nec can understand human languages, but not speak them. Powers: Theft of Voice, 1 point, Init +10, Mentem Nec can steal the voice of any human with whom she makes eye contact. The effect lasts until the next sunrise. As The Captive Voice, ArM5 page 147. Eyes Like Lanterns, 1 point, Init +7, Mentem Nec can paralyze a victim with terror if she maintains eye contact and the victim fails a Brave personality trait roll against an Ease Factor of 9. The victim may test each round if attacked, shaken or otherwise distracted, requiring a roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to break the effect. (Base 4, +1 Eye, +1 Conc: ReMe 10) Leave No Trace, 0 points, Init +2, Terram While running Nec leaves no tracks upon the earth. As The Trackless Step, ArM5 page 155. Vis: 2 pawns, Animal, in her tail. Gold Cord: 2, Silver Cord: 2, Bronze Cord: 2. Bond Powers: Mental Communication: This operates both ways between Nec and Ahenobarbus and both are able to send complex thoughts, such as images and emotions, to each other.''

==Ahenobarbus of Tremere (Cont’d)==

''This power has unlimited uses. Appearance: A magnificent white wolf with large eyes, Nec is much larger than non-magical wolves.''
''Ahenobarbus’ Talisman''
''Ahenobarbus’ talisman is in the form of a wand with a tip of amber, and a hollow in the handle to contain an Arcane Connection to his laboratory. Total Pawns Invested: 9; Total Effect Levels: 86.''
''The Touch Of Morpheus ReMe 47 Pen +64, 24/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual Touch Range variant of Call To Slumber as in ArM5, page 151. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Voice, +32 for penetration, +5 for 24 uses/day)''
''Take Me Home! ReCo 39 Pen +8, 1/day R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual As Leap of Homecoming ArM5, page 135. The wand’s base contains an Arcane Connection to Ahenobarbus’ laboratory. (Effect: Base 35, +4 levels Penetration)''
''The talisman also has the following attunements: Wand: +4 control things at a distance Amber +3 Corpus''
''The Collars of Slavery''
''Ahenobarbus has prepared two of these invested devices, in the form of small iron collars. He keeps one to ensure captives cooperate fully, then have their memory wiped by his spells. He is considering giving the second as a gift to Protendus, to enable them to learn secrets from hedge wizards.''
''Enslave the Mortal Mind ReMe 44 Pen +0, 2/day, Environmental Trigger R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual''
''As Enslavement of the Mortal Mind in ArM5, page 152, but with range Touch instead of Eye. The person wearing this small iron collar is completely unable to formulate desires, interests, emotions and activities, and responds willingly to suggestions and commands, as they have no will of their own. Once freed he can fully recall all that transpired while collared and will almost certainly seek revenge.''
''Story Seeds for Ahenobarbus and Nec''
''Ahenobarbus and Nec serve House Tremere first, and the covenant second, at least in theory.''
''His Master’s Voice''
''Ahenobarbus’ parens is Janus of Tremere (see Against the Dark, page 28), who took Ahenobarbus as an apprentice when he was already 15. As a result the two men are closer in age than common for a parens and filius, and have an almost sibling rivalry. Janus of Tremere is the Secretary for Contingencies for House Tremere, developing plans for various unlikely scenarios that could, but probably won’t, happen, and as such he often asks Ahenobarbus to undertake duties on behalf of the House. Janus thoroughly approves of Ahenobarbus somehow persuading his Jardin sodales to assist in the plans, as long as they do not realize they are following a Tremere agenda. Some possible examples are:''
''Plan Black Olive: What if the Cathar Church becomes established and replaces the Church as the established religion of Southern Europe? Janus wants to know more about the secretive leaders of each of the relatively new dioceses of the Cathar Church, and if possible gain leverage over them so that the Order can negotiate from a position of strength if the Church’s attempt to suppress the heresy fails. He asks Ahenobarbus to find out the time and place of each bishop’s birth, collect Arcane Connections if possible, and also learn any moral failings or dark secrets these men have, just in case. Plan Gold Olive: Janus thinks it likely the Crusade will exterminate Catharism, and that stories of the secret treasure of the Cathars are nonsense. However, recently the Cathars have started to fortify a fortress called Montsegur in the Pyrenees, access to which is almost impossible for non-Cathars. Janus asks Ahenobarbus to find out the secret of Montsegur, what the Cathar treasure is, if it even exists, and to work out a plan to take Montsegur both magically and also with mundane forces, just in case it ever becomes necessary for the good of House Tremere. Plan Faded Rose: Jardin amuses Janus, who does not believe it poses any kind of threat to House Tremere’s plans.''
''Nonetheless it is standard practice to ask Tremere members of a covenant to work out a plan to quickly take their home if necessary, to detail the weaknesses of both the physical and magical defenses, and to find useful leverage on the individuals within, just in case. Of course such an act can be seen as treachery, and Janus is astute enough to realize Ahenobarbus might lie if he has “gone native”. The story here is mainly about how Ahenobarbus responds to such a request, his moral choices, and whether the agent sent covertly by Janus to see if Ahenobarbus is loyal and has reported honestly can be detected and deceived if necessary. Plan Lost Children: Janus had a friend, Diocletian, who died in the massacre at Lariander (see Faith and Flame). While it is not part of his official duties, Janus is unhappy about House Tremere’s official investigation of the fall of Lariander, and wants Ahenobarbus to investigate the site, speak with any survivors, including Garsenda, the one maga who escaped, and try to work out what really happened that night. In particular, he wants to know if treachery was involved. Plan Buried Talents: Janus sends a chest containing 30 pawns of assorted vis to Ahenobarbus, and asks him to utilize it to further the House’s interests, and report back after seven years on how he has profited House Tremere by his actions with the vis. This is a severe test, for Ahenobarbus must be able to show that he has used it wisely and well and actually achieved something measurable. What, though? Plan Mountain Witch: Janus has found evidence that a powerful coven of Sorginak (Basque witches, see Faith and Flame) have captured some important documents belonging to a House Tremere operative in Iberia, and a Redcap. He wants Ahenobarbus to hunt down the coven leader, and return her and the documents to Coeris for safekeeping. He also wants Ahenobarbus to ensure that the remaining Sorginak become Tremere allies rather than a potential menace. Plan High Mercury: Janus has long suspected that Protendus, Exarch for Tremere in the region, is actually a traitor who is betraying House secrets to the Cult of Mercury at his home covenant of Aedes Mercurii. Janus wants clear evidence of wrongdoing, for he fears that Protendus’ links with the Cult of Mercury are angering parts of House Flambeau, including Primus Garus''

|]
''enant (in particular, seeking a reconciliation between the Hermetic Cathars and their enemies at Toulouse), she has paid little heed to the growing tensions within her new home, and usually votes on council to support Xenophanes on any given issue. She is fully aware he is not at all bright, but she has a soft spot for exotic magi and those from unusual backgrounds, and, like Xenophanes, has much sympathy for the Cathar faith. She has little time for Ahenobarbus because of his relationship with Serena, whom she actively dislikes for her cruelty to the covenfolk, but a great deal of respect for Lexora. Indeed, she might well back the Bjornaer in a leadership bid against Joia. Ultimately Alyssa’s aim is to ensure peace and stability for the covenant, and avoid any conflicts. She has seen only too clearly where that can lead. Alyssa’s sigil manifests as the smell of goat’s cheese.''

==Notable Covenfolk==

''Some of the most important of the mundane inhabitants of Jardin are described here, but the troupe should supplement them to develop their own themes.''

==Companions==

''Only one of the companions associated with Jardin is detailed here. The others include a Jewish banker from Cahors, a romantic troubadour enraptured with Joia, and a dispossessed knight (a faidit) who has taken to little more than banditry in opposition to the Crusade, who often escapes his pursuers by hiding within the covenant walls.''
''Serena Montdumerc, the Other Lady of Jardin''
''The niece of Joia, Serena is the last of the Montdumerc line and heir to the title of lady of Jardin once her aunt Joia dies. She serves as the covenant autocrat, and takes out her frustration at being little more than a glorified servant to the magi upon the covenfolk.''

[|

==Ahenobarbus of Tremere (Cont’d)==

''and his militites, upon whom House Tremere would rely in the event of a House Tytalus attack.''
''The Wolves in the Woods''
''Nec has become the leader of a small pack of wolves who originated in the mountains to the west of the covenant, but who now prowl the woods and open lands around Belfort. Under Nec’s leadership they have kept a low profile, and act as a spy network for Ahenobarbus, watching travelers on the road and reporting strangers in their territory. The villagers of Belfort have come to regard them as quite tame, and on occasion the wolves have''
''helped villagers who have been attacked by bandits or suffered accidents far from home. Nec is now regarded around the village as a sort of large friendly dog, but her pack, while considered harmless, stay in the wilds. This changes when savage attacks by wolves on travelers and even village farmers cause terror among the covenfolk and villagers, and Nec’s pack come to be regarded with terror, and Nec with suspicion. The villagers demand the magi do something, or send Nec and Ahenobarbus away. Beatriz suspects the shapeshifters with whom she is obsessed, but the truth is simpler. The real killer is Galhart, a friendly miller who keeps the waterwheel on the stream a few miles from Belfort, and who every night takes on the form of a wolf''
''following a faerie’s curse. Unfortunately, Galhart has no control over his behavior in lupine form. Nec has been pursuing a passionate affair with this handsome wolf, and half suspects the truth. She has been hiding the concerns of her pack about a strange wolf in their territory from the magi, sure that she can handle the issue if necessary. If the curse is lifted Galhart and Nec still have strong feelings for each other, but are stuck as different species. Can the magi help with this problem?.''

==Serena, Autocrat of Jardin==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +1, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: –1 Age: 31 (31) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Wealthy; Gentlewoman, Inspirational, Puissant Ability (Profession: Autocrat), Social Contacts (French knights), Strong-Willed, Temporal Influence; Ambitious, Difficult Underlings; Covenant Upbringing, Envious, Small Frame Personality Traits: Ambitious +6, Envious +3, Proud +2. Heart’s Desire: To reclaim her rightful home and title as lady of Belfort du Quercy from the magi. Reputations: None Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +0, Defense +0, Damage +0 Kick: Init –1, Attack +0, Defense –1, Damage +3 Soak: +0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Uncon''
''scious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16), Dead (17+) Abilities: Area Lore: County of Toulouse 2 (5) (nobility), Awareness 2 (attractive knights), Bargain 2 (wine), Charm 4 (suitors), Civil and Canon Law 2 (manorial rights), Concentration 2 (brooding), Etiquette 5 (nobility), Folk Ken 1 (covenfolk’s failings), French 3 (noble), Guile 3 (lying to magi), Hunt 2 (falconry), Intrigue 6 (causing distrust), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 3 (covenfolk), Music 2 (singing), Organization Lore: Church 1 (heresy), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (Provençal Quaesitors), Profession: Autocrat 4+2 (threats of punishment), Ride 2 (fast escapes), Occitan 5 (romantic poetry). Equipment: Noble clothing in the latest styles. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: With pale skin and auburn hair, Serena is a great beauty who physically resembles Joia, but is still outshone by the older woman.''

==Alyssa, Maga Trianomae==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per +1, Pre +1, Com +1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: -1 Age: 57 (44) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 4 (2) Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Gentle Gift; Cyclic Magic (positive: spring and summer), Improved Characteristics, Puissant Art (Corpus), Puissant Intrigue*, Self-Confident, True Friend (Fauconrouge)**, Well-Traveled; Meddler (Major); Close Family Ties, Optimistic (Minor), Susceptibility to Faerie Power, Small Frame, Unpredictable Magic Personality traits: Meddler +6, Optimistic +3, Loyal (Fauconrouge) +3, Compassionate +1 Heart’s Desire: Alyssa has not yet quested for her Heart’s Desire Reputations: Educated noble 2 (Nobles), Trouble on two legs 2 (Order of Hermes) Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense +3, Damage n/a Kick: Init –1, Attack +2, Defense +1, Damage +3 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–4), –3 (5–8), –5 (9–12), Incapacitated (13–16) Abilities: Animal Handling 1 (falcons), Arabic 3 (Iberian), Area Lore: Toulouse 3 (magi), Area Lore:Provence 2 (nobility), Artes Liberales 3 (astronomy), Athletics 1 (climbing), Awareness 2 (magic), Bargain 1 (trading favors), Brawl 2 (dodging), Carouse 1 (nobles), Charm 3 (nobles), Code of Hermes 4 (interfering with mundanes), Concentration 2 (maintaining spells), Etiquette 2 (nobles), Finesse 3 (Rego craft magic), Folk Ken 3 (detecting lies), Guile 3 (complex lies), Intrigue 5+2 (scheming), Latin 5 (academic terms), Leadership 2 (magi), Magic Theory 5 (Corpus), Occitan 5 (nobles), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (covenants), Parma Magica 5 (Ignem), Penetration 2 (Corpus), Philosophiae 2 (ritual magic), Profession: Scribe 1 (copying), Riding 2 (riding fast) Arts: Cr 5, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 15, An 9, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 17+3, He 0, Ig 0, Im 5, Me 5, Te 5, Vi 5 Twilight Scars: Goats find her Gift pleasant and calming. Equipment: Flamboyant hat, cloak, ring. Encumbrance: 0(0) Appearance: Alyssa is a petite women of almost childlike appearance with a kind smile and hazel hair and eyes. She prefers practical men’s clothing when traveling, and pays little heed to her appear''
''ance, in contrast to Joia and Beatriz. She wears a tatty black cloak and a hat with bright feather from a peacock over a simple peasant’s dress around the covenant. Spells Known: Panic of the Elephant’s Mouse (ReAn 15) +25 Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +26 Cheating the Reaper (CrCo 30) +26 Whispers Through the Black Gate (InCo(Me) 15) +11 The Inexorable Search (InCo 20) +26 Disguise of the New Visage (MuCo 15) +26 The Mistaken Step (ReCo 30) +36 Seven League Stride (ReCo 30) +36 Leap of Homecoming (ReCo 35) +36 Aura of Ennobled Presence (MuIm 10) +11 Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10) +21 Confusion of the Numbed Will (ReMe 15) +21 Trackless Step (ReTe 10) +21 The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +21 Wielding the Invisible Sling (ReTe 10) +21 Scales of the Magical Weight (InVi 5) +11 Circle of Protection against Demons (ReVi10) +21 Gather the Essence of the Beast (ReVi 15) +21''
''New Spells''
''The Mistaken Step Rego Corpus 30 R: Sight, D: Momentary, T: Individual Instantly moves a target up to 50 paces, at Sight range. Can be used gently, to move people around, or violently, to place them 50 paces in the air and allow them to fall to earth for +75 damage. The caster must be able to see both the starting and finishing locations. (Base 15, +3 Sight)''
''Alyssa’s Ring''
''Alyssa’s talisman is in the form of a golden ring that she wears on her right hand at all times. Total Pawns Invested: 10; Total Effect Levels: 24 Attunement Bonuses: +4 affect wealth, +2 constant effect Endure Pain & Fatigue: ReCo 24 Pen 0, 12/day As Endurance of the Berserkers but Range: Touch and Duration: Diameter. Alyssa uses this power to bestow the ability on any grogs accompanying her if combat appears imminent. (Base 10: Touch +1, Diameter +1, +4 12 Uses/day)''
''Fauconrouge, a Falcon Familiar''
''Magic Might: 24 (Corpus) Season: Summer Characteristics: Int –1, Per +3, Pre –1, Com 0, Str –6, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +6 Size: –3 Confidence Score: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: Magical Animal; Magical Friend; Improved Characteristics x 3, Keen Vision, True Friend (Alyssa)*; Fish Out of Water (flying)**, Fragile Constitution, Reckless  * From familiar bond  ** Grogs, page 80 Magical Qualities and Inferiorities: Gift Of Speech, Improved Abilities, Improved Confidence, Improved Defense x 3 (Talons), Improved Initiative x 3 (Talons), Improved Fatigue, Improved Might x 4, Improved Soak, Personal Power x 2 Combat Beak: Init +6, Attack +9, Defense +11, Damage –5 Talons: Init +14, Attack +9, Defense +20, Damage –4 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–2), –3 (3–4), –5 (5–6), Incapacitated (7–8), Dead (9+) Abilities: Arabic 3 (Iberian), Area Lore: County of Toulouse 2 (flight routes), Athletics 7 (swift flight), Awareness 6 (spotting prey), Brawl 4 (talons), Hunt 5 (game birds), Magic Lore 1 (animals), Magic Theory 2 (spells), Occitan 5 (nobles), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (familiars), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (House Bonisagus), Latin 5 (academic terms), Survival 3 (cold climes) Powers: Human Shape: 1 point, Init +4, Corpus Fauconrouge can take human shape. Each transformation has Duration Sun. (Realms of Power: Magic, page 39) Iron Grip of the Raptor: 0 points, Init +4, Terram, This allows Fauconrouge to manipulate and carry items as if he had human hands and a Strength of +5. Fauconrouge must concentrate to do anything other than carry the object, including dropping it. Rego Terram 15 (Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Const) Personal Power 15 levels, Might cost reduced by 2. Cord Scores: Gold +1, Silver +2, Bronze +2 (Binding Total 35) Bond Powers: Mental Communication: Alyssa and Fauconrouge have a constant mental link that is sophisticated enough to transmit complex images and emotions. Vis: 5 pawns of Corpus, in talons. Appearance: A magnificent red gyrfalcon.''

|]
''She is vain, and bitterly resents Joia’s beauty. Her threats of horrible punishments and abuse of the covenfolk have tuned many against her, but few dare stand up to her. Recently she has moved into the tower, where she possesses rooms on the ground floor, and has a troubled relationship with Ahenobarbus. She likes to think she plans to use him as a pawn in her revenge, and she feels she could never truly love a magus, but the affection between the two is genuine.''
''Serena costs 6 build points.''

==Grogs==

''The grogs of Jardin are drawn from the village of Belfort, and few of them have much military experience. Despite Rosamonde, the turb leader’s, best efforts, and Ahenobarbus’ attempt to instill some degree of discipline and improve their arms and armor, they are a rather hapless collection of eccentrics. Three wear partial leather, carry bows, shield and a short spear, and serve as scouts, and three''
''have partial scale, poleaxes and daggers, and serve primarily as shield grogs.''
''Rosamonde Unaud, Turb Captain''
''Rosamonde leads the turb. Now in her forties, Rosamonde is deeply troubled by arthritis and is slowing up, but is unwilling to relinquish command just yet, in the absence of an obvious female successor among the grogs. She prefers not to leave her home now, and never travels more than a day from the covenant.''
''Rosamonde costs 8 build points.''

==Specialists and Other Covenfolk==

''A number of specialists and servants complete the staff of the covenant.''
''Specialists''
''John the Gardener is an attractive young man of 27, with an eye for the ladies. Always cheerful, he works hard to maintain the gardens in good order, and if he has one fault it is that he treats the magi as his equals, and fears no one. Serena has a soft spot for him, and leaves him alone. His Abilities are: Animal Handling 2 (mules), Athletics 2 (contortions), Awareness 1 (unusual plants), Bargain 1 (plants), Brawl 2 (Fist), Carouse 1 (seduction of betters), Charm 1 (female magi), Craft: Gardener 5 (topiary), Craft: Winemaking 4 (black wines), Etiquette 2 (magi), Folk Ken 1(covenfolk), Latin 4 (speaking to magi), Leadership 1 (in gardens), Occitan 5 (gardening terms), Organization Lore: Jardin 2 (gardens), Profession: Viticulturist 4, Teaching 3, and Swim 2 (diving). His Communication is +2, and he costs 5 build points. Bohella the Librarian (aged 52) is an elderly woman who has served the covenant well for twenty five years now. Her knowledge of the covenant’s history is better than anyone but Joia and Lexora’s, and she has Profession: Librarian 9 (preserve books) and Organization Lore: Jardin''

[|

==Alyssa, Maga Trianomae (Cont’d)==

''Story Seeds for Alyssa and Fauconrouge''
''Alyssa’s past and current wanderings are perfect for drawing the covenant into stories.''
''Story Seed: Guerrilla Warfare''
''Alyssa is from Paratge Tolosa, the ancient and cultured Toulouse covenant now immersed in a violent civil war and magical siege. The Cathar sympathizers (Black faction) are trapped within their island regio, while their White rivals control the streets of the town. Alyssa has for some time now been raiding the Whites’ vis sources, attempting to deprive them of magical resources. This is a flagrant violation of the Code, given that she has now joined Jardin and no longer has any right to those resources. With the thirty or more pawns of vis she has stockpiled as an incentive, Alyssa seeks magi who are willing to declare a Wizard’s War against the White leader, the charismatic but young magus Carolus St. Tropez. She has also taken to conducting harassing operations against Carolus, Adam Carpentiere and the other White faction magi. While she tries to keep her activities secret, she is actively looking for recruits who are open to participating in the magical civil war that rages''
''in the city, and who can enter, raid the besiegers’ positions, and then retreat again, leaving no traces for any Quaesitorial investigation to uncover.''
''Story Seed: The Curse of Venus''
''It is notable that every time Alyssa has had a chance to kill or utterly defeat Carolus St. Tropez, leader of the White faction of the Tolosa Paratge magi, she has allowed him to escape, despite his youth and relative lack of magical prowess. The dashing Carolus suffers from the Flaw Curse of Venus, and inevitably Alyssa has fallen in love with him. She wishes to save him from his “bad friends” and poor choices. She hatches a plan, convinced that Carolus is secretly in love with her too, to kidnap him from Castle Pujol and bring him back to Jardin, where she hopes he will quest for his Heart’s Desire and find it is actually Alyssa. To this end she needs friends who will help her capture Carolus unharmed, bring him home, and then somehow smuggle him in to the Night Garden, all without Joia’s consent. This plan is typical of Alyssa, who can never see any situation or argument develop without firmly believing that it will be greatly improved by her personal intervention. Unfortunately, Carolus''
''is well aware that Alyssa is an enemy who has been conducting a series of raids on his vis stores and fomenting magical warfare on the streets of Toulouse against his men. Given the paranoia involved in his successfully conducting the siege of Paratge Tolosa the raid will be dangerous and difficult, as Castle Pujol is defended with many magical traps.''
''Story Seed: A Hint of Lavender''
''Fauconrouge converses with other hawks from time to time, and has recently learned that the Isles d’ Yf have become home to a group of Muslim wizards, seemingly practicing Hermetic magic. The region was for centuries blighted by the rogue Moorish covenant known as Fraxinetum, who were defeated by the alliance that became the Coenobium (see Faith and Flame: The Provençal Tribunal). Whoever these secretive Moorish magi may be, Alyssa is determined to seek them out in her role as a maga Trianomae, and help them gain official recognition as a Provençal covenant. It has not occurred to her yet that neither they, House Flambeau, nor the powerful federation of covenants called the Coenobium may fully appreciate her plans, and that she is rushing headlong in to a potentially dangerous situation.''

|]
''8 (history) among her many Abilities. Her Communication is +3. and she costs 9 build points. Sicart the Scribe is responsible for preparing inks, vellum, and book binding, and teaching magi and apprentices Profession: Scribe. Now 48 years old, he was once a grog, and before that a tinker, and is never far from his trusty pots and pans, in which he mixes inks. Notoriously short-sighted, he has Communication +1, Teaching 4 (apprentices) and Profession: Scribe 6 (copying). He costs 11 build points.''
''Servants''
''The servants are efficient, courteous and clean. They serve dutifully, and a position at the covenant is highly valued by the inhabitants of Belfort, but Serena’s threats of punishment and terrible rages have recently caused a loss of morale, and some resentment.''

==Covenant Organization==

''The covenant is ruled by a Council of Magi, with no real positions or titles. While everyone has one vote, Joia has nominal leadership based upon her family claim to Jardin and her personal charm.''
''Hierarchy and Governance''
''Jardin is ruled by a Council of Magi. The Council meets at least once a season, in the Council Chamber in the library, and makes rulings regarding matters of external relations, listens to a report from Serena the autocrat, and votes on special expenditures of vis, as well as approving plans for seasons of covenant service (see below). The Council employs a system of precedence, with the First Maga being the person who first became resident at covenant. Relatively young magi apprenticed at the covenant therefore often wield more influence than much older and more powerful magi, as the date is taken from the time they were first resident, not from the date of Gauntlet. Precedence is used in the selection of vis from the stocks, selection of books in the library for study, and allocation of mundane and magical resources, with the First Maga choosing first and so on. The magi are presented above in order of precedence.''

==Life at Jardin==

''Life at Jardin is generally sleepy, some would say idyllic, but the struggle for leadership between Joia, Lexora, and Serena has a subtle impact on almost every aspect of day to day life. It is somehow assumed that women will always rule here, and no one, not even Ahenobarbus, has ever seriously questioned this fact. It may be related to the very magic of the place.''
''The Charter''
''The Provençal Tribunal is unusual in that by the Peripheral Code a covenant charter, once accepted and sworn to, is a legal obligation, and breaking the charter can and has been prosecuted as a Low Crime at Tribunal. This makes the stipulations of the charter of even more importance than in many Tribunals, as outsiders can be asked to rule on whether if it is upheld, rather than this being a purely internal matter. Each maga of Jardin is expected to spend one season a year in the service of the covenant. What is acceptable service varies upon perceived needs. New suggestions for types of service must be approved by a Council vote, and such approval may be subsequently be withdrawn by a second Council vote. At the moment the following are acceptable as covenant service and no new vote is required, simply the declaration''

[|

==Rosamonde Unaud, Turb Captain==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre +2, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +1 (1), Dex +1 (1), Qik +1 (1) Size: 0 Age: 40 (40) Decrepitude: 0 (3) Warping Score: 0 (0) Virtues and Flaws: Affinity with Great Weapon, Custos, Inspirational; Arthritis, Poor Memory (Faces), No Sense of Direction Personality Traits: Homeloving +3, Loyal +2, Weary +1 Heart’s Desire: To live out her years at Belfort du Quercy Reputations: N/A Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +5, Damage –n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +2 Kick: Init –2, Attack +4, Defense +3, Damage +5 Dagger: Init –1, Attack +6, Defense +4, Damage +5 Javelin: Init –1, Attack +7, Defense +5, Damage +7 Pole Axe: Init +2, Attack +14, Defense +11, Damage +10 Bow, Short: Init -2, Attack +8, Defense +5, Damage +7 Soak: +10 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Awareness 3 (bodyguarding), Brawl 3 (dodge), Bows 3 (short bow), Carouse 3 (warriors), Craft: Gardening 1 (roses), Craft: Weaponry 3 (polearms), Etiquette 2 (nobility), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), Great Weapon 8 (pole arm), Guile 1 (lying to authority), Intrigue 1 (gossip), Leadership 5 (grogs), Latin 3 (Hermetic usage), Occitan 5 (cursing), Organization Lore: Jardin 3 (personalities), Thrown Weapon 3 (javelin), Teaching 4 (Great Weapon), Swim 2 (pool), Stealth 1 (covenant grounds), Survival 1 (when lost). Equipment: Full Chain Mail (Protection: 9); pole axe, short bow, javelin, dagger, quiver of arrows (6) Encumbrance: 3 (burden 4) Appearance: Although Rosamonde is still a muscular woman, her greying hair and creaking bones testify to her age and arthritis.''

==Story Seed: No More Gardening?==

''Lexora has long opposed Joia’s expenditure of covenant resources and time on the Garden of Love, but Xenophanes is a strong supporter, and Ahenobarbus is influenced by Serena to maintain the project. If Lexora can find support on Council to rule that tending the garden is no longer acceptable as covenant service, the time Joia and Xenophanes can spend gardening diminishes, and the Garden grows wild and untended. Strange effects begin to arise as neglected love alters the covenant aura, and romances between covenfolk break down acrimoniously. The inhabitants of the regio become even more wild and dangerous, and occasionally emerge to set things right, or perhaps the regio slowly becomes increasingly hard to access. Hatred and open conflict in the covenant increase as love turns sour. In the long run the aura will revert to Magic, but in the short term the thwarted faeries will seek vengeance.''

|]
''that of what service will be performed that year.  • Writing Laboratory Texts for the library • Writing tractatus or summae for the library • Copying any of the aforementioned for trading with other covenants to enrich the library • Making enchanted devices for the benefit of the covenant, vineyards or gardens • Maintaining the gardens or vineyards • Making a longevity ritual for one’s self • Setting up a new laboratory • Extracting vis or collecting vis for the stocks, the latter only if it takes more than ten days • Training an apprentice • Teaching spells, Arts or Abilities to other magi or covenfolk''
''By tradition a maga may choose to not perform covenant service in any given year, but is then expected to donate back the vis she would otherwise be entitled to. In reality she is simply assigned no vis. Only Lexora has commonly chosen to do this. Each maga in good standing receives four pawns of vis a year, in addition to any vis required for making enchanted devices for the covenant under the terms of covenant service. She is afforded the protection of the Aegis''
''and grogs, access to the library, and the sum of five pounds of silver a year to dispose of however she may wish. Newly gauntleted apprentices from the covenant who choose to leave to establish a new covenant are by tradition granted one pawn of vis per year they were trained at Jardin, the sum of fifty pounds of silver, and up to two years free copying rights in the Library to help them establish their new home. This does not apply if they leave to join an existing covenant, however. In addition to covenant service, Jardin expects resident magae to assist in the collection of the vis sources and if present participate in Council meetings. The covenant charter also explicitly requires magae to obey the Code of Hermes and specifies that any maga convicted of a Low Crime by a lawfully constituted Tribunal will be asked to leave the covenant. So far, this has never occurred, and if it did there would be considerable controversy, especially if it was believed by most of the magae that the judgment was unfair or the offense slight. A recent addition to the covenant charter brought in only last year in the light of the situation at Tolosa Paratge requires that magae swear to never declare Wizard’s War on a fellow covenant member, or use Certamen to overturn a ruling agreed by Council. While the Council passed the item (with Ahenobarbus and Lexora''
''opposing), it was agreed that these provisions do not apply to those who have already sworn the covenant charter, and thus currently apply to none of the inhabitants of the covenant.''

==Covenant Buildings==

''The ancient walls of the fort are crumbling, but the structures within are in good repair.''

==Environment==

''The beautiful gardens of Jardin make the covenant a blaze of color, a perfumed paradise of subtle scents and astonishing beauty. Everything is well tended, and the garden is a pale echo of lost Eden.''

==Main Structures==

''The map of the covenant shows the layout of the buildings. All are within the protection of the dilapidated walls of the ancient fortress.''
''The Library''
''The library building is an impressive three story red brick structure with a shining copper dome, clearly visible from the road below over the walls of the Visigothic fort. The layout and contents are described in detail later.''
''The Tower''
''The tower has four floors, linked by a spiral staircase. The ground floor is Serena’s quarters, and a small guard chamber just inside the main doors. Stairs lead up to Beatriz’s laboratory, and from there to the third floor which is Joia’s sanctum. Finally, the top floor is Joia’s laboratory.''
''The Guesthouse''
''Once the manor house of the Montdumerc family, this building is a three floor red brick town house of a style not dissimilar to those of the prosperous merchants of Cahors. Serena maintains rooms here to entertain guests, but mainly it is used as a guest house with the upper floors providing four large sleeping rooms for important visitors. The top floor is divided in two, the sanctums of Alyssa and Ahenobarbus.''
''The Kitchen''
''The brick built kitchen doubles as a bakehouse, and is carefully watched as a fire risk. Food is prepared here and served in the guesthouse hall or in the sancta of magae as they prefer. Lexora never eats publicly, and Xenophanes very rarely joins the table.''
''The Laboratories''
''Joia and Beatriz maintain laboratories in the tower, but the laboratories of the other magi are stone buildings built against the walls of the fortress. All are described later.''
''The Gardens''
''The whole of the fortress’ interior is laid out as beautiful gardens, with lawns and sandy paths, and even a fountain playing. The Faerie aura makes the garden seem intensely vibrant and even more beautiful than it would be otherwise, and on a summer’s day it takes the breath away, seeming like a paradise on Earth. Only clergy are immune to its charm, for they recall all too well how the Garden of Eden led to death and misery when woman tempted man for the first time. Strange talking animals and butterflies that change color with the emotions of those resting here are often glimpsed within its walls.''
''The Bower''
''One corner of the fort is filled with wild roses, which grow in tangled heaps over jumbled rocks, and a few leafy trees, and this spot, popular with lovers, is known as the bower. Joia likes to sit here and sew on a mossy rock, awaiting her lovers.''
''The Door Marked Summer''
''In the wall of the fort is a peculiar door, built in to the thickness of the ancient stone. Painted sky blue, if a character looks at it''
''through the corner of her eye it seems to open into a beautiful garden in the height of summer, regardless of the time of day or season. This is the entrance to the first level of the regio and is always kept locked. Only a true lover, as judged by Joia, will be allowed to pass through, and Joia carries the key at all times. Those deemed worthy are allowed to enter the Garden of Love, and undertake the quest for their heart’s desire.''

==The Garden of Love==

''The Garden of Love is a powerful Faerie regio, shaped by the dreams of the magi, the plans of Joia, and hard work and mundane craftsmanship. Its deeper levels are dangerous, and sometimes frightening, and the magi rarely go there. Even Joia knows little of its mysteries or inhabitants.''

==The Summer Garden (Regio, Faerie Aura 5)==

''Crossing over into the regio takes characters to a level 5 Faerie aura. While still apparently on the ridge, it now appears that they are in a fabulous walled garden that mirrors the fortress just left behind in general layout. Where the library stands in the mundane world is a great pool of water. The location''
''of the tower holds a maze of dark and rustling hedges, and overhead the sun blazes upon a beautiful summer garden filled with avenues of shady trees, statues of classical goddesses, and beautiful flowers and shrubs. Troubadours favored by Joia are occasionally invited to recite and sing for selected guests here at some of Joia’s famous entertainments, and magic is openly used by her to dazzle the guests senses and fill their hearts with joy. The bower still exists, but in a mirrored position, and now it is deeper, and more mysterious.''
''The Pool''
''No longer present in the mundane world, the pool is a powerful initiatory site for Bjornaer magi with sanguine Heartbeasts. The moss-covered rocks around the pool contain strange Visigothic magic relating to an ancient shapechanging tradition, and this is also a holy site for many shapechangers.''
''The Maze''
''The maze is a proper maze, not a labyrinth, and leads to the next level of the regio. Hedge mazes have only just come into fashion, and this maze, created by Xenophanes with exquisite topiary, guards the entrance to the dangerous Night Garden. While the Garden of Love’s outer Summer regio is a place of joy and idleness, the Night Garden contains the secrets of the heart, and only those Joia considers ready for the quest to find their Heart’s Desire (and some unfortunate grogs and covenfolk sent to gather vis) are ever allowed to enter. The center of the maze is a tree with beautiful shining fruit, but there is''
''no mundane way to reach it, and even if the fruit were somehow attained it is a deadly poison. The way to pass on to the next level is simply to become lost within the maze.''

==The Night Garden (Regio, Faerie Aura 7)==

''Overhead a full moon stands high in a balmy summer night sky. A gentle breeze seems to whisper soft secrets, and caress the skin; all around the garden rustles with life, but furtive, secret life. Dark eerie shadows are cast by the trees — the night garden is a frightening place. Emerging from the maze, the walls seem distant, further away than in the previous level, and it is impossible to see far, so tangled and wild are the briars and trees. All around is lush vegetation, and paths that wind among great moss-covered rocks, through grassy clearings filled with bluebells, and by tiny brooks that flow nowhere and end in deep, perhaps bottomless, pools. Wandering through the Night Garden brings one to all kinds of exotic flowers, plants and strange sights. None of these are created or tended by the magi, who avoid entering this level of the regio as far as possible. Magical monsters and strange beings live here, and they can be deadly, although they are shy and rarely encountered. These beings are often allegorical representations of the personality flaws, fears and problems that separate the quester from her Heart’s Desire, but very few are self aware enough to realize this. Because the inhabitants vary so much, taking on forms appropriate to the''
''quester, they are not detailed here, but several must be overcome by anyone questing for their Heart’s Desire, and the storyguide should create appropriate challenges.''
''The Lake''
''The path to the lake can only be found by those seeking their Heart’s Desire. No one who has attempted the quest and failed, or completed it before, can ever find their way back again. Those who qualify, however, eventually stumble upon the Lake. The pool on this level becomes a great lake of black water. No fish swim in it, no ripples disturb it. Across the lake on an island can be seen the bower, and it is there that one can find the secret of one’s Heart’s Desire. Anyone foolhardy enough to enter the lake itself finds only inky blackness and a few have been forever lost, drowned in the depths. A small boat is moored nearby, and can be used to cross the lake using the paddle within, but it is only large enough for one character at a time, regardless of their Size. Attempts to fly over, swim across, or use magic to cross over to the other shore work (although the character is still attacked as soon as they land on the island – see later), but characters find themselves completely alone, even if they crossed with others. While crossing the lake the character is suddenly lost to sight in mist, and attacked by her own emotions. Only characters with the Virtue True Love succeed automatically in the crossing, and they have no need to quest for their Heart’s Desire, for they have found it already. Losing the fight, or being wounded, has grave consequences. Once the monster''
''is defeated, or the quester Incapacitated or Dead, or has somehow fled the garden, the consequences of wounds she has suffered in the fight must be assessed.''
''• If Dead, she is just that, and is never seen again, perhaps drowned in the lake. • If Incapacitated she awakens in the Garden of Love, but suffers a Major Flaw or two Minor Flaws representing her utter loss of self-respect and any hope of obtaining what she seeks: perhaps she realizes she has already possessed her Heart’s Desire, and lost it. Suitable Flaws include but are not limited to Curse of Venus, Fury, Low Self-Esteem, or Lost Love; or two Minor Flaws from Compulsion, Delusion, Depressed, Obsessed, Oversensitive, Pessimistic, Weakness, Weak Willed, or Wrathful. Her Personality Traits should be adjusted to reflect the character’s new, darker, perspective on life. • If her worst wound was a Heavy Wound, but she defeated her emotions, she emerges on the island’s shore, and finds herself''
''able to enter The Bower of Your Heart’s Desire. Regardless of the number of such wounds suffered, she receives one new Minor Personality Flaw, freely chosen by the player to represent the character’s insights. If the Personality Trait she fought was a Flaw, she replaces that Flaw with the new Personality Flaw: a Major becomes a Major, a Minor, a Minor. It may not be the same Flaw she defeated. • If her worst wound was a Medium Wound, but she defeated her emotions, she emerges on the island’s shore, and finds herself able to enter The Bower of Your Heart’s Desire. She gains a Confidence Point, and may remove any Flaw the Personality Trait she defeated was based upon, and reassign Personality Traits as required. • If the worst wound received was a Light Wound, the character removes the Flaw (as for a Medium Wound) if applicable, and gains 3 Confidence Points. She arrives on the shore and proceeds to The Bower of Your Heart’s Desire. The player should adjust her Personality Trait''
''values to reflect her new insights. • If the character faced off her fears without being wounded in any way, she gains the Virtue Self Confident (and grogs gain a Confidence Score of 1) and arrives on the shore and proceeds to The Bower of Your Heart’s Desire. The player should adjust her Personality Trait values to reflect her new insights.''
''The Bower of Your Heart’s Desire''
''If a quester succeeds in overcoming all challenges, she finds herself on the shore of the island, and recognizes the woods in front of her as the bower from the Garden of Love. There a pale maiden awaits her, garbed in noble dress, and she kisses her once before whispering the secret of her Heart’s Desire. The character then awakes in the bower in the Garden of Love, and a changed person sets out with new purpose to re-enter life. She now knows the one thing her life is intended for, and most questers set out to achieve it.''

[|

==Fighting One’s Emotions==

''First, it is important for the player to decide which of his character’s Personality Traits is most likely to be an obstacle to the discovery of her Heart’s Desire. If the character has no Personality Trait that can be categorized as a suitable emotion, she finds herself instead assaulted by Reason, an embodiment of how rationality is defending her from Love, and you should substitute Intelligence for the personality trait in calculating her opponent’s statistics. The figure who attacks her on the lake is an allegorical personification of her resistance to Love, so no description can be given. Her wrath may be a knight in red armor, lust a fearsome succubus, or envy a green eyed monster. Whatever the appearance, the creature has combat statistics calculated as follows''
''Initiative (equal to Personality Trait) Attack (Personality Trait times 3) Defense (9+Personality Trait) Damage (equal to Personality Trait) and Soak (Personality Trait +1) It has no Fatigue Levels, and Body Levels OK, 0 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Dead (16+). The creature has a Faerie Might of 50. A normal combat is fought, and while spells can be cast this is a fierce hand-tohand struggle, though any weapon or enchanted device carried can be employed. However, while normal combat statistics for the weapon employed are used, the weapon Ability score is not. Substitute any appropri''
''ate Ability, Virtue or personality trait that can be used to oppose the attacking emotion; this Ability can be employed as if it were the relevant weapon Ability. Minor Virtues grant an Ability of 3 for calculating combat totals, Major Virtues 9. Armor provides no Protection here, but Soak does, and shields can be employed as normal to boost Defense totals. Example: Beatriz fought her own stubbornness in the form of a magical mule here. It ran across the lake and tried to kick her from the boat. At the time her stubbornness was at +3, so the Mule looked like this Init +3 Atk +9 Def +12 Damage +3 Soak +4 Beatriz had brought her sword, in which she is unskilled, and her usual combat totals are Sword, Init +1, Attack +1, Defense +1, Damage +6. She considered using her Strong Willed Minor Virtue to add 3 to Attack and Defense, but the storyguide ruled that was little use against her stubbornness. None of her Abilities seemed appropriate to substitute for Single Weapon, so she argued that her Minor Magical Focus (changing own appearance) showed she could change her mind and overcome her stubbornness, and this was accepted. A minor virtue grants a “Single Weapon” ability of 3, so her final statistics were Init +1, Attack +4, Defense +4, Damage +6. Despite using her Confidence points she lost the battle, and suffered the loss of her self esteem, resulting in Beatriz as we know her today.''

==Attaining Your Heart’s Desire==

''The discovery of her Heart’s Desire changes a character radically. While those who emerge dangerously mad or obsessed are sometimes helped by the Perdo Mentem magics of the magi to make them forget what they have learned, most are positively changed. Characters Tainted with Evil or linked to the Infernal Realm may find ghastly secrets, and usually become dangerous, although some find the inner strength to overcome this evil; everyone else simply finds the one thing they always cared about. This is a decision for the character’s player, as it will shape the character, and may be as grandiose as “To Conquer the World!” (granting a Major Personality Flaw of Obsession) or as simple as “to be happy”, which might grant the Personality Flaw Carefree. A new Virtue or even Flaw may be granted to reflect the character’s change in perspective, for this is essentially a non-Hermetic initiatory quest analogous to those practiced by the Mystery Houses or Esoteric Mystery Cults (see The Mysteries Revised Edition). No more than one Virtue should be granted, and in some cases none, merely a new direction in life, but the discovery of one’s Heart’s Desire should mark a new chapter in the character’s story. Whether this is a real expression of the character’s Heart Desire, or some subtle faerie ploy, is unknown to the magi.''

|]

==Laboratories==

''Jardin has eight laboratories, with six currently in use. Some of the magi have customized their laboratories in certain ways. Full details are given at the end of each laboratory’s description using the rules given in Covenants, but if your troupe is not using that book the following descriptions detail all the bonuses and penalties the maga gains from her laboratory. If you wish to add more magi to Jardin, but not remove any of the existing characters, the two spare laboratories are assigned first (see The Guest Laboratories later). Another similar building is currently used for storage and can be adapted with two seasons’ work to house a third magus, and the stables could also be converted if need be to allow a fourth, but new stables would have to be constructed outside the walls of the fort, probably in the village. However, it is more likely that the Council would draw the line at nine laboratories for expense reasons, and demand that new magi share laboratory space, using the same laboratory in different seasons. Such a situation is filled with potential for conflict and stories. It is quite possible that Alyssa would allow her laboratory to be used while she is away traveling, and this may ease the problem a little, but would place the maga in question in her debt.''
''Joia du Lua’s Laboratory''
''Characteristics: Refinement +3, Size:+0 Virtues/Flaws: Elevated, Highly Organized, Superior Construction; Lesser Feature (Lofty Ceiling), Lesser Feature (Window), Potted Plants. General Quality +1, Upkeep +1, Safety +4, Warping 0, Health 0, Aesthetics +5, Bonuses: +3 Auram, +1 Herbam.  Cost: 30 BP''
''On the top floor of the tower, Joia’s laboratory has a commanding view from its magnificent glazed window, through which one can clearly see the Garden of Love. Overhead is the dome of the tower, and within the laboratory the brightly painted and beautifully carved wooden beams in the very high ceiling add to the feeling of space and airiness. When entering the lab for the first time one is almost overwhelmed by the heady perfume of flowers; potted plants are everywhere, and the room is a beautiful riot of bright color from the hundreds of gorgeous flowers. Despite this profusion of plants and magically created blooms, the work space is immaculately organized, and everything has its place clearly set out. The room is 500 square feet''
''in floor area, being a circular room 25 feet across. Joia’s lab reduces her botch dice for work here by four dice, and grants a +1 bonus to her Laboratory Totals, and additional bonuses of +3 to Auram and +1 to Herbam totals. The laboratory belonged to Humbert de Cavirac before his death, but Joia has renovated it and made it her own.''
''Lexora’s Laboratory''
''Characteristics: Refinement +2, Size +0 Virtues/Flaws: Highly Organized, Lesser Feature (Animal Pen), Menagerie; Dirty. General Quality:+1, Upkeep +1, Safety +1 Warping 0, Health –1, Aesthetics –2, Bonuses: +1 Perdo, +3 Animal  Cost: 20 BP''
''Lexora’s laboratory is filthy, but given the animals she keeps within it that is little surprise. It is in one of the stone buildings that line the inside of the fort’s walls, and you can smell it before you open the door. Inside, birds fly around the rafters, cats and dogs compete for space by the fireplace, and there is even a small pond, which is home to brightly colored fish and amphibians. The buzz of insects, the fetid smell of urine and excrement, and the occasional fight between two residents all add to the apparent confusion, which is just how Lexora likes it. The maga knows every inch of her territory, and the animals respect, or perhaps fear, her, and stay out of the way when she is working. What to others appears like chaos is in fact a highly organized workspace for the Bjornaer maga. There is a carefully designed animal pen to hold recalcitrant subjects, and Lexora has in the past had wolves, boars, and even a stag as ‘house guests’ in the laboratory, though she rarely denies them their freedom for long. Unfortunately the conditions are so unpleasant that Lexora’s health suffers as a result; she has a –1 penalty on Recovery rolls in any year where she spends two seasons working here. However, this unusual workspace grants +1 to Lab Totals, and additional bonuses of +3 to Animal and +1 to Perdo Laboratory Totals. Lexora knows her laboratory so well she has one fewer botch dice on rolls here.''
''Xenophanes’ Laboratory''
''Characteristics: Refinement +1, Size +0 Virtues/Flaws: Living Quarters. General Quality +1, Upkeep 0, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health –2, Aesthetics –2  Cost: 10 BP''
''Housed in one of the stone buildings that line the fort’s walls, Xenophanes laboratory is rather austere, and he chooses to live within it. His simple straw sleeping mat, meager possessions and a single wooden stool lie in a corner, often with discarded bowls from his last meal, though he is scrupulous in emptying his chamber pot before inviting the very rare guest into his sanctum. Living in one’s laboratory is far from ideal, but for some reason Xenophanes insists upon it. He receives a +1 bonus to Laboratory Totals despite the inconvenience of having the same living and work space, but the effects on his health are severe. He receives –2 to all Recovery rolls and a –1 penalty to his to Aging rolls.''
''Ahenobarbus’ Laboratory''
''Ahenobarbus has a lab in the building between those of Xenophanes and Lexora. Since setting it up he has done nothing to refine, improve or personalize it, and it is a standard laboratory in every respect. It suits his needs for now, and he may well improve it soon if time allows.''
''Beatriz’s Laboratory''
''Characteristics: Refinement +2, Size +0 Virtues/Flaws: Highly Organized, Spotless; Greater Feature (Mirror), Living Quarters; Missing Equipment (Binding Familiar, Teaching), Missing Ingredients (Perdo), Undecorated. General Quality +2, Upkeep -3, Safety 0, Warping 0, Health –1, Aesthetics 0, Bonuses: +2 Imaginem, +1 Creo. Penalty: All Perdo totals Halved (and then halved again by Beatriz’s Deficient Technique: Perdo)  Cost: 10 BP''
''Occupying the space below Joia’s sanctum and laboratory in the tower, Beatriz’s laboratory is the one she was taught in during her apprenticeship before Joia moved upstairs after the death of Humbert. Beatriz has painted over the fine murals, thrown out the desks and apprentice training materials, and discarded all the potted plants, as if trying to expunge all memory of the unhappy years she spent in the room. Unfortunately she has done nothing to improve the laboratory in this process, and in personalizing it has managed to bring something of her own Deficiency with Perdo to the laboratory: the supplies for work in that Technique are woefully inadequate. Annoyed at Serena taking over Joia’s old living quarters in the rooms below, Beatriz lives in her laboratory like''
''Xenophanes, and has installed a bed, table and chairs, and a few other furnishings. To allow her to work in the confined space that remains she keeps the room carefully organized and spotlessly clean, and has thrown out much of the equipment used in binding a familiar, as she has no current plans in that direction. As a result she is completely unable to bind a familiar or teach in this laboratory at present. All Perdo lab totals are halved (so effectively quartered with her Deficient Technique: Perdo), though some expenditure of silver and a journey to Toulouse or Cahors to acquire supplies and replace the missing ingredients could rectify this in a few days. Beatriz’s laboratory does however contain one impressive item: a magnificent full length mirror, curved to fit the wall, and beautifully framed, that casts a subtly distorted reflection. It is Beatriz’s pride and joy, and grants her +2 to Imaginem Laboratory Totals. The laboratory also grants a +1 to Creo. In addition, the general quality of the laboratory despite Beatriz’s efforts remains high, and it grants her an additional +2 bonus to all Laboratory Totals, cumulative with the other bonuses. However, it is very unhealthy to live surrounded by magical ingredients in such a confined space, and Beatriz suffers a –1 penalty to Recovery rolls.''
''Alyssa’s Laboratory''
''Alyssa has a laboratory in a stone building near the main gate, built against the fort’s wall. Since arriving she has set it up and personalized it to the normal standard, but it is in every way a very ordinary laboratory. She travels so much that she is unlikely to find time to improve it in the near future.''
''The Guest Laboratories''
''There are two additional laboratories currently not in use. Both are identical to the buildings Xenophanes, Lexora, Alyssa, and Ahenobarbus use. One is stocked as a standard laboratory, the other is very basic and if used as it is would impose a –3 on Laboratory Totals, though this could easily be rectified by a season’s work. These are made available to visiting magi, and new recruits to the covenant would be assigned one of these laboratories. These cost an additional 100 Build Points.''
''The Village: Belfort du Quercy''
''Belfort du Quercy is a village of just 96 inhabitants, the majority covenfolk of Jardin, and all of whom regard themselves as loyal subjects of Lady Joia. All know, or have at least heard village gossip, that their mistress is a magician, but they keep the fact hidden from outsiders. It’s a village matter, and everyone, even Father Augustine, likes Joia and Xenophanes, even if the others are a little strange. The villagers are primarily engaged in market gardening, tending the vineyards and looking after the sheep who are grazed in the lowlands, and on the other (north facing) side of the ridge. The villagers get on well with each other, and are used to travelers, even very odd ones, because of their proximity to the Cahors road. There is no inn, but several locals will put up respectable-seeming travelers in their cottages overnight for a few coins. There is only one thing that divides the villages: religion. Three quarters are Cathars, and the remainder faithful to the Church. Nonetheless, there is no conflict, and little theological debate, as the divide runs right through families and households. Even Father Augustine would do all he could to shelter the heretics from persecution if the madness of the crusade returned, and when the Bishop of Cahors conducts a visitation even the Cathars dutifully file in to church to help the good curé out. The village has a Dominion aura of 1, except for the two religious buildings.''
''Chapel of Saint Desiderius''
''The covenant does not have its own chapel, but all the magi except Lexora attend mass on Easter Sunday in the village, which has a tiny red brick chapel dedicated to Saint Desiderius, in Merovingian times the bishop of Cahors. It’s still used despite the prevalence of Catharism in the village, and the curé Augustine gathers his tiny flock once a week on Sunday to say mass, and hears confession at Easter, Christmas and on the Feast of Saint Desiderius (November 15th), as well as occasionally throughout the year as needs dictate. The chapel has a Dominion aura of 2, except at the altar where it reaches 4. The graveyard where goats peacefully munch among the long grass has an aura of 1, like most of the village.''
''The Unaud Barn''
''The Cathars hold their prayer meetings at the barn of the Unaud family, a stone and wooden barn near the family house. It has''
''a Dominion aura of 3 from years of use as a prayer room. Raissa Unaud, the ancient matriarch of the family, is a Perfecta, and good friend of Xenophanes, though she disapproves mildly of magic. Other Perfecti come and go, always staying with members of the Unaud clan.''

==External Relations==

''Jardin has missed the last four Tribunal meetings, having turned insular following the death of Humbert. With only six votes it is a fairly minor force compared with the larger covenants of the Tribunal, but this political inactivity does not mean the magi do not visit, trade with and have opinions on the other covenants, or they on Jardin. If the magi can unite enough to send representatives to the next Tribunal meeting, then these existing relationships may prove crucial in determining the political outcomes of Jardin’s intervention. Aedes Mercurii: Given the size and importance of Aedes Mercurii, it is perhaps surprising how little contact there is between Jardin and that covenant. Only Lexora visits, and her outspoken support of the Cults of Mercury, Mars and Vulcan there has ruffled feathers at Castra Solis but gained Jardin little attention otherwise. Jardin is a small, almost irrelevant place in the eyes of most of the magi at Aedes Mercurii. While Lexora delights in her visits, there is one magus who actively avoids going there, and fears the day he is summoned. Ahenobarbus must answer to Protendus, who dwells here, but has been avoiding contact. Ara Maxima Nova: While Joia enjoys excellent relations with their neighbors at Stella Durus, Lexora has forged a firm friendship with the pagan magi of Ara Maxima Nova. Lexora is not party to many of the secrets of the covenant, but by secretly lowering herself to copying Joia’s tractatus on viticulture, which proved useful to the wine producing magi here, and through shared classical paganism Lexora has been told more of the cult than any other outsider since Guillermo joined. Lexora has caricatured the other magi of Jardin, and done all she can to make Joia in particular sound dangerous and insane. Jardin magi arriving without Lexora may be asked to leave and be treated with disdain. Bellaquin: Bellaquin has long been a natural ally of Jardin. Both being Jerbiton-led covenants, and until recently close neighbors, they have supported each other at many Tribunals''
''and done all they can to assist each other. However since Humbert’s death, Joia’s obsession with the Garden, and Bellaquin fleeing the Crusade, the relationship between the two, while still cordial, has become more distant. Valgravian and Joia are unsurprisingly friends, but she had far more interest in the covenant prior to its fall and evacuation to Andorra in 1202. Ahenobarbus has a great deal of respect for Artemis by reputation, given their shared interests, but the two Tremere have yet to meet. Castra Solis: Castra Solis has long ignored Jardin as nothing more than an effective extension of Bellaquin; the political isolation in which Jardin has held itself has caused them to be almost irrelevant in terms of Tribunal politics, and Jardin officially has little interest in House Flambeau affairs and the Mercurian/ Mithraist dispute. Lexora and Ahenobarbus, however, strongly favor building links with Castra Solis, and agree with that covenant that Jardin is far too exposed to the mundane world, and should have learned from the fates of Lariander and Bellaquin. Unfortunately Lexora’s links with the Cult of Mercury, and Xenophanes’ pacifism, sit ill with Castra Solis, hampering real cooperation. Forging closer links will require tact and diplomacy, though Joia is personally friends with both Garus and Troya. Coenobium: The Coenobium and Jardin enjoyed peaceful relations, until a recent row broke out when Joia remarked publicly once too often that the legendary beauty of Alazais was “superficial – the woman lacks charm”. Alazais has responded in kind with a number of pointed jibes at Joia, and troubadours now are frequently asked to judge between their charms, and indeed sing of the matter. Relatively few have ever set eyes on Alazais, so Joia is pleased that she is currently winning this contest. Xenophanes remains friends with the Gorgiastic (but non-Cathar) Polus, but again relations have suffered as Polus has become increasingly intolerant of Xenophanes’ occasional stupidities. While the Coenobium and Jardin have no real reason to dislike each other, a clash of personalities means they no longer get on. Lexora has seen no reason to get involved so far, but doubtless will eventually try to manipulate the situation to her own advantage. Ostal de Exiles: Not many people were ever willing to listen to Gilbert, and when he renounced House Jerbiton to join House Flambeau and become a questing knight most Jerbiton turned their backs upon him. Joia was an exception. She finds Gilbert frightening but compelling, and is, while not attracted to him, one of the few magi who respected him in his wilderness years, before events propelled him''
''to leadership of his covenant. He returns Joia’s respect, and their mutual hatred of the northerners and the crusade has made them allies. Jardin has so far done nothing to actively assist the violent plans of the Ostal, and Lexora, while respecting their passion, believes the coming war will destroy the Order, and so counsels extreme caution. Xenophanes rejects violence on principle, and only Alyssa regularly visits them, but in her last visit, intended to win support for her proposed rescue of the besieged Gorgiastic Cathars of Tolosa Paratge, managed to provoke a very unpleasant disagreement between her hosts. Popilia in particular, motivated by her hatred of Cathars, was outraged, and whether she declares Wizard’s War on Alyssa or simply reports her activities to the White faction remains to be seen. While Beatriz remains typically detached and despondent, Ahenobarbus is simply concerned with getting Garsenda out of the covenant and safely under his wing where she can serve the greater interests of House Tremere and the Order. If he could find a way to use her position within the Ostal de Exiles to reduce the threat of the faidits he would, but so far she has refused to meet with him or answer correspondence. Miniatia Sophia: Like Jardin, this covenant has been politically isolated, only becoming active during the last four Tribunals, a period during which, entirely by chance, Jardin has not attended. However, there is some distrust of Jardin from this Criamon clutch, founded by Leonarda of Aragon forty years ago. In the 1170’s Leonarda visited the Cave of Twisting shadows and met Xenophanes, and learned of the bizarre experiment in teaching a fool wisdom that the House was engaged upon. The fact that her parens was also the parens of Xenophanes, and that Xenophanes was Initiated in to The Path of Walking Backwards like herself did nothing to make the two friends. Leonarda publicly decried the experiment as insanity, and refused to acknowledge Xenophanes at all. When, in 1179, Leonarda founded Miniatia Sophia, The Cave of Twisting Shadows sent Xenophanes to the Tribunal. Leonarda refused to admit Xenophanes to her covenant. Xenophanes, as always, simply shrugged, and went off to make a home for himself at Jardin. Joia is offended on Xenophanes’ behalf, and fully understands why her friend is tempted by the Gorgiastic Cathar path, and the utter hostility with which Miniatia Sophia regards Jardin has done nothing to make things easier. It is not a matter of politics, pragmatism, or even House loyalties on the part of the Criamon clutch, but a deep-seated mystical opposition to everything Xenophanes is involved with, that will''
''be maintained regardless of expedience with a peculiar deep but dispassionate hatred. Stella Durus: Stella Durus and Jardin enjoy excellent relations, and should Jardin begin attending Tribunal, it is likely that Bellaquin, Stella Durus, and Jardin will vote together on many issues, becoming a significant political force in the Tribunal for the first time. Jean Marie of Stella Durus corresponds extensively with Joia on matters relating to Courtly Love. Tolosa Paratge: The collapse of Tolosa Paratge has robbed Jardin of an important ally. While Mariola of Jerbiton was a good friend to both Humbert and Joia, she is now trapped within the regio and has proved impossible to contact, with St. Tropez and the White faction carefully blockading the regio entrance. Jardin is deeply divided over what to do; Joia is inclined to negotiate a settlement between St. Tropez and Mariola, but has so far remained inactive. Xenophanes is utterly disgusted by violence, and the killings have disillusioned him somewhat with the Gorgiastic Cathars. Nonetheless, he too wishes to do all he can to rescue the Black faction from the siege, so long as no violence is employed. To Ahenobarbus this is simply proof of the madness engulfing the Tribunal; he thinks Jardin should support the White Faction, however, and expel all heretics before it suffers the same fate. Beatriz claims to have had a terrible vision of the future of Tolosa Paratge, but refuses to say what it was. One member of Jardin has, however, already become actively involved. Alyssa has decided that the Gorgiastic Cathars must be saved, and has, unbeknownst to the others, been silently scrying upon the White Faction, preparing to try to force entry to the regio.''

==Resources==

''Jardin has a number of important resources, both mundane and magical.''

==Income Sources: The Vineyards==

''The region around Cahors is famous for its black wines, which are actually very deep red in color, while the grapes themselves are a deep purplish-black. The grapes are known as Côt Noir, a variety of Malbec grape. They need a great deal of sun, and so are normally grown on south facing slopes. Almost every''
''available hillside in the region is terraced with vines, with dozens of vineyards producing the excellent wine. Cahors wine is exported widely, and is considered a luxury item, being famous even in England for its quality.''

==Enchanted Devices==

''The following enchanted device is the only one held by the covenant.''

==Library==

''The impressive library building is built of beautiful glazed red brick in the style of the region, and is similar in form to a basilica, with a great domed roof covered in verdigrised copper. Despite the resemblance to a church, it is clearly a secular building. Surprisingly, the building possesses no windows at all, and where one might expect to find them are alcoves that hold gaudily pained wooden statues of classical figures associated with the arts and learning. Over the door, in pride of place, is the Roman poet Virgil, and flanking him Ovid and Homer. Steps lead up to a large double wooden door, which opens outward and is often left wide open during the day, the librarian believing the flow of air is good for the books. On entering the library up a short flight of steps one finds oneself in a large antechamber, which acts as both the librarian’s office and the repository for mundane texts. The walls to left and right have large oak tables, and on these the mundane texts are securely chained, while the wall opposite has a large open archway through to the next room, where the summae on Arts reside. The librarian Bohella sits just within the doorway, at a small desk, keeping a wary eye on all visitors. She takes an especial pride in the books in this room, and manages some two seasons’ worth of study a year from them, as her duties are comparatively light and she is maintained as Wealthy by the covenant. In the event of any disaster befalling the library, these books would be the first books she attempted to save. She knows all but one mysterious work (not written in Latin) well and can advise on their contents, scope, and quality. The second room on the ground floor contains perhaps the most valuable books in the library, not that Bohella values them as such. Nevertheless, the large arch allows her a fine view of what goes on in this room, and she swiftly intervenes if she feels these texts are in anyway at risk. Each of the eleven books is chained to a small oak desk, with a high wooden surround''
''that partitions it off from the rest of the room, providing privacy. The small sloping desks have enough room for the book, an ink well and quills, and parchment on which to make notes. Each of the accompanying chairs has an exquisitely carved back representing the Art of the book available at that desk. The second floor of the library is given over to the fine collection of tractatus the covenant has managed to amass over the years. This is by far the least frequented part of the building, as the magae have already studied almost all the tractatus in which they have any interest. It is a large, echoing space, with large tables scattered through the room, each with one or two books chained to it, providing ample scope for hiding or quietly dozing in a secluded spot when one is meant to be studying. An archway with a lockable door leads through to the Council Chamber, above the entrance hall. Stairs lead to the Arts summae below and up to the top floor and the collection of Laboratory Texts. Guests are welcome to spend a season or more copying books, providing they present a summa of equal or greater value to the collection in exchange. Such guests are waived the usual guest expenses, so valuable is the acquisition of summae considered to the covenant, even if the summa presented in exchange is on Arts already represented. All too often the Covenant Coun''
''cil has to rule on which maga is granted access to a particular book for a particular season at the moment when two magae’s study interests coincide, for only one maga can be reading any given book at a time!''
''Mundane Knowledge''
''Humbert de Cavirac, The History and Topography of the Provençal Tribunal, Area Lore: Provençal Tribunal summa, Quality: 12; Level: 4 (24 BP) Humbert de Cavirac, Principles of Grammar, Artes Liberales summa, Quality: 10; Level: 3 (19 BP) Roderic of Castille, The Laws of the Hermes, Code of Hermes summa Quality: 12; Level: 2 (18 BP)''

[|

==The Mysterious Book==

''There are two books in this room that are not written in Latin. One is Joia’s simple primer for Occitan readers learning Latin, but the other is more mysterious. In fact, it is hard for most magi to even make out what language it is in, though the alphabet is Visgothic uncials, which are used in many of the Latin books and while old fashioned are a perfectly readable form of the normal Latin alphabet. While the script is therefore clear to any magus, the words the letters spell out are completely unknown. In fact, the book is written in the Gothic language, and the content is based upon an analysis of the Visigothic stones around the pool that Androcles translated and which first brought him to the covenant site. Along with his adaptation of the information into Initiation Scripts that are contained in the book, the book contains many secrets of House Bjornaer, covering the period up to 1150, that serve as a primer for developing Organization Lore: House Bjornaer. Bohella has no idea of the content, or even of the language in which it is written, but knows the book is forbidden except to Joia, Lexora, and those they directly authorize to look at it. However, the book is kept chained to a table like the other books in this room, and no attempt is made to hide it. The obscurity of Gothic as a tongue serves to remove any risk of outsiders learning the content, and without at least one experience point in Organization Lore: House Bjornaer to understand the basic concepts the contents appear to be gibberish anyway. Lexora encourages fellow Bjornaer, even those from other covenants, to study the book, if they possess the requisite knowledge of Gothic. Very few, even in House Bjornaer, do, however. Should a reader be granted access, the book is as follows. Androcles of Bjornaer, The Mystery of the Stones; Organization Lore: House Bjornaer summa, Quality: 15; Level: 4; Written in Gothic (27 BP)''

==Shield of Dismissal==

''Just within the gateway a grog waits and watches approaching visitors. Those of obvious rank or wealth are always admitted, but known troublemakers or those who appear to be of no importance, French, or clearly allied with the crusade are turned away with a magic item created by Ahenobarbus to try to reduce the flow of unwanted visitors. A shield with the embossed shape of a set of panpipes, covered in gold leaf.''
''Subtle Shift of the Intended Destination ReMe 37 Pen 0, 3/day. R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group When the user slaps the symbol of the panpipe and calls out to visible targets “Lost your way have you?”, they suddenly feel the urge to avoid the covenant, and instead seek out a place holding special significance for them. At the end of the duration the targets may remember intending to go to the covenant, but not why they did not. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group; Modifications +2 uses/day) Cost: 15 Build Points''

|]
''Humbert de Cavirac, On the Pleasing Art of Conversation, Etiquette summa; Quality: 16; Level: 4 (28 BP) Humbert de Cavirac, The Golden Tongue, Charm summa, Quality: 16; Level: 4 (28 BP) Janus of Bonisagus, Further Notes on Magical Notation, Magic Theory summa, Quality: 14; Level: 7 (35 BP) Raimond Saissac, The Golden Flowers of Toulouse, Occitan summa, Quality: 20; Level: 5 (35 BP) Joia du Lua, The Poetry of Latin, Summa on Latin, Quality 8, Level 2; Written in Occitan. (14 BP) Joia du Lua, The Imperfections of Magic Theory, tractatus on Magic Theory, Quality 8 (BP 8) Joia du Lua, Would The Order Be Better Without Parma Magica?, tractatus on Parma Magica, Quality 8 (BP 8) Lexora, The Claws of Magic, tractatus on Penetration, Quality 6 (BP 6) Joia du Lua, The Art of Viticulture, tractatus on Profession: Viticulturist, Quality 8 (BP 8) Joia du Lua, On The Training of Apprentices, tractatus on Teaching, Quality 8 (BP 8) Xenophanes, The Simple Christians, tractatus on Theology: Cathar, Quality 6 (BP 6)''
''Books on the Arts''
''Septerella Gascoigne, Perceiving the Unseen World, summa on Intellego, Quality: 8; Level: 7 (15 BP) Pantalone Maximus, The Way of the Chrysalis, summa on Muto, Quality 13; Level 18 (31 BP) Rufus Pons of Arles, The Scepter of Order, summa on Rego, Type: Quality 15; Level 12 (27 BP) Catugno the Surgeon, The Way of All Flesh, summa on Perdo, Quality 15; Level 11 (26 BP) Androcles of Bjornaer, The Rugen Bestiary, Summa on Animal, Quality 16; Level 15 (31 BP) Martin of Stella Durus, The Flow of the Rhone, summa on Aquam, Quality 18; Level 13 (31 BP) Catugno the Surgeon, Blood, Bone and Bile, summa on Corpus, Quality: 15; Level: 10 (25 BP) Antonius of Merinita, Antonius’ Herbal, summa on Herbam, Quality11; Level 20 (31 BP) Pythonus Minor, On Accidents and the Appearance of Things, summa on Imaginem, Quality 15; Level 13 (28 BP) Humbert de Cavirac, A Primer on the Mysteries of Memory, summa on Mentem, Quality 18; Level 13 (31 BP) Oswald of York, Metamagica, summa on Vim, Quality 18; Level 13 (31 BP)''
''The following two summae are written in the Occitan language. Joia du Lua, The Joy of Flowers, summa on Herbam, Quality 8, Level 9; Written in Occitan (BP 17) Joia du Lua, The Succulent Grapes of Love, summa on Herbam, Quality 8, Level 7; Written in Occitan (BP15) Joia du Lua, Out of Nothing Springs Forth Joy, tractatus on Creo, Quality: 8 (8 BP) Chretien de Paris, Epistemology and Empiricism, tractatus on Intellego, Quality 10 (10 BP) Gustavus of Mainz, The Keys of Bonisagus: Authority Explicated, tractatus on Rego, Quality 7 (BP 7) Marcus of Ghent, Like the Seasons, Like the Wind, tractatus on Muto, Quality 10 (BP 10) Aella of Bjornaer, The Choleric Beasts, tractatus on Animal, Quality: 11 (BP 11) Aella of Bjornaer, The Sanguine Beasts, tractatus on Animal Quality: 10 (BP 10) Aella of Bjornaer, The Melancholy Beasts, tractatus on Animal, Quality: 9 (BP 9) Androcles of Bjornaer, The Heart of the Eagle, tractatus on Animal; Quality: 8 (8 BP) Anonymous, Mastering The Mistral, tractatus on Auram, Quality: 10 (10 BP) Lucius Delvander, Why Does Flame Consume? tractatus on Ignem, Quality: 8 (8 BP) Xenophanes, The World Beneath Our Feet, tractatus on Terram, Quality 6 (6BP) Xenophanes, God Within Us, tractatus on Vim, Quality 6 (6 BP)''
''The following tractatus is written in Occitan Joia du Lua, Joia’s Book of Vines, tractatus on Herbam, Quality 8; Written in Occitan (8 BP)''
''Laboratory Texts''
''The upper floor of the library, beneath the impressive domed roof, holds a fine selection of Laboratory Texts. Some have been written by the resident magi, others have been traded for over the years, and there is also a large selection that were gained from the mysterious shipwreck by Androcles before the founding of the covenant. The covenant encourages seasonal service that adds more spells to these texts. Magi from other covenants sometimes come to study the Laboratory Texts and are welcomed to spend up to one season a year as guests copying in the library building, but are expected to both make the usual contribution as guests and to also gift the collection as many spell levels of Laboratory Texts as they copy. Any duplicates are then traded with other covenants to improve the scope of the collection.''
''Each of the laboratory texts has been fully translated, and they are divided by Form, with each collection contained in a locked chest in a part of the room decorated with a wall mosaic in small ceramic tiles showing the symbol of the Form in question. Texts are in the form of scrolls, small books, and loosely bound sheaves of parchment, but all are invaluable in recreating the spell design.''
''Animal Soothe Pains of the Beast CrAn20 True Rest of the Injured Brute CrAn20 The Wizard’s Mount CrAn35 Opening the Tome of the Animal’s Mind InAn25 Beast of Outlandish Size MuAn15 Disguise of the Putrid Aroma ReAn5 Soothe the Ferocious Bear ReAn10 Viper’s Gaze ReAn15 The Gentle Beast ReAn25 Mastering the Unruly Beast ReAn25 Commanding the Harnessed Beast ReAn30''

[|

==Story Seed: Heresy in the Library?==

''Xenophanes has contributed just three books to the library, but if the Church authorities or a hostile magi were to examine them problems could arise. One, The Simple Christians, is a very basic primer on Cathar Theology. It is not an endorsement, but it is sympathetic, and it also discusses the beliefs of the Gorgiastic Cathar tradition within Ex Miscellanea, and so could be used as evidence that the Order is sheltering heretics within its ranks. The second book is just as explosive: a simple tractatus on Vim, it equates The Gift with shards of the Divine broken by the Fall and yearning for return to Heaven, and escape from the cycles of time. Church scholars, unless Gifted and possessing Magic Theory, would have difficulty making sense of it, but they would certainly believe it heretical and call upon Xenophanes to recant his errors, and this would bring the entire covenant under severe scrutiny. His third text is, fortunately, uncontroversial. So low is the regard that Xenophanes’ intelligence is held that no one at the covenant has yet read them and noticed the potential problem, but when a scholarly papal legate visits, the situation quickly gets out of hand, and the magi must find some way to stop him examining these books further. Even worse, visitors from other covenants copied the books, and they are starting to circulate through the Order. Can the copies be recovered and destroyed in time?''

|]
''Aquam Subtle Taste of Poison and Purity InAq5 Comfort of the Drenched Traveler PeAq 5 Cloak of Duck’s Feathers ReAq5 Breath of Winter ReAq15''
''Auram Jupiter’s Resounding Blow CrAu10 Charge of the Angry Winds CrAu 15 The Cloudless Sky Returned PeAu45''
''Corpus Bind Wound CrCo10 The Chirurgeon’s Healing Touch CrCo20 Gentle Touch of the Purified Body CrCo20 Cheating the Reaper CrCo30 Restoration of the Defiled Body CrCo25 Sight of the True Form InCo10 Revealed Flaws of Mortal Flesh InCo10 The Inexorable Search InCo20 The Eye of the Sage InCo30 Disguise of the New Visage MuCo15 Gift of the Bear’s Fortitude MuCo25 Rise of the Feathery Body ReCo10 Endurance of the Berserkers ReCo15 The Gift of Vigor ReCo20''
''Herbam Hunt for the Wild Herb InHe5 Conjure the Sturdy Vine CrHe5 The Healthy Vine CrHe5 (Joia du Lua) The Well Tended Vine CrHe5 (Joia du Lua) Create the Flowers of the Moon CrHe 15 (Joia du Lua) Trap of the Entwining Vines CrHe15 Bridge of Wood CrHe20 The Bountiful Feast CrHe35 Coils of the Entangling Plants ReHe20 Converse with Plant and Tree InHe25 Freeing the Striding Tree ReHe30''
''Ignem Heat of the Searing Forge CrIg10 Tales of the Ashes InIg5 The Many-Hued Conflagration MuIg5 Show of the Flames and Smoke MuIg10 Prison of Flames MuIg20 Trapping the Fire MuIg25 Light Shaft of the Night ReIg20 Ward Against Heat and Flames ReIg25''
''Imaginem Phantasm of the Human Form CrIm25 Discern Own Illusions InIm15 Discern the Images of Truth and Falsehood InIm30 Taste of the Spices and Herbs MuIm5 Aura of Ennobled Presence MuIm10 Disguise of the Transformed Image MuIm15 Veil of Invisibility PeIm20 Wizard’s Sidestep ReIm10''
''Mentem Black Whisper PeMe40 Vision of the Haunting Spirits MuMe40 Calm the Motion of the Heart PeMe15 Enchantment of Detachment PeMe15 Loss of But a Moment’s Memory PeMe15 Passion’s Lost Feeling PeMe25 Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie InMe20 Posing the Silent Question InMe20 Trust of Childlike Faith PeMe10 Confusion of the Numbed Will PeMe15 The Call to Slumber ReMe10 Aura of Rightful Authority ReMe20 Cool the Lover’s Ardor ReMe20 (Joia du Lua)''
''Terram Eyes of the Treacherous Terrain InTe15''
''Vim The Enigma’s Gift CrVi30 The Invisible Eye Revealed InVi15 Detect the Gift InVi20 Piercing the Faerie Veil InVi20 Piercing the Magical Veil InVi20 Wizard’s Boost (Mentem) MuVi25 Wizard’s Reach (Mentem) MuVi25 Wizard’s Communion MuVi30 Wind of Mundane Silence PeVi20 Unraveling the Fabric of Mentem PeVi30 Gather the Essence of the Beast ReVi15 Aegis of the Hearth ReVi25 Maintaining the Demanding Spell ReVi25 Suppressing the Wizard’s Handiwork ReVi25 Opening the Intangible Tunnel ReVi30 Watching Ward ReVi30 Total Build Points in Laboratory Texts 276''

==Vis Sources==

''The covenant has access to a number of vis sources, most very close to the covenant itself. Until 1202 the vis to the north was largely owned by the magi of Bellaquin, and they still lay claim to many of the readily available vis sources in that area and collect them, a situation Jardin respects.''
''The Black Grapes''
''6 pawns of Perdo per year in autumn The vineyard produces the famous black grapes, Côt Noir. There are tens of thousands of grapes on the vines in the late autumn as the harvest begins, and by tradition the harvest at Jardin must be completed by All Saint’s Day, November 1st. The evening before, as the grapes are collected, one bunch of grapes becomes invested with six pawns of Perdo vis at sunset. They must''
''be the last bunch harvested, or the vis is simply lost. The villagers have a long established tradition of granting their lords the last bunch, and by tradition the chatelaine (Joia) has the right to dictate what bunch that is. Occasionally however the process goes wrong. The bunch must be harvested with a copper sickle, caught in a copper bowl, and untouched by human hands until it leaves the vineyard to retain the vis.''
''The Reflection of Beatriz’s Lover''
''2 pawns of Imaginem per year in spring A recent discovery by Beatriz, this vis source is unusual in that it normally manifests in her laboratory, though in fact any lovers in the covenant could produce the vis, with any mirror. Unfortunately only Serena, Joia and Beatriz possess hand mirrors, and only Beatriz a full length mirror. Two people must exchange a passionate kiss in front of the mirror, and the image of the embrace then burns itself on to the mirror until dawn or dusk. The vis must be be transferred to another item to be useful and retained. The kiss must be genuine, based upon love or lust, and Beatriz therefore has attempted to take lovers she genuinely desires, but with her morose temperament it can be difficult to find men who reciprocate, and her seduction attempts are often mocked by Joia.''
''The Heart of a Lover''
''1 pawn of Corpus per year in summer Jardin has developed a strong reputation among troubadours for extolling the virtues of the cult of courtly love. This vis source reflects that tradition, and has only been discovered in recent years. On a summer’s evening within the bower, a lover must present his lady with a rose. As he does, the rose pricks his hand, and a single drop of blood forms on his thumb. The lady must collect the blood, usually on her handkerchief, and it forms a pawn of Corpus vis.''
''The Fiery Liquor''
''3 pawns of Ignem per year in spring Over at the village of Vazerac to the west they produce black wine too, but their best vintage has an unusual quality. Three barrels of the hundreds filled for trade each summer contain a particularly deep red wine, that if closely examined seems to have real flames burning within its ruby depths. It would be almost impossible for the magi or grogs to find the correct barrels, but luckily the villagers there are aware of the phenomenon. Unfortunately for the magi, the''
''village has no lord, but has, like several of the villages in the vicinity of Toulouse, appointed consuls, and the twelve men and women, all persons born in the village, demand a fair price for the magic wine. They know a little of the Order of Hermes, and threaten that if the wine is not purchased by Jardin it will be sold to other magicians. Each year the village consuls determine their asking price for the pawns of Ignem vis and barrels of fine wine; usually not money (though sometimes a pound of silver has been accepted) but instead some magical favor: a healing, an improved harvest, or a magical farm implement. Sometimes their demands are far more expensive in terms of vis than the vis gained from the wine, but failure to comply could result in the vis source being offered to another covenant. The villagers have no idea of the value of vis, and assume magicians can do anything, and so are not inclined to be reasonable or bargain once they have set their price for the year.''
''The Highest Leaf''
''1 pawn of Muto per year in autumn In a small faerie wood high on a hill top some sixteen miles east of Jardin stands a tall tree of a type quite unique in the region. The tree towers above the surrounding wood, and in autumn the highest leaf changes color to a rich gold that seems to sparkle in all the colors of the rainbow in the sun. Entering the wood with its Faerie aura of 3 leads to harassment by the minor goblin fae who dwell within, so magic is usually employed to reach the tree top and collect the leaf.''
''Change of Heart''
''1 pawn of Muto, 3 pawns of Mentem per year One of the harder of the vis sources to collect for the covenant, this relies upon something happening spontaneously. When someone enters the Garden of Love to quest for her Heart’s Desire, and enters the regio, she often does not return. Some, however, return changed; discovering their Heart’s Desire alters them forever. Usually this is reflected in a drastic personality trait change. When they change in this manner, questers are often overwhelmed''
''by a desire to set things right, and to express their new found values in the wider world. The first strong manifestation in an outward behavior to others of that change leads to an item becoming imbued with 1 pawn of Muto and 3 pawns of Mentem vis. The problem is that the change may be expressed in the covenant, in the village, or not until they return home, and someone has to be present to witness it, and collect the vis before it melts away at sunset. Once collected the vis remains – it is finding it that is difficult. It is always the first person to experience a complete change of heart in any given year who manifests the vis, but when that happens varies greatly from year to year.''
''The Fur of the Saturated Beast''
''3 pawns of Aquam per year in summer The Lion’s pool becomes charged with vis once a year on St. John’s Day (June 24th). If a sanguine beast (most predators, not necessarily a lion) swims in the pool on that day, when it leaves the water and shakes its fur the droplets that fly off, if collected somehow, are charged''

[|

==Summary of Vis Sources==

''Art Pawns  Build Points  Art  Pawns  Build Points Creo 0  0   Animal  3  15 Intellego 0  0   Aquam  3  15 Muto 2  10   Auram  0  0 Perdo 6  30   Corpus  1  5 Rego 0  0   Herbam 4  20 Ignem 3  15   Imaginem 2  10 Mentem 3  15   Terram  0  0 Vim 0  0 Total          135''

|]
''with three pawns of Aquam vis. Lexora normally collects this vis in a sheet, and presents the vis in the damp cloth to the covenant.''
''Blood on the Talons''
''3 pawns of Animal per year in summer One day in early summer a white dove appears, flying over the covenant. At once the grogs call the magi, who gather falcons and rush out. Once the bird perches on the tower roof, the falcons may be unleashed, and the dove flies off at speed, using all kinds of evasive maneuvers to avoid being caught. If a falcon brings it down, then the talons of the raptor that made the kill are coated with blood that contains three pawns of Animal vis.''
''The Blooming of Love''
''4 pawns of Herbam per Year in Spring Entering the Night Garden is always hazardous, but once a year it is absolutely necessary if this vis is to be collected. Deep within the regio gardens there are four very beautiful plants. The first source is a tall tree that produces great yellow blossoms that sway in the wind, the second a green herb that, while small and delicate, is of incredible beauty, though those picking it must make a Stamina + Concentration stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or fall asleep as it gives off a vapor that dulls the senses and tires the body. The third source grows on what appears to be a grave, in a garden where the nightingales sing, and consists of tiny black berries on a dark purple creeper that grows over the ruined stone walls of the enclosure. Finally, the fourth source is a red spiky shrub with razor sharp leaves that easily draw blood, and which can only be collected after a traditional folk dance is performed by at least two pair of lovers around it. Every year the grogs escort newly adult covenfolk, four men and four women, in to the Garden to try to find and collect the vis before dawn breaks. Unfortunately the exact position of each location seems to vary year by year, as does the level of resistance raised by the inhabitants of the Garden.''

==Vis Stocks==

''The covenant has vis stocks stored in locked chests in the council chamber.''
''The Rainbow Leaves''
''7 pawns of Muto vis These golden leaves which sparkle with all the colors of the rainbow are collected from the Highest Tree (see earlier).''
''The Indigo Pawns of Toulouse''
''7 pawns of Rego vis This vis appears as indigo colored wooden chess pawns, made into that shape for the purpose of vis trade. They were acquired some years back from Tolosa Paratge, and have so far found no use.''
''The Beast’s Bath Water''
''5 pawns of Aquam vis Linen cloths the size of large handkerchiefs that never dry out, these contain the Aquam vis gathered as described in The Fur of the Beast earlier.''
''The Sanguine Roses''
''9 pawns of Animal vis The tiny flecks of blood collected in Blood on the Talons (see earlier) are transferred by Xenophanes for ease of use to coin sized wooden rose shaped counters he carves himself, and that have a blood red hue.''
''Sands of the Mistral''
''15 pawns of Auram vis Some years ago the Mistral, a strong''

[|

==Covenant Finances==

''The covenant has 300 pounds of silver at its disposal, stored in a locked chest within the manor house. The covenant in 1220 makes a profit of 250 pounds from the vineyards, and spends 218 pounds each year, leaving a surplus each year of 32 pounds added to the stores. One major expense is tithing ten percent of income to both the Church and the Cathars. The expenditure in Mythic Pounds breaks down as follows:''
''Expenditure  Base  Cost  Reduction  Total Buildings  22  22  0   22 Consumables  28  28  0   28 Laboratories  8  8  0   8 Tithes   50  50  0   50 Provisions  70  70  0   70 Wages   28  28  0   28 Weapons and Armor 1  1  0   1 Writing Materials 8  8  0   8 Sundries  1  1  0   1 Total          216''

==Summary of Vis Stocks==

''Art Pawns Build Points''
''Animal 9 2 Aquam 5 1 Auram 15 3 Corpus 25 5 Creo 0 0 Herbam	  0 0 Intellego	  0 0 Muto 7 1 Perdo 0 0 Rego 7 1 Ignem 2 0 Imaginem	 10 2 Mentem	  4 1 Terram 0 0 Vim 25 5 Total 109 22''

|]
''wind that blows across the Mediterranean Sea from North Africa, brought with it a great fall of pinkish sand. This sand was discovered by the magi of the Coenobium and Stella Durus to contain Auram vis, and large amounts were traded throughout the Tribunal. This vis originates from that source, and is kept in tiny glass vials for ease of use.''
''The Fiery Liquor of Vazerac''
''2 pawns of Ignem vis Tiny glass bottles stopped with wax contain a single shot of very strong alcohol, as if distilled from the wine. The liquid looks like liquid fire, burning orange and red within the bottles.''
''The Wondrous Poems''
''8 pawns of Imaginem vis These small stopped clay flasks each contain a poem recited with passion by a troubadour. The vis is used when the bottle is opened and the poem whispers itself to''
''the wind. They were traded for with Tolosa Paratge in happier times.''
''The Frozen Kisses''
''2 pawns of Imaginem vis The image of Beatrix embracing a lover has been taken from her mirror, and magically been transferred on to two pieces of fine yellow silk.''
''The Pawns of Healing''
''25 pawns of Corpus vis Traded for with redcaps, these pawns of Corpus vis are in the form of small bone chess pieces.''
''The Changing Hearts''
''4 pawns of Mentem vis Little hearts the size of coins, seemingly made of carefully stitched rose petals, delicate and exquisite, that beat in the hand like real''
''hearts. They change color with the mood of the holder, and sometimes size too. They are from The Change of Heart vis source (see earlier).''
''The Perfumed Spirals''
''25 pawns of Vim vis Small spirals of what appears to be purple metal, which give off a strong odor of violets and strangely enough taste delicious if licked. These have been distilled from the covenant aura, and are kept in a leather bag within the vis chest, as vermin and even, on one occasion, grogs have been known to try and consume them.''

[|

==Suggested Storylines for Jardin==

''There are several main storylines to address with a Jardin saga, and they cover threats from within the covenant in addition to threats from the outside.''
''Story Seed: The Facechanger''
''The garden is home to a large number of weird and dangerous faeries. Many are simply faerie animals, or personifications of the secret powers of plants that grow within. A few, however, are truly weird expressions of some aspect of love, romance or associated themes, but perhaps the strangest of all is the faerie commonly known as Skullface, though as a faerie spirit its true form is unknown. Skullface is a relatively powerful spirit that escaped the garden through the Aegis on the night Beatriz failed her quest, and now haunts the County of Tolouse. It is linked to the form of Imaginem, and it always begins meddling in human affairs in the same way, by changing the appearance of a loved one of the victim’s face to appear as a hideous skull. From that point onwards Skullface sets about driving the two apart, using her Guide power until the relationship ends, and is replaced by new relationships. This unpleasant faerie is believed by some Merinita to be the reason that fortunetellers often claim that symbols of death are actually symbols of change or moving on in your life. Recently Skullface has returned to Jardin, where she is choosing which relationship she should end as traumatically as possible. After she has destroyed the relationship, she always sets about attempting to''
''help build anew relationship of equal strength to replace it, of course. A visiting noble, grog or companion may be her next victim, with disastrous results. (Based on Regio)''
''Story Seed: The Mercenaries''
''Both sides in the war hire companies of mercenaries (routiers), denounced by the Church and denied the Holy Sacraments. They may comprise villainous scum, or warriors of great personal honor, but either way they are never welcome once peace arrives, or even during war when they take what they can, thieving and scavenging their way across the countryside and leaving a trail of destruction behind them. When a group of mercenary captains made unemployed by the current lull in fighting realize they must flee Toulouse or risk being hanged by their former employer, the count, some of them remember a rich vineyard and small castle they saw on the Cahors road. They arrive in Belfort, billet themselves in the villagers’ houses, and steal the wine stores. Fortunately the commanders are able to stop them drinking the wine, knowing it has great value and that their rough soldiers will indulge in an orgy of rape and burning if they become too drunk, probably destroying the village. They await a response from the fortress, and if the magi are not swift to deal with the problem, assault it and take it as their new headquarters, knowing it seems to owe fealty to no lord. (Based on War Zone)''
''Story Seed: The Walls of Jardin''
''Ahenobarbus is keen to repair the crumbling walls of Jardin, and make the place defensible again. If he does this, a new problem appears as Alix de Montfort hears word of a small independent castle apparently strengthening its defenses. Dressing as a widow (for such she is since the death of her husband, crusader leader Simon) she takes some maidservants and local bodyguards and travels to the fortress to see if it might pose a threat to the crusade and de Montfort possessions, and require taking. If she perceives the covenant as loyal to the count of Toulouse, or heretical, her armies will soon follow. (Based on Crumbling).''
''Story Seed: Unwelcome Guests''
''The whole of the county of Toulouse has become a patchwork of territories controlled by the de Montforts and crusaders, and territory still loyal to Raimond VI of Toulouse or other southern lords. There is a weakness in the magical defense provided by the Shield of Dismissal, in that it requires the grog on guard duty to decide at the gate if the guests arriving our Occitan loyalist nobles Joia will welcome, or French or crusader nobles who are her mortal enemies. From time to time mistakes are made, and Jardin pays host to a party of its mortal enemies. Can Joia’s loathing for these people be controlled and the guests encouraged to quickly leave before they learn too much? (Based on Road)''

|]

==The Covenant in Play==

''Jardin is designed as a Summer covenant that mirrors the strife of the Tribunal in which it is nominally set, but which also provides an exemplar of a covenant with a very specific theme and mysteries the magae resident within do not fully understand.''
''Covenant Themes''
''The major theme of the Covenant is the quest for the Heart’s Desire, both on a very literal level, in the Night Garden, and on a metaphorical level. This theme is about romantic love, and the envy and jealousy that sometimes accompanies it, and most stories should contain lovers and misunderstandings, including both those whose love is expressed in chaste longing and worship of the lady as an almost divine ideal, and those who love is sensual and often adulterous. Fill your stories with lovers, hearts full and hearts broken, and the conflicts and jealousy love brings, and you will be expressing the main theme of Jardin. Other themes, however, are also important to stories set at this covenant.''
''The Struggle for Dominance''
''The fractured council has led to a clear power struggle between Lexora and Joia, which reflects two very different ambitions and plans for the future of Jardin. Lexora will eventually make a move to openly denounce Joia’s plans and the threat that the faeries of the Garden have become, and make a political play for power. Serena may well finally decide to seek support from crusaders or the southern nobility to be restored to authority in her home, and seek to expel the magi, though her secret love for Ahenobarbus is currently preventing this catastrophe. The covenant could quickly fall in to Winter as the magi move to more and more open conflict, perhaps even following the awful example of Tolosa Paratge into civil war.''
''The Crusade''
''Linked to the conflict of faith is the threat of the crusader armies, and even the undisciplined troops of the count of Toulouse. Jardin is a flawed but defensible castle, and both sides may wish to besiege it, or if no resistance is offered impose a garrison. Joia’s close relationship with southern lords prevents much threat from them unless she''
''is replaced as leader, but if the attention of the crusade is drawn to the covenant the end could be sudden and violent. How the magi deal with this threat is a constant issue dominating the lives of the resident magi, and often problems appear in the form of a visit from some powerful southern lord, such as Count Raimond of Toulouse who often comes to Joia to seek advice in how to pursue the struggle against the French.''
''The Question of Faith''
''Jardin is home to both Cathars and loyal members of the church, currently coexisting in harmony. If the good curé Father Augustine is replaced by a more belligerent cleric, the Bishop of Cahors comes on visitation and realizes the village is full of Cathars, or the Cathar leaders, the Unaud family, lose authority to the preaching of visiting Perfecti, the easy going tolerance could be replaced by bitter conflict. If your saga follows history the crusade will die down within a decade, to be followed by two decades of the Inquisition hunting heretics, and many stories will ensue.''
''The Threat From Within''
''The faeries clearly represent a new and growing threat to Jardin, as the more powerful fae try to manipulate the magi to play out their stories, and their less powerful brethren creep out of the garden at night if the Aegis is weak, and become more and more aggressive within the Night Garden in playing out their distinct roles. Joia did not intentionally create the Faerie aura, but her romantic games and the tales of the troubadours have presented her with a serious problem that will continue to grow as the years pass.''
''Broken-Hearted Questers''
''Joia is careful about who she allows to attempt the quest in the Garden of Love, but some who come to seek their Heart’s Desire are shattered by the experience and their minds broken. Trying to restore them to some semblance of sanity, or to help cover up their sudden disappearance, especially given that many of them are politically powerful nobles from the southern resistance, will be a recurring issue the magi must face.''

==Player Character Roles at Jardin==

''Jardin is quite suitable for use as a covenant for player character magi. Any of the magi''
''can be replaced, with Alyssa, Beatriz, Ahenobarbus, and Xenophanes being the first to be replaced, in that order. It is also possible that the characters may have served their apprenticeships here, and Xenophanes, Ahenobarbus, and Lexora have all recently trained apprentices, so newly gauntleted magi of Criamon, Tremere, and Bjornaer would make excellent character choices. The order of beginning training would be Lexora’s apprentice, then Xenophanes (by a season), then Ahenobarbus’, who arrived with his master after beginning the apprenticeship in the Transylvanian Tribunal. Such characters should take new positions in covenant precedence: Lexora and Xenophanes’ apprentices ahead in precedence even of Ahenobarbus, who arrived here in 1209, and his apprentice ahead of Alyssa. It is even possible that Joia trained a second apprentice after her''

[|

==Moving Jardin to other Tribunals==

''Jardin is very clearly situated in the Provence Tribunal during the Albigensian Crusade, but it can, with a little work, be moved to to other Tribunals and times. Romantic love is a common human condition, and while the formal forms of Courtly Love are still mainly sung of by the troubadours of Provence and the trouverts of Normandy, Eleanor of Aquitaine introduced the motifs to the Stonehenge Tribunal, and they are now increasing in fashion in the Greater Alps, Rhine, Iberia and Roman Tribunals too. Moving the covenant to Normandy requires the fewest changes, as Catharism has a hold in some communities there, and Joia’s allegiance can be switched to the French king in the great struggle with the south. The Stonehenge Tribunal has an intriguing possibility in the story of Rosamund Clifford, a mistress of Henry II and romantic rival to his wife Eleanor of Aquitaine. Their love affair became public knowledge in 1174, and folklore says that Henry had Rosamund secreted in a magical garden to keep her from the jealous rage of Eleanor. This garden of love was hidden within a maze, but one day Eleanor learned its secrets and confronted Rosamund, offering her a choice of death by poison from a jeweled goblet or a dagger with which to strike out her heart. Poor Rosamund, a legendary beauty, chose to die by poison and was buried at Godstow Priory. An English version of Joia may well have adapted the magical garden near Woodstock, Oxfordshire, and the grapes of Jardin can be replaced with verdant fields of more mundane crops, but the fabulous garden and sad remnants of Rosamund’s last two years can be found in the ruined royal hunting lodge and mysterious garden that was her home during her period in hiding.''

|]
''disappointment with Beatriz, though this is not taken account of in her statistics as given. Remove 150 points from her Abilities, Arts and Spell Levels if this option is chosen. It is also possible for new magi who were not trained at the covenant to join, though they may resent the covenant precedence system: this option makes for an interesting setting for players new to Ars Magica to explore political and intrigue based sagas. The cost of the weapons and armor includes all in use by the current grogs and their captain and the spares outlined above. The costs include entertaining up to two nobles and retinue throughout the year. In reality the numbers of visitors varies, and at times there are no guests staying, at other times half a dozen. However, it averages out to two additional nobles, as well as Serena. More on covenant wealth can be found in Covenants, Chapter 5.''
''Loyalty''
''The covenfolk are extremely loyal. Using the rules on page 36 of Covenants, we get a base loyalty of –10 based on the Gifts of the member magi. However, this is replaced by 30 owing to the Loyal Covenfolk virtue (Covenants, page 18). Rosamonde as the Turb Captain and provides a +7 bonus, and Serena as Autocrat +6. The superior living conditions (+1) Jardin’s wealth allows the covenfolk provides a bonus as well''
''Base Loyalty 30 Turb Captain	 +7 Autocrat +6 Living Conditions +10 Total	+4 (53)''
''The grogs and covenfolk receive a +4 bonus to Personality Traits (including Loyal) when their loyalty is an issue. This will not apply if the question of loyalty is a dispute between the magi, and public arguments or Serena continuing to make threats of harsh punishments against the loyal grogs could quickly reduce the prevailing loyalty modifier. In order to reverse this trend, the covenant can employ a steward and a chamberlain, both of whom help to improve the prevailing loyalty. Loyalty is discussed in Covenants, pages 30–39.''

==Jardin as a Background Covenant==

''Magi know that Jardin has a strange secret, and the Redcaps talk openly of the belief that those who sleep there too long are cursed with knowledge of their Heart’s Desire, always depicted as something terrible and frightening. This may well intrigue those who hear of it, and they may set off to seek to understand the mystery, find their Heart’s Desire or break the curse. While Joia eventually explains the truth to those she comes to trust, getting her to allow one to perform the quest requires considerable tact or cunning. Indeed any attempt by the player characters to negotiate access to resources such as the library or even find a night’s shelter are likely to draw the visitors into the tangled politics of the council. It is important not to overlook the theme of Jardin, romantic love. Even Hermetic magi can fall in love, and the characters of Jardin can easily become objects of roman''
''tic interest in your saga, drawing magi from your covenant to become involved in the mysteries and politics of the place. Stories could explore Jardin from other viewpoints than those of Hermetic magi. If, for some reason such as a convention, the storyguide wishes to use Jardin for a simple oneoff story, a knight seeking his Heart’s Desire, a troubadour longing to learn the mystery of the garden of love, a group of inquisitors seeking to uncover heresy, or a party of crusaders attempting to take this rebel fortress by siege or cunning could make for exciting stories that draw upon the covenant as presented. Of course, as an old covenant, Jardin, while isolationist in recent decades, has a longstanding set of relationships with the other Provençal covenants, and given the conflicts within that Tribunal seeking out the votes of Jardin would be a sensible move for any politically astute covenant within the Tribunal. This would involve careful diplomacy to get as many of the bitterly divided Jardin magi to back your motion as possible. Finally, the fall of Jardin, which epitomizes many of the values of Provençal civilization, could be used as a landmark event in your saga, as the crusade finally suppresses the culture of the region, and the repercussions of its downfall could drive stories for your covenant.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
