
[|
''Few visitors come to this mist-shrouded valley in Hibernia’s northern Ulaid province, but it is home to faeries who live deep underground in the dark, giants, and an isolated and insular covenant of magi. Deep in Winter, the covenant of Longmist is dominated by two elder magi, one living at the top of the tower in the light and air, and the other in the cellars and cisterns amid the dark and the earth. Its magi live life according to a strict rule describing the structure of their days, their conduct, and even their studies. Despite this, Longmist is a conflicted covenant, bereft of leadership, and destined to fall in on itself; reprieve from Winter seems unlikely. Perhaps there is another way. As the elders continue their descent into Twilight and infirmity, the younger magi of the covenant could chart a course between the extremes represented by their elders. But will they work together to govern by accord, or will they succumb to the same in-fighting that has blighted Longmist for the last two generations? Winter may be inescapable, but the magi have it within their power to weather the storm.''

==History==

''The Hibernian covenant of Longmist was founded in 927 in a mist-shrouded valley between Lough Beagh and Lough Inshagh in the province of Ulaid, and it spent its early days securing and defending its lands. The valley was already contested by both druids and a Bjornaer wolf and his followers. On their own, the magi of what was to become Longmist were no match for either. And so they sought allies in the Túatha Dé Danann of the otherworld. There is no record of the bargain struck with the people who live under the ground, but it is a relationship that persists today.''
''The Túatha Dé Danann helped the magi defeat the druids and then to defend their land against the Bjornaer magi for a year, long enough to form their covenant with the shield of Cú Chulainn as their cathach or trophy. Impressive courtyards were designed and built, and when eventually a new regio formed over the covenant, a new tower was raised within it. For the next seventy years, the magi of Longmist entertained magi, faeries, and nobles from across Ulaid, growing in wealth and reputation all the while. The covenant’s isolation started during the Schism War when the magi of Longmist withdrew to their inner tower. However, their old Bjornaer foes took advantage of the widespread conflict and raided the covenant, seeking Cú Chulainn’s shield. One magus and three apprentices were killed in the raid and the shield was taken. The Túatha Dé Danann armed their allies and the retaliation was swift, resulting in the death of Ualgrimm, the Bjornaer elder. The shield was shattered in the attempt to reclaim it, so at the urging of the Túatha Dé Danann,''
''the Bjornaer pelt was taken in its stead and this serves as the Cathach to this day. Longmist’s defense of its lands earned it respect, but the magi chose to continue their insular ways and live quietly apart, playing only a limited part in the politics of the Tribunal. Eventually, trade with other covenants dwindled, as did correspondence. Before long, the covenant closed its gates to all but its covenfolk and the occasional Redcap. Despite its isolation, Longmist never had trouble acquiring apprentices. Insular it may have been, but always respectful of Ireland’s druids. For a long time, when the druids found a Gifted child, they first came to Longmist to trade. The last century has seen foreign invaders, both mundane and Hermetic, come to Hibernia. Longmist broke its silence and called for these newcomers to be hounded out of the Tribunal.  These calls were ignored, resentment for which is still strong within the covenant.''

==Boons and Hooks==

''The covenant is described through the following Boons and Hooks: Aura (Major Boon): The mundane world contains only part of Longmist. The magi live and work in a tower that exists within a regio that sits atop the old covenant buildings, which have long been left to the covenfolk. Within this regio, which contains the main tower, the aura rises to six. An enchanted doorway provides a permanent route into the regio, so it is modeled here as an increased localized aura rather than by taking the Regio Boon. Magical Fortress (Major Boon): This is a tall tower raised from within the regio. The''

=The Covenant of Longmist=

''Year Founded: 927 Season: Winter Symbol: A Wolf Pelt Cathach: The pelt of a Bjornaer Wolf''

|]
''tower was conjured through ritual during Longmist’s long summer and is the work of a long-since dead Verditius specialist. Mystical Allies (Major Boon): Longmist’s name carries weight with the Fir Bolg of Ireland, with airy spirits of the land and sky, and with the non-Hermetic druids of Connacht. Aura x2 (Minor Boon): The covenant’s general aura is five. Seclusion (Minor Boon): Long before the Normans came to Ulaid, the people of that land learned not to interfere with the druids of the long mists, and so the covenant receives few visitors to the valley that shrouds it. Small Tower (Free Choice): The visible expanse of Longmist is a relatively small tower surrounded by walls. The walls offer some security but are not defensible against determined opposition. Divided Loyalty (Major Hook): The remaining covenfolk have loyalty to one of the two elder magi of Longmist. They hope to receive favor by supporting one over the''
''other. This extends to the younger magi too, and perceived allies of one elder magus may be treated with suspicion by servants of the other. Fractured Council (Major Hook): The council is in deadlock. The position of princeps is vacant and both of the elder magi desire it. The younger magi may be called upon to undertake tasks for these opposing masters and must chart a careful course between them. Contested Resource (Minor Hook): All Hibernian covenants must have a Cathach, or trophy, to prove their connection to Ireland and their worthiness to hold their lands. It must be kept outside the Aegis as a challenge to those who would test themselves against the covenant. In this case, Longmist’s Cathach is the pelt of a Bjornaer magus, ancestor to a covenant of Bjornaer wolves. The continued display of the pelt is an insult that has never been forgiven. Crumbling (Minor Hook): The covenant is poorly-maintained, with plaster''
''and mortar flaking from the walls, gates rusted shut, and doors and window shutters warped and ill-fitting. Deathbed Visitor (Minor Hook): The local Ulaidh people fear the cry of the banshee as it heralds a doom. There are few things that would drive the mundane to the walls of Longmist, but the ungodly wail foretelling death is one of them. The covenant itself is not immune from the banshee’s power and it may be heard circling the valley, portending the death of one of the covenfolk. If the magi can capture the banshee, however, they may be able to prevent the death. Dwindling Resource (Minor Hook): For years, the walls of Longmist have produced raw Vim vis. But the yield has recently been falling. Whether this is because the aura is generating less vis or the covenfolk have become less adept at finding it isn’t clear. This Hook applies to the From the Very Walls Themselves vis source as described later. From the start of play, the source loses 10% of its yield each year.''

[|

==Hibernia==

''For much of its existence, Hibernia was paid little notice by the continent and its magi were received with slight regard. All that changed when the English crossed the sea and wrested control of Ireland from its High King. With this change in mundane politics, the Order looked again at Hibernia and found a land rich in Magical auras and vis. Over the last fifty years, magi from across the sea have come to Hibernia to claim land and form new covenants, something that has caused much concern to the elders of Hibernia, who fear that they will ultimately be displaced. The western province of Connacht had long ago been ceded to a loose organization of hedge wizards; under a centuries-old treaty no magus of the Order may spend more than three nights under a Connacht sky. This leaves a large part of Ireland that the Order cannot, under current treaties, exploit. Young magi spend a year or more between the end of their apprenticeship and their acceptance into the Order undertaking the macgnímartha (MOC-guh-nee-morhuh), or youthful exploits. As they sit outside the Order, all of Hibernia is open to them and this time is used to seek out adventure, find friends and allies, and challenge themselves against enemies and rivals. They do not yet have the Parma Magica, and so must get by on their wits. Each Hibernian covenant must have a cathach or trophy, and display it outside of''
''their Aegis of the Hearth. This is both a statement and a challenge; a statement as to the covenant’s fitness to rule their lands and a challenge to others to take it from them. Without their cathach, a covenant is not considered part of the Tribunal and its lands do not enjoy the protection of the code. And without a covenant, a magus is not resident and may not vote at Tribunal. For full details on Hibernia, see The Contested Isle.''
''The Elder Races of Ireland''
''Ireland has not always been populated by man. In years gone by Ireland has seen a number of “invasions”, each of which has seen power change hands and the incumbent peoples marginalized. The Fomórach (pronounced FUH-mowrakh, singular Fomóir, FUH-mowr) are the original peoples of Ireland. In their day they were powerful giants, and they fought with all the subsequent tribes who came to Ireland, eventually being defeated. Those who remain in the mortal realm now live in the kingdom of Tír Fhomóraig, an island off Ulaid’s northern coast. Fomóir characters are Magic Humans (Realms of Power: Magic, page 32) possessing the Giant Blood Virtue. All have obvious deformations, but no two fomórach are the same. They have been cursed that they may not set foot on Irish soil. The Fir Bolg were the first to divide the''
''land into the four provinces. Having been defeated by the Túatha Dé Danann, they were given their choice of province in which to live. The Fir Bolg chose Connacht and then withdrew from the rest of Ireland. They have since been forced even from Connacht, and most live on the Isles of Aran off Connacht’s west coast where they scrape a hard living in the wind-ravaged soil. The Fir Bolg are Magic Humans and were once tall, handsome, and mighty. While subject to the Fomórach, their blood mixed with that of the giants and only the Fir Bolg royal lines are now free from Fomórach deformities. The Túatha Dé Danann are the offspring of humans, bested by the Fomórach and driven from Ireland. They worshiped the continental Celtic faeries and from them learned of art, warfare, and magic. On their return to Ireland, they drove the Fir Bolg to the west and defeated the Fomórach, cursing them with baneful circumstances should they set foot on Irish soil again. The humans native to Ireland in 1220 are the Sons of Mil. Mil was a knight whose sons were prophesied to rule over Ireland. His armies, led by druids, eventually defeated the Túatha Dé Danann and drove them underground, out of the sunlight and into the night.''

|]
''Faerie Court (Minor Hook): The kings and princes of the Túatha Dé Danann take an active interest in the magi of Longmist, especially Conchobor and those who support him. They provide service to Conchobor, including maintaining a watch over the Cathach, but they frequently ask for service in return. Superiors (Minor Hook): The younger magi have few rights over the covenant’s resources. Requests for access or use must be put before the council and an inquorate council or veto from an elder means that the resource may be withheld. Negotiation and service is often required.''

==Magi==

''The six magi of Longmist consist of two elder magi, both in excess of 100 years of age, and four younger magi, each no older than 35. The generation between these two has been lost, either to Twilight or death. Two of these younger magi were apprenticed to the two Elders and their loyalties still lie with them. The parentes of the other two younger magi are no longer at the covenant: one through Final Twilight and the other through mortal aging and death. The magi of Longmist live under a strict rule that enforces structure upon their days, curtails their conduct, and even guides their studies. However, the magi have differing views on this rule, with some eager to explore beyond the covenant or learn magic that might draw disapproval, while others feel a responsibility to uphold the rule.''

==The Elder Magi==

''The two elder magi living at Longmist have been designed as NPCs able to guide and direct the player characters.''
''Lugh-éccnaid of The Younger House''
''Lugh-éccnaid of The Younger House, or House Ex Miscellanea to those outside Hibernia, occupies the top-most levels of the tower and watches all that goes on within the covenant. He considers himself the rightful leader of Longmist. He had been a vocal opponent to the influx of continental magi over the last 50 years, but in time, as he lost the argument, he stopped attending Tribunals and ceased correspondence with many friends turned enemies. His concern comes from seeing Ireland’s future in its past. Just as with the Fir Bolg, the Túatha Dé Danann, and the druids, he sees a time when the native Order will be sidelined and their Peripheral Code replaced by one from the continent. He has written a number of polemic texts that stress the independence of his Ordo Hiberniae. His aim is to see Hibernia secede from the Order and determine its own Code. He calls for residency to be limited to those magi who can trace their presence in Hibernia at least three generations back. Those who cannot should be re''

[|

==Covenant Summary==

''Longmist was built with a budget of 2165 Build Points, distributed as described below.''
''Resource    Build Points Enchanted Devices & Laboratories	 502 Library & Laboratory Texts  1089 Money & Wealth   30 Specialists & Teachers   286 Vis Sources & Stocks   278 Most of the covenant’s vis is in the form of stocks built up across the centuries rather than in a reliable yearly income.''

==Past Magi==

''Many magi have called Longmist home, but only six remain. So what happened to the others? Here are some notable magi, the years they were active at Longmist, and notes on their fates.''
''Magus   Years  Notes Niall of the Younger House 927 – 1011 Founder of Longmist, negotiated peace with thedruids. Fergus of Merinita 927 – 1014 Founder of Longmist, forged the alliance with the Túatha Dé Danann. Hannewalt on Bar 937 – 1049 First of the Tytalus lineage to join Longmist. He came from England and brought with him       magic and rituals for perceiving and crossing boundaries. Marcus Cordo of Flambeau	 967 – 1002 The only Flambeau to have joined Longmist, killed along with his apprentice during the       Bjornaer raid that claimed the shield of Cú Chulainn. Cearnach of Verditius 978 – 1064 Faerie-blooded smith who brought the Verditius lineage to Longmist. Wielded the blade      that took the Bjornaer pelt that now serves as the covenant’s Cathach. Retired to Verdi       on training an apprentice to continue the line. Astwick of Bonisagus 1027 – 1070 Suspected of sharing the covenant’s magical secrets with others. He was ultimately      forced from the covenant, but he took his written works and researches with him,       spending the rest of his days cloistered in Durenmar. While he trained an apprentice       during his years at Longmist, no remnant of his lineage remains. Faventinus of Verditius 1087 – 1164 Creator of the Bronze Man automaton that stands in the covenant courtyard. It was       once assumed that his magic died with him when he succumbed to Final Twilight. Calvacius of Tytalus 1125 – 1218 Parens to Mícheál Amhreaidh, he disappeared from the covenant two years ago.       Conchobor’s investigations showed that Calvacius had fallen into Final Twilight. Tadhg an Tuir of Verditius 1128 – 1218 Parens to the Cailleach, Tadhg died nearly two years ago after his Longevity Ritual      failed. He suffered an aging crisis from which no magic could pull him back. He is buied       at Qui Sonant Pro Quieto.''

|]
''moved. These texts have not been placed in the library and indeed none have yet been circulated to the Tribunal, though that may be about to change. As covenant Propraetor, he has final say over the covenant’s external relationships with mundanes, druids and hedge wizards, other covenants, and so on. He has used this influence to close down relations with magi and covenants taking a lenient view on the influx of foreign magi in the last 50 years, becoming a major contributor to the covenant’s continued isolation. Away from politics, his Corrguineach lineage (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 109) means he is well-versed in the summoning of spirits, which he employs as his eyes, ears, and agents. He has a number of Aegis tokens that he uses for this purpose, granted to the spirits and retained in his sanctum. In addition, he is Longmist’s specialist in Corpus and the covenant’s crafter of Longevity Rituals, Laboratory Texts for which can be found in the library. A vain man, Lugh swathes himself in youthful illusion through an enchantment in his talisman. He has read in the Lebor Feasa Runda that those who drink of the well called Tobar Segais, on the plain of Mag Mell, on the island of Tir Na nÓg, ruled by the giant Fomórach, will live forever. His age hangs heavy upon him, and he may soon look to his filius to fetch him some of that water. He currently benefits from a +13 Longevity Ritual bonus, but he is aware that his age is outstripping his ability to hold nature at bay.''
''Conchobor Crosach of House Merinita''
''While Lugh lives at the top of the tower, Conchobor has his sanctum and laboratory beneath ground amid the cellars and the cisterns, and it has been many years since he has left the covenant. It is here that he holds council with Túatha Dé Danann princes and ambassadors, deep underground away from the light. Conchobor considers that these links to the Túatha Dé Danann make him Longmist’s natural leader. As with Lugh, Conchobor is an isolationist, but his concerns stop at the covenant gates; let Hibernia look to itself and let those who would assault Longmist look to their chances. He is allied with the Túatha Dé Danann and shares their enmity toward the Fir Bolg and the distorted giant Fomorach. He can be a demanding man and''
''deeply suspicious of the motives of his fellow magi. A Twilight episode stripped his Parma Magica’s power to protect him from the social effects of The Gift, meaning he quickly became suspicious and distrustful of magi and their kind. Conchobor is also the covenant’s Praefectus, which gives him nominal charge over the security of the covenant’s lands outside the Aegis of the Hearth. In recent years, he has been extending this influence to cover any resources originating outside the covenant, including its vis sources and stocks. His Nature Lore (Underworld) Virtue (as per Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 103) covers all the tunnels beneath Longmist and the extended valley, and all the creatures and faeries found within. He benefits from a +12 Longevity Ritual bonus.''
''The Younger Magi''
''There are four younger magi at Longmist. These are designed to be taken up as player characters and all are within a few years’ age from each other.''
''Cailleach Dhé Dherg of House Verditius''
''With her red hair, Cailleach Dhé Dherg is a striking presence in the covenant, though often admonished for going about with her hair uncovered. She is referred to as the Cailleach by magi and covenfolk alike. She is the only maga currently at Longmist, and in fact her apprenticeship there was the cause of much argument between the elder magi of the time. Her parens, Tadhg an Tuir, held firm against the Longmist council, despite their approaches to magi of House Bonisagus. She is fascinated by the bronze man standing in the covenant’s courtyard. It is the result of Verditius mysteries and she wants to learn how to repair and awaken it, something she anticipates will take her beyond the covenant walls; as her parens realized, Longmist has little future in isolation. The bronze man is close to being irreparable, so time is now of the essence and the outside world beckons. The Cailleach has spent the last two years investing time into both her laboratory and her new talisman. Her laboratory now has a great forge capable of withstanding magically-intense temperatures and she has refined it to suit her own way''
''of working. Lugh-éccnaid has seen her handiwork and is not impressed, believing that her design strays from that expected of a Longmist maga. The Cailleach spent some of her macgnímartha as a laboratory assistant to an itinerant magus of House Verditius called Peter, time she spent learning more of her House’s secrets ahead of her Initiations.''
''Dara Connachtach of The Younger House''
''The youngest of the magi and the most recently gauntleted, Dara is often treated as an inexperienced junior, despite being just three years younger than the Cailleach. Once apprenticed to Lugh, Dara is one of the Corrguineach (Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 109), and as such he summons, bargains with, and controls elemental spirits. He has also spent some time among the druids of Connacht and even the Fir Bolg.''

[|

==Designing Your Own Magi==

''You could create your own magi instead of using the four younger magi described here, and there are specific story roles that could be filled:''
''The maga Cailleach Dhé Dherg provides an impetus to explore Longmist’s Verditius heritage and could be a focus for rebuilding the covenant’s magical assets. The magus Dara Connachtach provide a cultural link back to Connacht, providing reasons for either exploring that province outright or at least in reestablishing links to the hedge wizards and druids who live there. As a member of House Merinita, Eochaid Dubh provides an obvious link between the covenant and the faeries found across the valley and beyond. Mícheál Amhreaidh has a responsibility to the covenant. He represents covenant tradition as passed down through the generations. As such, he is an obvious future leader, one who may need to balance progress with tradition.''
''These places within the covenant’s story are independent of whether the individual magi want to maintain their seclusion or participate again within the Tribunal and they are independent of their view of the magi arriving from the continent. Magi with strong views on those subjects also enhance story potential at Longmist.''

==Lugh-éccnaid==

''Characteristics: Int +3 (2), Per 0, Pre 0, Com +4 (2), Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 125 (90) Decrepitude: 0 (4) Warping Score: 8 (20) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Elemental Magic, Sihr*; Affinity with Rego, Good Teacher, Great Communication, Minor Magical Focus (Elemental Spirits)*; Favors (Airy Spirit), Twilight Prone*; Driven (For Hibernia to withdraw from the Order), Flawed Parma Magica (Corpus), Slow Caster * House Virtues and Flaws Personality Traits: Driven +6, Secretive +3, Unforgiving +2, Vain +2, Manipulative +1 Reputations: Beneficent master 3 (Spirits of Ulaid), Isolationist 1 (Hibernian Magi) Combat: Dodge: Init +2, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Fist: Init +2, Attack +1, Defense +2, Damage +1 Staff of Lugh: Init +2, Attack +1, Defense +2, Damage +1 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Hibernia 5 (personalities), Artes Liberales 4 (ritual magic), Awareness 3 (determining effect), Bargain 4 (spirits), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Faerie Lore 3 (faeries of the waterways), Finesse 3 (targeting), Guile 3 (elaborate lies), Intrigue 4 (alliances), Gaelic 5 (prose), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 5 (elemental spirits), Magic Lore 5 (creatures), Magic Theory 11 (Longevity Rituals), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 5 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 5 (politics), Parma Magica 4 (Auram), Penetration 5 (Auram), Philosophiae 4 (Ritual magic) Corrguineach Art: Sihr 11 ** **	 Sihr is an Accelerated Ability Names of Power: 10 Names of Power known (providing Arcane Connections to ten airy spirits) Arts: Cr 14, In 8, Mu 8, Pe 18, Re 19, An 5, Aq 18, Au 18, Co 19, He 5, Ig 17, Im 5, Me 10, Te 17, Vi 14 Equipment: Staff (talisman) Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: His natural appearance is that of an ancient old man, all bent bones, hollow eyes and cheeks, and withered fingers. He is usually wrapped in illusion however, in which case he appears healthy, robust, and energetic. He has a stern gaze but is otherwise pleasant enough. Casting Sigil: His spells and effects are preceded by a misty impression of the spell’s target, which grows from Lugh’s hands or magical device. While the mist fades within a round, magical investigation can recall the sigil according to the''
''usual rules for Intellego Vim effects.''
''Voting Sigil: A silver disk made into a medallion many years ago. It has a polished moonstone mounted through the middle. Spells Known: Master the Airy Spirit of Aquam (ReAq 30) +55† Summon the Airy Spirit of Aquam (ReAq 35) +55† Master the Airy Spirit of Auram (ReAu 30) +55† Summon the Airy Spirit of Auram (ReAu 35) +55† Incantation of the Body Made Whole (CrCo 40) +43 Master the Airy Spirit of Ignem (ReIg 30) +53† Summon the Airy Spirit of Ignem (ReIg 35) +53† Reveal the Lingering Spirit (InMe 20) +18 Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (PeMe 20) +28 Coerce the Spirit of Anger (ReMe 20) +29*** Coerce the Spirits of the Night (ReMe 20) +29 Master the Airy Spirit of Terram (ReTe 30) +53† Summon the Airy Spirit of Terram (ReTe 35) +53† The Invisible Eye Revealed (InVi 30) +22 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 20) +22 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 40) +22 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 15) +32 Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 25) +33 Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 35) +33 ***	Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 99 † Focus applied''
''New Spells''
''Master the Airy Spirit of (Elemental Form) Re(Form) 30 R: Voice, D: Moon, T: Individual Commands an airy spirit associated with the elemental form to serve the magus for Moon duration. If the spell penetrates the spirit’s Magic Resistance, make a stress roll of Com + Leadership to judge how fully-controlled the spirit is. (Base: 5, +2 Voice, +3 Moon)''
''Summon the Airy Spirit of (Elemental Form) Re(Form) 35 R: Arcane, D: Momentary, T: Individual Summons the target airy spirit into the caster’s presence. There is nothing to compel the spirit to stay once summoned. (Base: 15, +4 Arcane Connection)''
''Lugh-éccnaid’s Talisman''
''Lugh’s talisman is a slender staff of rowan wood that has developed a lustrous patina over nearly a century of use. An agate is affixed to the staff’s head, bound by strips of leather and resin. It has been opened to 20 pawns of vis so far, and 15 of those pawns have been spent on enchantments.''
''Perfect Circle ReHe 13 Pen +0, Unlimited R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual The staff draws a geometrically-perfect standard-sized circle in the ground without the need for the magus to guide the staff,''
''particularly useful when concentrating on other spells or preparing to cast a Circle spell. Note that a magus must still trace the circle by hand to actually cast a Ring or Circle spell (ArM5, page 112). (Effect: Base 3; Modifications: +10 Unlimited Use)''
''Lifting the Dangling Puppet ReCo 40 Pen +20, Unlimited R: Voice, D: Concentration, T: Individual As per the spell in ArM5, page 134. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +5 Device maintains concentration, +10 Unlimited Use, +10 for +20 penetration)''
''Invocation of Weariness PeCo 40 Pen +20, Unlimited R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual As per the spell in ArM5, page 133. (Effect: Base 10 +2 Voice; Modifications: +10 Unlimited Use, +10 for +20 penetration)''
''Whispers Through the Black Gate InCo(Me) 25 Pen +0, Unlimited R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual As per the spell in ArM5, page 130. (Effect: Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +10 Unlimited Use)''
''The Youthful Visage MuIm 14 Pen +0, 12/day R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Individual Despite Lugh’s years, this effect returns his youthful appearance, becoming once more a man in his early thirties. In his vanity, he is rarely seen without this effect in operation, but mindful of additional Warping he suspends the effect when alone. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +4 for 12/day, +5 device maintains concentration)''
''Attunements: Agate: +3 Air Agate: +5 Protection from Storms Staff: +2 Repel things Staff: +4 Control things at a distance Staff: +4 Destroy things at a distance''

|]
''During his macgnímartha or “beardless years”, he took to traveling with a man called Brea, schooled in spirits. Against his advice, and at the prompting of bravado, Dara summoned a spirit that he could not then control. The spirit, angry and powerful, attacked the pair. While Dara ran and escaped the druid lost his life to the spirit. Dara has not told anyone within Longmist of this secret shame. He respects and fears his parens, and knows about the books that Lugh has written, but does not share Lugh’s view of the Order.''
''Eochaid Dubh of House Merinita''
''Once apprenticed to Conchobor, Eochaid is an accomplished illusionist, and he has so far eschewed the Merinita Mysteries in favor of improving his understanding of Imaginem. Uncertain how much further he has to travel on that path, he is now coming round to the idea of learning more about his Merinita heritage. Eochaid is easily led and has a weakness''
''for music and carousing. He is frequently forced to eat his meals separately from the other magi as punishment for joining the covenfolk in their carouse. He has no talisman or familiar, but he has enhanced his laboratory in preparation. He has gained the attention of a mundane magpie that frequently visits him while he works. Eochaid risks further punishment by bringing scraps of food to his chambers for the bird, but he considers the company to be worth it. He spent much of his macgnímartha as a drunkard, carousing his way around Hibernia. His drinking combined with the effect of The Gift upon his drinking partners placed him in harm’s way more than once. Although familiar with the Túatha Dé Danann, he does not trust their motives.''
''Mícheál Amhreaidh of House Tytalus''
''Mícheál is the covenant’s Censor, or master of rituals, and in a covenant that''
''strongly promotes communal spell-casting, Mícheál leads the communions. Unlike the other magi of Longmist, who are all nominally Christian, Mícheál has been taught a different path, one of veneration to the goddess Domnu. Rationally, he understands the power of the Dominion and understands that the entity he knows as Domnu is one of the primal Kosmokrators (Realms of Power: Magic, page 109) and as such subject to a greater power, but through years of tuition and study he accepts his faith in her power. He believes that the old magics of Ireland hold promise for the future and would like one day to see them integrated with Magic Theory, if not by his hand then perhaps under his sponsorship. His future talisman is a circlet of silver, into which are embedded numerous jewels and precious stones, a crown purportedly from the old times. It has been owned by generations of the covenant’s Censors, each disenchanting it before passing it to the next so that they may attune it as their own talisman. Mícheál views his wardship''

[|

==Conchobor==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre –1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 112 (75) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 6 (20) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Major Magical Focus (Commanding Natural Forces), Strong Goblin Blood*; Faerie Magic**, Good Teacher, Nature Lore (Underworld), Second Sight***; Deficient Technique (Muto), Favors (Túatha Dé Danann); Difficult Spontaneous Magic, Hatred (Lugh) * Provides +1 to stealth totals and he has small horns protruding from his head ** House Virtue *** Gained through Strong Faerie Blood Personality Traits: Hateful toward Lugh +3, Insular +3, Charming –1 Reputations: Willing ally 4 (Túatha Dé Danann) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense –1, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack –1, Defense –1, Damage +0 Bludgeon: Init –2, Attack +1, Defense –1, Damage +2 Soak: +2 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Ulaid 4 (legends),''
''Artes Liberales 3 (ceremonial magic), Burrow Lore 5, Code of Hermes 3 (Tribunal procedures), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Faerie Lore 7 (The Túatha Dé Danann), Faerie Magic 5 (Intellego), Finesse 4 (precision), Guile 3 (lying concerning his magic), Gaelic 5 (poetry), Latin 5 (Hermetic usage), Magic Lore 6 (regiones), Magic Theory 10 (Intellego), Merinita Cult Lore  4 (Initiating self), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 4 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 3 (politics), Parma Magica 6 (Mentem), Penetration 4 (Animal), Philosophiae 3 (ceremonial magic), Second Sight 6 (invisible faeries), Underworld Lore 5 (navigation) Arts: Cr 9, In 18, Mu 12, Pe 9, Re 15, An 14, Aq 7, Au 9, Co 5, He 12, Ig 6, Im 6, Me 7, Te 9, Vi 11 Twilight Scars: His Parma Magica does not shield him from the effects of The Gift Equipment: Bronze arm talisman, cloak, and staff, as described below. Encumbrance: 1 (1) Appearance: Hunched and wrinkled, his sparse white hair is cut short and stands up in patchy clumps. He is forever watching from the corner of his hooded eyes. His left arm appears to be made of banded bronze and it still retains a robust classical youthfulness, though its weight drags him down on his left side. Casting Sigil: Black mist swirls around his right arm and hand. Voting Sigil: A large bronze broach em''
''bossed and patterned around the edges. Spells Known: Image of the Beast (InAn 5) +34 Opening the Tome of the Animal’s Mind (InAn 25) +34 To See as Others See**** (In(Re)An 45) +45† The Gentle Beast (ReAn 25) +45† Viper’s Gaze (ReAn 15) +31 Mastering the Unruly Beast (ReAn 25) +45† Ward Against the Beasts of Legend (ReAn 25) +45† Voice of the Lake (InAq 25) +27 Gathering of the Stormy Might (ReAu 40) +35† Stir the Slumbering Tree (MuHe(Me) 25) +14† Lord of the Trees (ReHe 25) +41† Calling the Council of the Trees (Re(In)He 45) +47† Tales of the Ashes (InIg 5) +26 Leap of the Fire (ReIg 10) +29† The Obedient Fire (ReIg 20) +29† Prying Eyes (InIm 5) +26 Summoning the Distant Image (InIm 25) +26 Veil of Invisibility (PeIm 20) +17 Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10) +23 Silence of the Smothered Sound (PeIm 20) +17 Sense the Feet that Tread the Earth (InTe 30) +29 Stone Tell of the Mind that Sits (InTe 30) +29 Earth Shock (ReTe 30) +26 Sense of Faerie Power (InVi 2) +31 Sense of Magical Power (InVi 2) +31 Opening the Intangible Tunnel (ReVi 30) +28''
''**** Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 139 † Focus applied''

|]
''of the crown as an honor and is keen to design his own effects one day to increase its growing lore. He spent his macgnímartha traveling between old pagan sites across Hibernia, and his devotion to the old religion is known across the Tribunal. A decisive moment happened during this time: he was found and set-upon by Longmist’s traditional enemies; a covenant of Bjornaer magi. Gravely wounded, he was eventually rescued by a Fir Bolg war band. He has held a deep antipathy for all Bjornaer magi since then. His role as Censor makes him responsible for ensuring that the other younger magi behave as expected.''

==Notable Covenfolk==

''Longmist has few covenfolk. Most are growing old without issue and slowly succumbing to Warping. Those who remain have split loyalties, and while they nominally function together, Longmist’s descent into winter means that little is done without explicit guidance from the magi.''

==Companions==

''Given the covenant’s isolation, there are only two companion characters currently associated with Longmist.''
''Bran in Gai Móir''
''Bran is the turb captain responsible for ensuring that the grogs carry out their duties. He is distrustful of Conchobor’s allies so naturally favors Lugh. He is married to Ailbhe, a woman eight years his junior, but they are childless. Bran blames the magi, suspecting that they have enchanted him in some way. As he is not yet''

[|

==Conchobor (Cont’d) Conchobor’s Talisman==

''Conchobor enchanted a bronze glove, created for him by a smith of the Túatha Dé Danann. The bronze was smelted in fires fueled by exotic citrus woods from far across the seas and the glove was as supple as calf-leather. Before he took this wondrous item into his laboratory, however, he had Faventinus of Verditius carefully replace each rivet with one made of iron. He then opened the device for enchantment and with its first effect invested took it to the Túatha Dé Danann. He tried to use its new power to best his allies, to become their master, but he misjudged their power and their response was swift. They caused the glove to grow and to fuse with his flesh such that it now covers his left arm from shoulder to finger tip. The pain of that experience stays with him still as does the memory that the Túatha Dé Danann still hold a powerful Arcane Connection to him: a coin forged by Ruadan of the Túatha Dé Danann from Conchobor’s pain. The Arm of Conchobor has been opened with 20 pawns of vis and enchanted with the following effects, which use 13 pawns of space:''
''The Guiding Hand PeCo 30 Pen +22, 12/day R: Voice, D: Concentration, T: Individual Causes pain to people or creatures normally affected by Corpus effects, such as faeries that adopt human forms and identities. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +11 for +22 Penetration, +4 for 12/day)''
''Bring the Light CrIg 19 Pen +0, 12/day R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual Like Lamp without Flame, Conchobor’s arm gives off a white light, illuminating an''
''area about ten paces across. Once triggered, the device maintains concentration. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +4 for 12/day, +5 device maintains concentration)''
''Banish the Light PeIg 25 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Structure As the spell Well Without Light, all light is magically subdued in the target structure. Creo Ignem effects greater than level 20 can overcome this magical darkness. (Effect: Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration, +3 Structure; +5 device maintains concentration)''
''This Room is Mine to Command ReTe 30 Pen +0, unlimited use R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Room Allows Conchobor to remotely manipulate items in his environment as though he had Strength +5. Particularly fine control requires Finesse stress rolls against Ease Factors of 12 or more. (Effect: Base 3, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration, +2 Room; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''
''Attunements: Iron: +7 harm or repel faeries Glove: +4 affect things by touch Glove: +4 manipulation at a distance Bronze:	 +5 darkness''
''Conchobor’s Devices''
''Conchobor has created the following devices:''
''Cloak of the Túatha Dé Danann InVi 40 Pen +14, Unlimited Use R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Vision When wrapped around him, the cloak allows Conchobor to pass through faerie regiones as easily as the Túatha Dé Danann themselves do. The effect is triggered by proximity to the boundary, and the wearer can decide whether to step through or not. The effect must penetrate the Magic Resistance of its wearer in order to reveal the way through the boundary. As a result, Conchobor has to suspend his Parma Magica to use this device. (Effect: Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 Vision Target; Modifications: +3 triggered by proximity to the regio boundary, +10 unlimited use, +7 for +14 Penetrations)''
''Staff of Denial ReVi 30 Pen +16, 1/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Special This device is a staff made from dogwood, shod with lead, and with a chain of iron shackles secured at the top. When the staff is dragged in a line on any surface, no faerie with Might of 15 or less may cross that line. This warding effect is less powerful than a circular ward, but drawing the line requires no concentration and is usually sufficient to create a lesser ward across an opening or tunnel. It has been designed with a base effect of 4; we are using the base effect normally associated with a standard ward against Might 15 creatures and reworking it for different effect parameters. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Special Target; Modifications: +2 for 6/day, +8 for +16 Penetration)''

==The Cailleach==

''Characteristics: Int +3, Per –1, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 31 (31) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (1) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Maga; Major Magical Focus (metals); Adept Laboratory Student, Inventive Genius, Verditius Magic*; Tormenting Master (Lugh-éccnaid and Conchobor agree; Longmist is no place for a woman); Driven (Prove her value at Longmist), Ability Block (Martial) * House Virtue Personality Traits: Driven +3, Keen to venture out of the covenant +2, Practical +1 Reputations: An ill-omen 3 (elders and covenfolk of Longmist), Studious 1 (magi of Hibernia) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +1, Defense +0, Damage +0 Knife: Init +0, Attack +2, Defense +0, Damage +2 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Craft: Armorer 2 (mail), Artes Liberales 3 (ritual magic), Craft: Blacksmith 2 (steel working), Code of Hermes 2 (Tribunal procedures), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Dominion Lore 1 (saints), Faerie Lore 1 (Túatha Dé Danann), Finesse 2 (Craft Magic), Infernal Lore 1 (demons), Gaelic 5 (poetry), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 1 (laboratory work), Magic Lore 1 (Irish magical traditions), Magic Theory 5 (enchanting items), Parma Magica 2 (Vim), Penetration 2 (Vim), Philosophiae 3 (enchantments), Craft: Swordsmith 2 (long sword), Verditius Cult Lore 2 (modifying Initiation scripts) Arts: Cr 5, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 5, An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 3, He 0, Ig 0, Im 0, Me 2, Te 6, Vi 9 Equipment: Casting Tools; Wand of the Cailleach (talisman) Encumbrance: 1 (1) Appearance: When not feeling rebellious, the Cailleach’s red hair is tied and covered demurely by a veil. She is small, well-formed, and fair of face with green eyes. Casting Sigil: A light red mist swirls around''
''the target during the casting or device activation. Voting Sigil: A highly-polished disk of copper of remarkable clarity and evenness. Spells Known: A Visible Demand for Repair (MuIm 5) +6** Eyes of the Eons (InTe 10) +12 Rusted Decay of Ten-Score Years (PeTe 10) +12 The Crystal Dart (Mu(Re)Te 10) +12 Fist of Shattering (PeTe 10) +12 Unseen Arm (ReTe 5) +12 The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +12 Piercing the Magical Veil (InVi 20) +15 Piercing the Faerie Veil (InVi 20) +15 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 20) +15 **	 Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 65''
''Wand of the Cailleach''
''Cailleach’s talisman takes the form of a slender wand of gleaming steel. From afar, it appears to be a solid piece, but its construction is revealed close-up. It has a core of colored glass that runs its length and the wand was made in the manner of a rope twisted around this core. Here and there, the colored glass appears behind and through the steel, and it glows when magical power is used through it. The steel used in the wand was reforged from what was once a magical lamp created by one of her forebears at the covenant. Its current vis capacity is 10 with all of those pawns used. Cailleach’s Verditius Magic provides a +4 (equal to her Philosophiae Score and specialty) Shape and Material bonus to future enchantments.''
''Sense the Scale of Divine Power InVi 9 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Touch The wand constantly collects information on the prevailing aura surrounding it. Both the supernatural realm and the intensity of the aura is detected through four effects, each dedicated to a particular realm. The information gathered is not relayed directly to the item’s wielder but is used instead to trigger a further effect, described below, which avoids the danger of a constant source of Warping. (Effect: Base 2, +1 Touch Target, +2 Sun; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Three other similar effects are also enchanted into the wand to detect Infernal, Magical, and Faerie auras.''
''Know the Power InVi 25 Pen +0, Unlimited R: Personal, D: Momentary, T: Individual This effect is triggered by the four Sense the Scale effects described above. Its sole purpose is to gather the information made available by those effects and make it available to subsequent effects that may then be subsequently triggered by this effect. (Effect: Base 3; Modifications: +12 linked triggers, +10 unlimited use)''
''The Power’s Light CrIg 22 Pen +0, Unlimited R: Personal, D: Concentration, T: Individual Triggered by the Know the Power effect described above, the glass within the wand glows with a pure white light when in the presence of the Dominion. The light increases in brightness with the magnitude of the aura such that the Cailleach, and those who understand the effect, are always aware of the aura and its strength. Information gained from the linked effects are as follows:''
''• The light glows white in the presence of a Dominion aura. • The light glows red in the presence of an Infernal aura. • The light glows blue in the presence of a Magical aura. • The light glows green in the presence of a Faerie aura.''
''(Effect: Base 3, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +3 linked trigger, +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''
''Attunements: Wand: +2 Repel things Wand: +3 Project bolt or other missile Wand: +4 Control things at a distance Wand: +4 Destroy things at a distance Lamp: +7 Produce light Lamp: +4 Create fire''

==Eochaid Dubh==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 32 (32) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (3) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Major Magical Focus (visual images); Affinity with Imaginem, Faerie Magic*, Inoffensive to Animals; Difficult Longevity Ritual; Animal Companion, Weakness (Carousing) * House Virtue Personality Traits: Convivial +3, Ambitious –1, Honest +2 Reputations: Carouser 2 (Longmist covenfolk), Disobedient 2 (Longmist magi), Drunkard 1 (magi of Hibernia) Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +2, Defense +0, Damage +0 Soak: +1 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Artes Liberales 2 (ritual magic), Awareness 2 (determining effect), Carouse 2 (drinking songs), Code of Hermes 1 (Tribunal procedures), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Faerie Lore 3 (Túatha Dé Danann), Faerie Magic 4 (Imaginem), Finesse 2 (Imaginem), Folk Ken 2 (the opposite sex), Guile 2 (lying to authority), Gaelic 5 (storytelling), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Magic Lore 2 (creatures), Magic Theory 4 (Imaginem), Music 2 (sing), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 2 (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (politics), Parma Magica 1 (Corpus), Philosophiae 2 (ceremonial magic) Arts: Cr 5, In 5, Mu 5, Pe 5, Re 5, An 0, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 5, He 0, Ig 0, Im 14, Me 0, Te 0, Vi 0 Equipment: Often squirrels food scraps into a pouch at his belt for his magpie companion. Usually found experimenting with various might-be wouldbe talismans, never the same one twice,''
''to see what feels right. Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Eochaid has pale skin but very black hair and dark eyes. He is always ready with a smile, though his normal expression around magi is one of apologetic contrition. Casting Sigil: Mist seeps through the ground in the area around the caster. Voting Sigil: A disk of lead and iron inscribed with a horseshoe on the leaden side. Spells Known: Phantasmal Animal (CrIm 20) +25 ** Phantasm of the Human Form (CrIm 25) +25 ** Prying Eyes (InIm 5) +25 ** Summoning the Distant Image (InIm 25) +25 ** Notes of a Delightful Sound (MuIm 10) +20 Disguise of the Transformed Image (MuIm 15) +25 ** Veil of Invisibility (PeIm 20) +25 ** Wizard’s Sidestep (ReIm 10) +25 ** Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 10) +6 **	 Major Magical Focus applied''

==Dara Connachtach==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +3, Com +2, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik –1 Size: 0 Age: 28 (28) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 1 (7) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Elemental Magic, Sihr*; Minor Magical Focus (elemental spirits)*, Puissant Sihr, Cautious with Sihr; Dark Secret (killed a druid while undertaking his macgnímartha), Twilight Prone*; Fragile Constitution, Humble (Minor) * Minor Focus applied Personality Traits: Humble +3, Questioning +3, Impulsive +2, Friendly +1 Reputations: Inexperienced 2 (Spirits of Ulaid, druids of Connacht, and the Fir Bolg), Spent time in Connacht 1 (magi of Hibernia) Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense –1, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack –1, Defense –1, Damage –1 Knife: Init –1, Attack +0, Defense –1, Damage +1 Bludgeon: Init –2, Attack +1, Defense –1, Damage +1 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious''
''Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Connacht 2 (history), Artes Liberales 1 (Ritual magic), Athletics 2 (running), Bargain 4 (summoned spirits), Charm 2 (first impressions), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Faerie Lore 2 (faerie spirits), Gaelic 5 (Storytelling), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Magic Lore 2 (magical spirits), Magic Theory 4 (Mentem), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 2 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 1 (history), Parma Magica 2 (Vim), Penetration 2 (Rego), Philosophiae 2 (Ritual magic) Corrguineach Art: Sihr 8+2 (earth spirits) Arts: Cr 2, In 5, Mu 3, Pe 6, Re 6, An 0, Aq 0, Au 3, Co 5, He 0, Ig 0, Im 0, Me 7, Te 0, Vi 5 Equipment: Satchel filled with vials and flasks, always ready to take samples. Encumbrance: 1 (1) Appearance: A handsome man, very slender and well-proportioned. He has thick chestnut hair and symmetrical features. The belt around his robe is strung with sticks, rabbit feet, herbs, and even old wooden spoons; the remnants of Arcane Connections to various spirits he has encountered.''
''Casting Sigil: A misty outline of the target is formed between caster and target, before dissipating. Voting Sigil: An iron disk, thick and roughly beaten. Spells Known: Charm Against Putrefaction (CrCo 10) +7 Whispers Through the Black Gate (InCo(Me) 15) +10 Words of the Unbroken Silence (CrMe 10) +9 Reveal the Lingering Spirit (InMe 20) +12 Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit (PeMe 10) +13 Tip of the Tongue (PeMe 5) +13 Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 15) +8 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 10) +11 Dreadful Bane of the Fae (PeVi 10) +11 Lash the Wayward Spirit (PeVi 10) +16* Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 10) +11''
''Lash the Wayward Spirit PeVi 10 R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual As per Demon’s Eternal Oblivion, described in ArM5, page 160, but for magical spirits. (Base, +2 Voice)''

|]
''subject to a Longevity Ritual, their childlessness is nothing to do with that particular enchantment. As loyal as he has been, his resentment is growing and he might soon confront them. When he does, the magi may feel the need to research fertility magic in order to help. He has been trained in the Clesa by Úathach of the Túatha Dé Danann. These supernatural feats of martial prowess have been used in Ireland since before the times of Cú Chulainn in the age of legend. More details on the Clesa can be found in The Contested Isle: The Hibernian Tribunal.''
''Éamonn Cruittire''
''Éamonn Cruittire mac Aindileas Uí hEódhasa comes from the line of Baile Uí Eódhasa, magical Ulaidh bards, or filídh. Like his forefathers, he has the power to enchant others through his storytelling, a power that has been passed from father to son. He has spent many years memorizing stories, mostly of ancient battles, feuds,''
''and conflicts, and taking them to the people of Ulaid. Éamonn’s family have long been associated with Longmist, an association he values highly, but while he finds Conchobor unsettling, he distrusts Lugh far more. The young bard views the magi with some confusion and condescension; he is unable to understand their adherence to their staid way of life, and scornful of their dismissal of music in their tower. Still, he has great affection for the remaining villagers who serve Longmist, and he is happy to continue his association while they remain. In addition, he enjoys the influence he has over his friend Eochaid.''

==Teachers==

''There are two covenfolk particularly useful as teachers or trainers. These are the monk Columb Brathair and the blacksmith Cathal Gobha. They cost 183 Build Points between them.''
''Columb Brathair, The Penitent Monk''
''A fallen priest, Columb’s diabolic excesses were finally discovered by Calvacius and Tadhg an Tuir of Longmist. He threw himself on their mercy and, for reasons that remain unclear, the magi stayed their hand and brought him back to the covenant where he now acts as priest and confessor. He is 70 years old, though he appears 65, with the protection of a Longevity Ritual with a –4 bonus. He has Communication of +1, Teaching (Infernal Lore) of 6, and both Infernal and Dominion Lore of 8. He costs 15 Build Points. The library contains a Laboratory Text for his Longevity Ritual. As described below, a further 108 Build Points were spent to outfit his chapel.''
''Cathal Gobha, the Blacksmith''
''Cathal is 40 years old and has been under the protection of a Longevity Ritual for the last five years. Warping has made him Offensive to Animals, so he tends to leave''

[|

==Mícheál Amhreaidh==

''Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre –1, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +3, Dex –1, Qik –2 Size: 0 Age: 34 (34) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 2 (9) Confidence: 2 (5) Virtues and Flaws: The Gift; Hermetic Magus; Mercurian Magic; Mystical Choreography*, Puissant Artes Liberales, Puissant Philosophiae, Mastered Spells, Self-Confident**; Blatant Gift Pagan; Deleterious Circumstances (When not casting from within a circle) * Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 56 ** House Virtue Personality Traits: Calculating +3, Hatred for Bjornaer Magi +2, Taciturn +2, Honest +1 Reputations: Adherent of tradition 3 (elders of Longmist), Pagan 1 (magi of Hibernia) Combat: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense +0, Damage n/a Knife: Init –2, Attack +2, Defense +0, Damage +2 Fist: Init –2, Attack +2, Defense +1, Damage +0 Soak: +3 (casting his Doublet of Impenetrable Silk spell on his robe provides a further +3) Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+)''
''Abilities: Artes Liberales 3+2 (Ritual magic), Athletics 2 (running), Awareness 2 (determining effect), Brawl 2 (fist), Code of Hermes 2 (wizards’ marches), Concentration 3 (spell concentration), Finesse 3 (precision), Infernal Lore 2 (demons), Gaelic 5 (prose), Latin 4 (Hermetic usage), Leadership 2 (magi), Magic Lore 3 (magical traditions), Magic Theory 5 (Vim), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 2 (history), Parma Magica 2 (Vim), Penetration 3 (Vim), Philosophiae 3+2 (ceremonial magic) Arts: Cr 6, In 4, Mu 4, Pe 5, Re 6, An 4, Aq 0, Au 1, Co 5, He 0, Ig 1, Im 0, Me 4, Te 0, Vi 8 Equipment: Satchel of prepared casting props*** ***	 These are prepared props suitable for each of the spells he currently knows, and include candles, herbs, auspiciouslyshaped stones, and transcripts from the Vita Magnae. These count as medium props and give a +3 bonus to spells cast ceremonially. Given their size, Mícheál can carry props for three spells in his satchel, and he must choose before venturing out. If he has a packhorse, which the covenant currently lacks, he can take props for each of his spells.Encumbrance: 0 (0) Appearance: Always frowning, either in disapproval or in deep thought. His thinning hair is kept short and his''
''robes, over which he wears a white tabard, are always clean and free from wrinkle or blemish. Beneath his robes, he carries the scars of many bites and gashes inflicted upon him by the Bjornaer rogues who assaulted him. Casting Sigil: The target tremors slightly through the duration of the casting, which causes it to shed a light mist, like shaking stonework sheds dust. Voting Sigil: A small disk of gold with the impression of a crown punched into it. Spells Known: Doublet of Impenetrable Silk (MuAn 15) +12, Mastery 1 (ceremonial casting) Bind Wound (CrCo 10) +15, Mastery 1 (ceremonial casting) The Chirurgeon’s Healing Touch (CrCo 20) +26, Mastery 1 (stalwart casting) Disguise of the New Visage (MuCo 15) +13, Mastery 1 (ceremonial casting) The Wound that Weeps (PeCo 15) +13 Sight of the Transparent Motive (InMe 10) +11 The Unseen Porter (ReTe 10) +10, Mastery 1 (multiple casting) Wizard’s Communion (MuVi 30) +15 Demon’s Eternal Oblivion (PeVi 15) +17, Mastery 1 (penetration) Circular Ward Against Demons (ReVi 20) +19, Mastery 2 (ceremonial casting, penetration) Watching Ward (ReVi 30) +29, Mastery 1 (stalwart casting)''

|]
''any farrier work to his son for fear of spooking the horses. Unfortunately, consistent with the sense of lethargy across the covenant, Cathal’s forge is rarely active. He has Communication of 1, Teaching (Blacksmith) of 6, and a Craft: Blacksmith of 8. He costs 15 Build Points. The library contains a Laboratory Text for his Longevity Ritual. His workshop costs 45 Build Points as it has been enhanced to provide an Innovation Score of +3 and a Raw Materials Score of +2, both of which are added to the craftsman’s Workshop Total as described in City & Guild, page 65. This allows him to create Superior quality goods. His son (Cináed mac Cathail) is his only apprentice. See below for more details on Cináed.''

==Specialists==

''Although they are not suitable as teachers, the covenant nonetheless has a number of significant specialists costing 103 Build Points.''
''Úna, the Herbwife''
''Úna is the covenant’s wise woman, knowledgeable about ailments and the herbs that cure them. She is 40 years old and has refused magical intervention in her aging, considering that her own knowledge of herbal compounds is sufficient to maintain her health and well-being. With an Intelligence of +1 and a Profession: Herbalist score of 7, she costs 7 Build Points. She also has a Chirurgy score of 5 and is frequently''

[|

==Partholon’s Crown==

''The crown is a circlet of silver and has the following gemstones embedded into it:''
''Diamond; Ruby; Sapphire; Topaz''
''It has been disenchanted and is now ready to be opened for enchantment, but this requires a minimum of 20 pawns of vis and a Magic Theory score of 10. After passing through the possession of generations of magi, there are a number of laboratory texts that describe effects that can be enchanted into the crown, but these must be added before the device is attuned as a talisman if Mícheál is to take advantage of them. Alternatively, Mícheál could break with tradition and create his own talisman, although such a course of action would be met with disapproval by the elder magi.''
''Effect    Level     Details Aura of Rightful Authority  ReM20     ArM5, page 151 Strings of the Unwilling Marionette ReCo 25    ArM5, page 135 Calm the Motion of the Heart  PeMe15    ArM5, page 150 Sense the Lingering Magic  InVi30     ArM5, page 158 Piercing the Faerie Veil   InVi20     ArM5, page 158 Haunt of the Living Ghost  CrIm35    ArM5, page 144''

==Bran in Gai Móir==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +2, Qik +2 Size: +1 Age: 34 (34) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Knight; Faeborchless*; Large, Reserves of Strength, Warrior; Difficult Underlings; Covenant Upbringing, Prohibition (Must not suffer a dog in his house) * Described below Personality Traits: Daring +3, Conflicted Loyalties +2, Boastful +1 Combat: Dodge: Init –1, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Fist: Init –1, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +1 Dagger: Init –1, Attack +8, Defense +6, Damage +4 Sparra & Round Shield: Init +0, Attack +12, Defense +10, Damage +7 Long Spear (mounted): Init +1, Attack +14, Defense +10, Damage +6 Long Spear: Init +2, Attack +9, Defense +7, Damage +8 Soak: +9 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–6), –3 (7–12), –5 (13–18), Incapacitated (19–24), Dead (25+) Abilities: Area Lore: Ulaid 4 (geography), Athletics 3 (running), Brawl 4 (fist), Carouse 2 (games of chance), Chirurgy 3 (setting bones), Etiquette 2 (faeries), Great Weapon 3 (long spear), Hunt 3 (tracking), Gaelic 5 (slang), Leadership 5 (in combat), Organiza''
''tion Lore: Covenant of Longmist 3 (politics), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 2 (history), Ride 5 (battle), Single Weapon 5 (sparra), Survival 1 (peat bogs), Swim 1 (diving) Equipment: Round shield, full chain mail**, horse Encumbrance: 4 (4) Appearance: Bran is a tall man, longlimbed and standing a head taller than most of the grogs he leads.''
''** His arms and armor have been handed down from prior generations and have been altered to fit him. If using the rules for damaged goods from City & Guild, the armor has just one Damage Level left. He wants new equipment for himself and his men. Use the prices listed in City & Guild, page 144 to help decide how the magi treat his requests.''
''Faeborchless, or the Dancing Shield Feat''
''Faeborchless is a Cles learned from Úathach, a faerie resident at the Hibernian covenant of Leth Cuinn. This gives Bran the power to throw his shield or weapon in such a way that he can defend a number of characters equal to his Single or Great Weapon Ability, as appropriate. He must make a Dexterity + Single/ Great Weapon feat check against an Ease Factor of 9. If successful, the characters are defended and his shield or weapons return to his hands. If the roll fails, he must retrieve his weapons, which could potentially leave him defenseless.''

|]
''called upon by the villagers to tend minor knocks and scrapes. Although married to the farmer Cormac, she has been cuckolding him with Fearghal (see below) for some years. This affair is not widely known.''
''Íomhar, the Librarian''
''Íomhar has just turned 36 and with the passing of old Thomas he is now the covenant’s librarian. He has an Intelligence of 0 and a Profession: Librarian of 7, and he costs 7 Build Points. While far from stupid, Íomhar is frustrated that he lacks the academic rigor of his predecessors in his role. If there were some way in which he could''
''improve himself he would grasp the opportunity with both hands.''
''Maghnus, the Scribe''
''Although a capable scribe, the 39-year old Maghnus is slovenly by nature and this is evident in his own appearance and that of his workshop. He is particularly skillful with languages, however, and is able to read, write, and speak Latin, Greek, Gaelic, French, and German with similar fluency. With a Dexterity of +1 and a Profession: Scribe of 7, he costs 7 Build Points.''
''Piaras, The Percamenarius''
''Piaras is a morose man and has little desire for company. However, the vellum he produces is of the highest quality and other covenants have sometimes called upon his services. Piaras has written four instructional manuals for use in the preparation of certain types of vellum; one each for the skins of cows, sheep, goats, and a further text for the treatment of the skins of magical beasts. As per City & Guild, page 73, each of these adds +3 to the Craft Totals of other makers of parchment (Piaras cannot benefit from his own writing). Written in the vernacular, this collection costs 12 Build Points. Aged 56, though appearing 50, he enjoys a –4 aging bonus granted by his Longevity Ritual. He has a Dexterity of +3 and a Craft: Parchment (uterine vellum) of 9. As a specialist, he costs 9 Build Points, and these are added to 45 Build Points for his workshop, which he has enhanced with both a +2 Innovation Score and +3 Raw Materials. The library contains a Laboratory Text for his Longevity Ritual. His skin has become Disfigured by warping. It has the appearance of thin and white parchment, and the pulsing of his veins and the rushing of his blood can be seen beneath. This probably accounts for how withdrawn he has been in recent years. His equally morose, but increasingly jealous and impatient, assistant Maol Phóil has a Craft: Parchment score of 5, which costs 5 Build Points.''
''Cináed mac Cathail, Apprentice Blacksmith''
''Destined to take over from his father in the covenant’s forge when the time comes, Cináed has no interest in becoming a blacksmith. He would much rather become a grog and defend Longmist from its enemies. In particular, he has no love for the English and hopes Longmist will one day side against them. He has a Dexterity of +3, a score of 4 in Craft: Blacksmith, and costs 4 Build Points.''
''Fearghal, the Animal Handler''
''Longmist once maintained notable kennels and stables and, in the days when the covenant would host kings and princes in the hunt, there was a dedicated team of animal handlers. Fearghal is the last of these and he has little to do with his time except''

[|

==Longmist Grog==

''Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 25 (25) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (4) Virtues and Flaws: Covenfolk; Warrior, Tough; Poor Living Conditions*, Weakness (Drinking) * New Flaw first presented in the Grogs supplement. Personality Traits: Brave +3, Lazy +2, Loyal +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +4, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +6, Defense +5, Damage +2 Kick: Init –1, Attack +5, Defense +3, Damage +5 Knife: Init +0, Attack +6, Defense +4, Damage +4 Sparra & Round Shield: Init: +0, Attack +11, Defense +8, Damage +8 Short Spear & Round Shield: Init +1, Attack +8, Defense +7, Damage +7 Throwing Ax: Init +0, Attack +8, Defense +5, Damage +8 Soak: +8 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11– 15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Longmist lands 3 (geography), Athletics 3 (climbing), Awareness 3 (keeping watch), Brawl 4 (fist), Carouse 4 (power drinking), Chirurgy 1 (binding wounds), Gaelic 5 (storytelling), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 2 (personalities), Single Weapon 5 (sparra), Stealth 2 (natural areas), Survival 2 (woodland), Swim 3 (diving), Thrown Weapon 4 (throwing ax) Equipment: partial leather scale armor**;''
''round shield, sparra, short spear, two throwing axes, eating knife, warm cloak, and light camping gear. **	 As with their captain, their armor has one Damage Level remaining after being patched up as best can be. Encumbrance: 1 (3) Appearance: Dirty, with thick woolen clothing against the cold mists of the valley. Their oiled leather shoes still let in the damp, so they are often to be seen wrapped in their cloaks drying their shoes by the fireside. They look more rough than imposing; brigands rather than toll collectors. The Longmist grogs lack leadership capability in themselves, which means that while they have trained together, they fight as an untrained group unless their captain is there to lead them. They are loyal to the covenant, more through habit than desire, but they are also lazy, and while they may often complain about how much work they are told to do, they are rarely pushed.''
''New Flaw: Poor Living Conditions''
''Minor, General Either because of this character’s own poor living conditions or those of people he is in frequent contact with, he is more susceptible to the rigors of daily life. The character has an additional –1 Living Conditions Modifier. This is cumulative with the character’s base Living Conditions Modifier as per ArM5, page 170. In the case of the Longmist grogs, their poor living conditions arises from days spent away from the covenant, living off the land and exposed to the elements.''

|]
''tend to the rare visiting horse, advise farmers on the ailments of their livestock, and look after the covenant’s bees. Aged 36, he frequently commits adultery with Úna the Herbalist. With no wife of his own and seemingly no prospect of one, it is a sin for which he is willing to forgive himself. He has a Dexterity of +2, an Animal Handling score of 7, and costs 7 Build Points.''

==Servants==

''There are twelve servants in all and none live within the tower in the regio, instead living in the small village surrounding the old tower in the mundane world. There are eight women and four men. The women tend to the chores around the tower and work the kitchens, while the men are little more than laborers, usually working under the direction of the specialists described above. The covenant also employs four laborers and four teamsters who are responsible for general lifting, carrying, and other chores, and securing provisions for the covenant.''

==Grogs==

''The covenant has a small turb of six grogs, captained by Bran in Gai Móir. For the most part, the grogs spend their days on the toll-bridge that forms an important part of the covenant’s income, escorting supply runs to market, and occasionally standing guard at the covenant itself. There is rarely any bother on the mundane front, but they are called upon now and then to dissuade hungry giants who wander into Longmist’s shrouded valley. At the start of 1220, the grogs fight as a trained group (ArM5, page 173) and their preferred weapons are spear and sparra.''

==Covenant Organization==

''The magi live apart from their covenfolk in a tall tower hidden in a regio. For their part, the covenfolk retire to their small village each night and leave the magi to their strange business.''

==Hierarchy and Governance==

''While age itself does not grant additional power at council, magi who have trained an apprentice are treated as elders and are afforded more respect than those who have not. A council may be called at any time, and for a council to be quorate all magi currently in residence must attend or face censure. Exceptions may be granted where a proxy has been appointed, or a magus is in Twilight, for instance. Decisions at council are only binding where that session is quorate. Each magus has one vote at council, which may be used on each matter brought before it. Crucially, in return for their assistance throughout the life of the covenant, the Túatha Dé Danann have a seat and vote at council, although they do not count for the quorum however much Conchobor might argue in their favor. Because all magi must attend for the council to be quorate, and only a quorate council can censure an absent magus, a magus could paralyze the council by refusing to come out of his laboratory. In addition, the charter provides for the following roles: Princeps: This role is vacant, having been held by Tadhg an Tuir of Verditius before his loss. Castellanus: This vacant role concerns the mundane and magical security of the covenant within the Aegis of the Hearth. Cancellarius: Responsible for the financial and magical well-being of the covenant. This includes accounting for vis and its expenditure on things such as Longevity Rituals. This role has been vacant for many years. Praefectus: This role is currently held by Conchobor and concerns the mundane and magical security of the covenant’s lands and property beyond the Aegis of the Hearth, which includes the cathach. Aedilis: Responsible for planning the covenant’s magical works. This role has been vacant for many years. Censor: Responsible for leading magical rituals and ceremonies and charged with maintaining the moral standards of the magi in the execution of their duties. Currently held by Mícheál. Propraetor: Responsible for maintaining relations with outside covenants, nobles, the Church, and so on. This role is cur''

[|

==Éamonn Cruittire==

''Characteristics: Int +1, Per 0, Pre +2, Com +3, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex 0, Qik 0 Size: 0 Age: 27 (27) Decrepitude: 0 Warping Score: 0 (4) Confidence: 1 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Bard*;  Bardic Education**, Enchanting Storytelling***, Free Expression, Sidhe Blood; Dependent****; Carefree Personality Traits: Confident +3, Friendly +2, Extroverted +1 Combat: Dodge: Init +0, Attack n/a, Defense +2, Damage n/a Fist: Init +0, Attack +3, Defense +3, Damage –1 Knife: Init +0, Attack +3, Defense +2, Damage +1 Bludgeon: Init –1, Attack +4, Defense +2, Damage +1 Soak: 0 Fatigue Levels: OK, 0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Abilities: Area Lore: Ulaid 3 (personalities), Art of Memory 3 (poetry), Awareness 3 (alertness), Brawl 2 (fist), Carouse 2 (drinking songs), Charm 4 (first impressions), Enchanting Storytelling 5 (love), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), Gaelic 5 (storytelling), Legerdemain 4 (“magic” tricks), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 1 (personalities), Organization Lore: Uí hEódhasa 1 (history), Poet 2 (The Ulaidh Cycle), Storyteller 5 (heroic battles), Survival 1 (roadside) Equipment: Good quality clothes Encumbrance: 1 (1) Appearance: Éamonn is a handsome young man who clearly carries the refinement of the Sidhe in his blood. With his sparkling blue eyes, bouncy blond hair, and easy smile, he is every father’s nightmare and every husband’s fear. * 	 The Contested Isle: The Hibernian Tribunal, page 117 ** 	 The Contested Isle: The Hibernian Tribunal, page 116 *** The Contested Isle: The Hibernian Tribunal, page 116. Functionally identical to Enchanting Music, but using stories instead of music. **** His mother has depended on Éamonn for money since an illness left her weak some years ago, so without Éamonn she may lose her home.''

|]
''rently held by Lugh. Magi holding one of these roles gains an additional vote at council upon matters pertaining to their responsibilities. A quorate council must be convened to elect a magus to one of these roles. The candidate(s) may not themselves vote, and the matter is treated as falling within the responsibility of each of the roles described above, allowing holders to cast a second vote.''

==Life at Longmist==

''The magi of Longmist live an almost ascetic life governed by set events in the day, agreed forms of study, manner of dress, and a uniformity of magical style to such an extent that even their casting sigils become aligned. None have challenged this way of life for many years.''
''Consensus and Community''
''All Longmist magi share certain qualities, certain common and agreed ways of doing things for which magi in other covenants might incline toward allowing or encouraging personal choice. The magi of Longmist adhere to these things through a sense of community, accepting that for all their differences their traditions hold them together and make them strong. Parma Magica: While the invocation of the Parma Magica is the same as for every other magus trained in the Order, each Longmist apprentice learns an almost reverential ritual of words and actions recited before invoking the Parma Magica. This involves two fingers on each hand being touched to brow, eyes, ears, nose, and lips in sequence while the magus recites a list of notable magi from Longmist’s past along with attributions of their particular strengths. The ritual is performed standing, with eyes closed and head bowed, and with the utterances respectfully quiet. The ritual seems to have no effect upon the Parma Magica or its invocation. The additional ritualistic elements take 30 seconds to perform. Voting Sigils: Longmist magi have their voting sigils made by the covenant’s blacksmith. This means that they are always metal, although the individual apprentice has some discretion as to the type, and their quality is dependent upon the mastery of the particular smith involved. Magical Sigils: While each magus’ magic manifests differently, those who have their''
''Gift opened at Longmist share a common element to their casting sigils: light mist accompanies each spell or effect, and this dissipates in line with the normal fading of magical residues. For different magi the mist may associate with the caster, the target, or may be a visual manifestation of the spell itself. Sanctum Markers: Each magus has their own sanctum, which of course includes his laboratories. The elder magi, however, must be added to the sanctum markers of the younger magi. Refusal to do so is a sign of dangerous non-conformity and the younger magus opens himself to censure. Laboratory Texts: All of Longmist’s magi use the same code and script for their laboratory texts.''
''The Offices of Longmist''
''The passage of each day is marked by the tolling of a cracked and tuneless bell housed in the small tower adjacent to the main tower of Longmist. This bell tells the magi when to rise, when to sleep, when to study, and when to congregate for their communal meals. Congregations in the hall, including meal times, are usually accompanied by a reading from books upon Magic Theory, the Arts, other Arcane knowledge, or the Vitae Magnae. This last, the Vitae Magnae, is a peculiarly Hibernian practice. These are books that describe their subject through chronicling the lives of famous magi. Most often, these are books on Area Lore: Hibernia, Code of Hermes, or Organization Lore: Order of Hermes, but other topics, including the Arts and Arcane Abilities are often found. All magi of Longmist, no matter what their rank or status, follow the same schedule. They consider this discipline to have seen the covenant through its long history and they view the ways of outsiders as lacking in moral fortitude. Visiting magi are advised of the schedule and expected to observe its times, especially meal times and the renewal of Parma Magica at dawn and dusk. Magi with a pious bent must fit their religious observances into their day as best they can. Magi brought up at Longmist are accustomed to the frequent interruptions throughout their days and they suffer no distraction as a result. Visitors undertaking study at the covenant treat this as a four-day distraction across the season, reducing by one for each season spent at the covenant.''
''Manner of Dress''
''Magi are required to dress respectfully at all times. In practice, this means wearing a simple woolen robe, belted at the middle, and a hood, worn down during study and at mealtimes, and up at all other times. Charms, rings, and other amulets as befits a magus are permitted. Ornamentation is not. Arms and armor, unless they form a talisman, are not permitted, as such things are for covenfolk, companions, and other grogs. Magi must wear their hair short and shaved at the back and sides. Women, as appropriate for their sex, are exempt from this, but must ensure that their hair is covered when in public.''
''Music at the Covenant''
''No music or singing is permitted within the tower of Longmist, as such things are for grogs and servants. This rule has been in force for over a century and while some may assume this to be a simple measure of austerity, keen-eyed apprentices may find a story about a faerie princess who once entranced the whole covenant through the loveliness of her voice. Music can sometimes be heard in the tower, however, as it drifts in from the small village at the tower’s base.''
''Meal Times''
''Magi and those of standing eat together in the hall. It is the rule of the covenant that all magi, when resident at Longmist, take their meals together. The bell is tolled and the magi must attend. Refusal or failure to do so may be punished. Meals are taken in silence, for these times are for nourishment and not for council, with the exception of a reading from a text upon the matter of magic, the Order, or the realms, given by one of the magi. The reading is usually in Latin, although this is dependent upon the text. This duty falls in strict rotation, and magi of all rank and status are included and must obey the rule. Three meals are served: midmorning, two hours before dusk, and three hours after dusk. Food between these mealtimes is not permitted.''
''Dawn and Dusk''
''As both dawn and dusk approach, the bell is rung as a signal for the magi to each attend to their Parma Magica. Each magus conducts the ritual, typically removing themselves to somewhere private when mundane or supernatural visitors are present.''
''Working Schedules and Experimentation''
''Magi are expected to improve their Arts and learn new spells, but this is to be done within strict hours, and a magus shall not work beyond these times without consent from the council. In game terms, where the magus would like to make use of a nonstandard laboratory routine, as described in Covenants, page 107, the magus must first approach the council and explain his need. Similarly, experimentation is frowned upon at Longmist for its dangers and the propensity to lead to lax and lazy habits. A magus must bring all requests to experiment before the council. Of course, this is the rule. However, magi may choose either to conduct themselves other than in accordance with the rule, or even go against the covenant’s explicit instructions. In theory, it is for the covenant Censor, currently Michael, to monitor the behavior of the magi.''
''Punishment''
''Magi are expected to obey. Where a magus falls short of the covenant’s moral and behavioral standards they are punished. Such punishments include:''
''• Private admonishing • The withholding of a meal • Exclusion from a common gathering • The suspension of all communication with the magus • Ten days of duty to the covenant''
''The covenant records indicate that public certamen has been used as a punishment at Longmist in the past, with a senior magus engaging the wayward magus. It is believed that in such cases the covenant appointed vis to the senior magus to be used in the punishment. No records exist of the wayward magus having won such a contest so the precedent is unclear, but it would appear that either outcome is considered equally binding.''
''Visitors and Aegis Tokens''
''Apart from any presented by the magi themselves, twenty-eight tokens, in the form of simple iron medallions engraved with a wolf’s head, are included in the Aegis of the Hearth ritual each year. These same tokens''
''have been used for generations and have passed through the hands of countless magi. There were more, but some have been lost and the old covenant stories suggest that others were stolen, along with several books, by visitors from Normandy many years ago. Magi and other visitors are each given a casting token for use during their visit when the covenant rises and performs the Parma Magica and they retain it until the covenant repeats the Parma Magica at dusk, at which point it must be returned to the covenant. This means that  a visitor has no token during the night and must suffer the full weight of the covenant’s Aegis during this time. It is important to note that supernatural visitors are granted tokens too, as are mundane visitors, and there is a strict hierarchy as to who receives a token in the unlikely event of there being more visitors than tokens. This hierarchy is as follows:''
''• A Magus of the Order • A Familiar of the Order • A Beast of Ireland • A Mundane Lord • A Hedge Wizard or Druid • An Apprentice • A Mortal Man of Ireland • A Foreigner''
''The tokens are kept in a small wooden box in the main hall for easy access should they be needed.''

==Covenant Site==

''Typical of many covenants, Longmist has a central building as its focus and a small village housing the covenfolk nearby. But it also has a regio at the heart of the covenant that hides the main tower from the mortal world around it.''

==Environment==

''Longmist was built in a mist-shrouded valley between Lough Beagh and the smaller Lough Inshagh in Donegal in the province of Ulaid in Hibernia. The weather-ravaged hillsides surrounding the covenant support few trees, but there is some woodland by the shores of the nearby lakes. Winters are generally mild but wet, and summers pleasantly warm, though midges and other biting''

[|

==The Offices of Longmist==

''All magi of Longmist, no matter their rank or status, follow the same schedule. They consider this discipline to have seen the covenant through its three centuries and they view the ways of outsiders as lacking moral fortitude. Visiting magi are advised of the schedule and expected to observe it. Magi with a religious bent must fit their Christian observances into their day as best they can. Some of the times shown below are dependent on dawn and dusk.''
''02:00  Rise 02:15  A reading from the Vitae Magnae, followed by a nap 05:00  Breakfast, accompanied by a reading. Aegis tokens    are returned to visitors Dawn  Perform the Parma Magica 07:00  Study, laboratory work, or undertakings on behalf of    the covenant 15:00  Dinner, accompanied by a reading Dusk  Perform the Parma 	 Magica. Aegis tokens are collected    from visitors 19:00  Supper, accompanied by a reading 20:00  Retirement''
''Each event through the day is announced by the tolling of a once-magical bell, now rung by one of the covenfolk. Should magi undertake a rare excursion beyond Longmist, they attempt to abide by the offices unless doing so is likely to cause problems either for them, their hosts, or their companions. Accompanying grogs are so well versed in the offices that they help their masters by keeping track as best they can.''

|]
''insects are an annoyance. Longmist’s valley is typically obscured by a low-lying unnatural mist. In its early days, the covenant developed devices and spells to clear the mist, or to control it at will, allowing visitors a clear path. These have now either been lost or broken, and in any case the magi currently have no intention of making things easier for visitors. Buying supplies from nearby villages typically takes a long day’s round trip. The valley has a Magic aura of 2 and this rises to 5 at the covenant site. A level 6 regio sits over the central part of the covenant.''
''Main Structures''
''The main structure is a set of two intersecting oval courtyards with a four-story tower at their center. The outer walls were once plastered and whitewashed but these are now cracked, dirty, and flaking. The larger of the two courtyards has two large gates of iron latticework that once made for an impressive entrance. These have long been rusted shut and the two magical statues of warrior women that once hauled the gates open and shut have seized with them. The paved yard has a large fountain at its center, though the device that created the water has also failed. Alongside the fountain is a bronze man. Larger than a natural man and understood to represent the Fir Bolg in their glory days, this apparent statue is dressed as a blacksmith and he stands looking out to the gates. Some say he has a wistful look upon his face. The courtyard is overgrown and the paving stones have risen, uneven with the roots and small plants that grow up between them. It is no longer the grand entrance and all manner of broken carts, barrels, crates, and sacks find themselves stored here under the numerous wooden sheds and shelters built against the walls. A smaller courtyard at the rear of the tower, enclosed by a smaller wall, is now the functional entrance to the covenant. It was once used only by the covenant staff but since the failure of the magical gates, all visitors to the covenant must come through the humble wooden gates to this courtyard, which is littered with water troughs, chicken runs, and other signs of a working covenant. This is also where the stables and both Piaras and Cathal have their workshops. These courtyards have plenty of space should the magi wish to build additional structures within the walls.''
''The Lesser Tower''
''The smaller white stone tower is that which is visible in the mortal world. It has four levels above ground and a further level of cellars below. The front entrance is to the second level, up a set of steps from the grand courtyard. The rear entrance is to the first level through the kitchens. This tower once provided laboratories for the early inhabitants, but it is now used by the covenfolk as workspace and as a guardhouse by the grogs. An enchanted door connects this tower to its larger counterpart hidden in the regio. A bell is mounted in a small wooden bell tower on top of the stone structure.''
''The Greater Tower''
''Hidden within the level 6 regio, the heart of the covenant is a thirteen-story tower that extends both upwards and down into a series of cellars. The two elder magi live at opposite ends of the tower, one in the perpetual darkness and the other in the sky. The other magi each occupy a level, with several left empty, given the loss of magi. A large hall occupies one level and the library the level above that. Magi looking out of their laboratories see the valley extending away below them. Every level of the tower appears to rise above the mists allowing occasional glimpses of the mundane covenant below, and the sounds of the mundane level can sometimes be heard. The tower, however, is almost always invisible and inaudible from the mundane level. The strength of this regio dropped to 6 nearly thirty years ago, something that some attributed to the strengthening ties to the Túatha Dé Danann, others to the arrival of the Cailleach, and others to unsanctioned magical experiments.''

==Laboratories==

''Each magus has his own laboratory, and these are detailed below. There are also three extra laboratories once owned by former members of Longmist. A total of 360 Build Points have been spent on laboratories and their upkeep costs 44 ½ Mythic Pounds per year.''
''Lugh-éccnaid’s Laboratory''
''Lugh-éccnaid’s laboratory occupies the upper-most levels of the hidden tower of Longmist, having been expanded in the past so that it spans two floors. Much of the work is done on the lower level where a great cauldron has been installed, but the gallery formed from the upper level provides areas for contemplation, writing, and space for Lugh’s personal library and stores. This laboratory is highly specialized toward the development of Longevity Rituals. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: None Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +5, General Quality +3, Upkeep +8 (36 Mythic Pounds per year), Safety +8, Warping +0, Health +1, Aesthetics +7 Virtues & Flaws: Greater Feature (Cauldron), Highly Organized, Priceless Ingredients, Spotless, Spacious, Gallery, Elevated, Greater Expansion; Greater Focus (Cauldron) Specializations: Longevity Rituals +11, Teaching +1; Creo +1; Auram +1 Features: Cauldron These enhancements cost 60 Build Points.''
''Conchobor’s Laboratory''
''Deep beneath the covenant, seemingly more accessible to the Túatha Dé Danann and the creeping faeries of the earth than the covenfolk, Conchobor’s laboratory is a cold and dark place. The main chamber is spacious and is a thing of rocky steps and''

[|

==The Warrior Women==

''The main covenant gates, though now seized shut, were once opened and closed on command by two magical bronzes each in the form of a heroic warrior woman. They are larger than a man and of an athletic build. Their hair is long and plaited, and appears to be banded by a circlet of bronze. Each wears a coat of plates and has a small sparra hanging from her belt. They are posed as though heaving upon chains that run through their hands to pull open the gates. Following the bronze man’s gaze from where he stands in the courtyard, it is clear that he is looking toward one of the two warrior women rather than at the gates themselves. What story, now unmoving, has been captured in the courtyard? Can the Cailleach free the blacksmith and see it finally play out?''

|]
''platforms surrounding a slowly-rotating orb of granite magically suspended over a pool of still and clear water. Conchobor makes no claims as to the orb’s power, but those who have seen it have glimpsed the world beyond Longmist reflected in its polished surface. While the laboratory is within the Aegis of the Hearth, there is a gateway to the otherworld of the Túatha Dé Danann nearby, a magical path that allows pixies, brownies, and others of the fair folk to penetrate the laboratory. Most are content to watch and listen, but some provide occasional assistance, whether requested or not. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: None Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +6, General Quality +1, Upkeep +0 (1 Mythic Pound per year), Safety +4, Warping +2, Health –1, Aesthetics +3 Virtues & Flaws: Spacious, Faerie Ingredients, Greater Feature (Orb), Lesser Feature (Pool); Gateway, Subterranean, Gremlins Specializations: Experimentation +2, Binding Familiar +1; Intellego +4, Rego +1; Terram +2 These enhancements cost 50 Build Points.''
''The Cailleach’s Laboratory''
''A forge dominates the Cailleach’s laboratory and the external walls have are punctured by iron hollows and chimneys through which air is pulled and smoke expelled. The sound of the bellows reverberates as the fires reach magically high temperatures: perfect for forging and welding raw magic to devices. Her superior tools are made and maintained by Cathal Gobha and so do not increase the Upkeep cost of this laboratory. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: Conchobor Crosach, Lugh-éccnaid Characteristics: Size +0 (–2), Refinement +2, General Quality –1, Upkeep +0 (1 Mythic Pound per year), Safety +3, Warping +0, Health +0, Aesthetics +2 Virtues & Flaws: Greater Feature (Forge), Highly Organized, Superior Tools; Greater Focus (Forge) Specializations: Enchanting Items +8 These enhancements cost 20 Build Points.''
''Dara’s Laboratory''
''This laboratory is dominated by the summoning circle built into a raised circular dais in the center of the chamber. The laboratory equipment lines the walls and Dara has made efficient use of his space. However, the laboratory, or something''
''in it, appears to be haunted. Dara has not seen anything, and his magic has not yet detected a rogue presence, but he is certain that his equipment and notes are interfered with while his back is turned. Given his Dark Secret, Dara is particularly fearful of what the presence may in fact be. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: Conchobor Crosach, Lugh-éccnaid Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +0, General Quality –2, Upkeep +0 (1 Mythic Pound per year), Safety +0, Warping +1 Health +0, Aesthetics +1 Virtues & Flaws: Greater Feature (Summoning Circle); Greater Focus (Summoning Circle), Haunted Specializations: Inventing Spells +5; Rego +2; Mentem +2 These enhancements cost 20 Build Points.''
''Eochaid’s Laboratory''
''Unlike the other laboratories and chambers within Longmist, this room is stark brilliant white. The walls have been plastered smooth and then painted with the most unnatural white that the covenant could acquire. The curved outer tower wall has a large round window that reaches almost floor to ceiling. The images visible through this window are reflected onto a series of hand-sized mirrors mounted against the inner wall, each at a slightly different angle or depth. The whole room is highly illuminated by scores of candles and Eochaid has promised to find a cheaper solution to lighting his sanctum. All the equipment must be kept away from the walls for fear of blemishing their purity, so the laboratory may seem a little awkward to some. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: Conchobor Crosach, Lugh-éccnaid Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +1, General Quality –1, Upkeep +2 (3 Mythic Pounds per year), Safety –1, Warping +0, Health +0, Aesthetics +2 Virtues & Flaws: Greater Feature (Mirror), Lesser Feature (Window), Excessive Lighting, Highly Organized; Greater Focus (Mirror), Awkward Shape Specializations: Imaginem +10 These enhancements cost 40 Build Points.''
''Mícheál’s Laboratory''
''Mícheál has spent a year enhancing his laboratory, refining it across two seasons and then creating an Auspicious Shape by turning''
''his chambers into a pentagon, and further by engraving a Summoning Circle into the floor. He has plans to extend his laboratory further to add both an Antechamber and a Balcony. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: Conchobor Crosach, Lugh-éccnaid Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +2, General Quality +1, Upkeep +0 (1 Mythic Pound per year), Safety +2, Warping +0, Health +0, Aesthetics +2 Virtues & Flaws: Auspicious Shape, Highly Organized, Lesser Feature (Summoning Circle) Specializations: Inventing Spells +1; Vim +1 These enhancements cost 20 Build Points.''
''The Remaining Laboratories''
''There are three other laboratories that are currently unoccupied. Much of the valuable equipment has been reused elsewhere, and what has been left is decaying. They each have the following statistics. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: No Sanctum Marker Characteristics: Size +0 (–1), Refinement +0, General Quality –1, Upkeep –2 (1/2 Mythic Pound per year), Safety –1, Warping +0, Health +0, Aesthetics –2 Virtues & Flaws: Missing Equipment, Decaying, Missing Sanctum Marker Specializations: +2 Perdo Impossible Activities: Enchanting Items These extra laboratories costs the covenant 150 Build Points.''

==Outlying Buildings==

''To the south of the covenant’s main buildings, en route to the rear of the covenant, is the village. This is where Columb has his chapel and the rest of the grogs live. The homes are humble, but made of the same white stone as the covenant walls. Sheep and goats dot the hills on either side of the valley alongside the covenant’s herd of hardy cattle. Lines of robust drystone walls corral the livestock, allowing the farmers to control their movements. The wolf pelt cathach is displayed on a large x-shaped frame staked into the ground. Ropes secure the frame to the ground against the winds that rush down the valley. It is surrounded by a circular ward and is watched over by Prince Ruadan’s Túatha Dé Danann warriors (see below).''
''The Chapel''
''Columb Brathair’s chapel, built and provisioned in earlier times, has a Divine aura of 4. It houses a copy of the Bible (as described in The Church, page 49), and the recentlystarted parish register. The register is a Summa on Area Lore: Longmist, Lvl 1, Quality 5. These books cost a total of 53 Build Points. 55 Build Points have also been spent to outfit his small chapel with a significant relic. The covenant acquired the clapper from the iron bell that Saint Patrick used to knock the demon Caoranach out of the sky. This relic has four Faith Points and has the power to grant the supplicant the Strong Willed Virtue for one day at a cost of five of the Relic’s 40 Divine Might points. Visitors may be surprised at this, as the clapper is reputed to be housed in the Shrine of the Bell in Armagh, and indeed such a Divine relic can be found there. That two such relics can be found is surely God’s work indeed.''

==Associated or Owned Properties==

''There are now just two sources of income remaining, a small fishery, and a toll bridge. They are treated as a Lesser Income Source providing a total of 80 Mythic Pounds each year.''
''The Fish Runs''
''This is a series of looping channels cut into the banks of the stream feeding Lough Beagh. Fish traps have been set up here and the catch provides enough for the covenant and surplus for sale at nearby Inniskill market.''
''The Toll Bridge''
''The covenant controls a toll bridge to the south of Lough Beagh. Footfall is starting to dwindle as a larger toll bridge built further south by the English provides an alternative route. If things continue, it may be just five years before this source of income stops paying for itself. Unless something is done, each year from the time that play starts, reduce the earned income by 8 Mythic Pounds.''

==External Relations==

''Longmist has few external relations and its most favorable relationships are no longer with mortal kings or Hermetic covenants, but with the faeries who live beneath the ground and the spirits of the air.''

==Clan Mac Tire==

''The nomadic Clan Mac Tire, a collection of seven Bjornaer magi, is Longmist’s enemy. The founder of their line was murdered and skinned to provide Longmist’s cathach and it is an insult that the clan’s current leader, Cú Chonnacht Cluasach Mac Tire, has vowed to put right. This unofficial covenant moves across Hibernia with the seasons, setting up their mobile laboratories in one of the many booley villages, collections of simple dwellings occupied for only a season or two before the occupants move on to the next booley. Cú Chonnacht Cluasach Mac Tire is old and weak, and the faith of the clan has been shaken by too many failures to reclaim Ualgrimm’s pelt. His junior, Bán Mac Tire, who has a white wolf heartbeast, is growing impatient. In truth, he feels no connection to the cathach held by Longmist, but it is a wound to the clan that he is keen to exploit in order to strip Cú Chonnacht of his leadership. Bán wants to stop targeting the pelt itself and to begin targeted attacks against its protectors: Prince Ruadan and his subjects. Given their itinerant lifestyle, the clan lacks the raw magical power they need, but they now control a large band of robbers and mercenaries, enough to challenge the faerie powers that guard the cathach on Longmist’s behalf. It will not be long before''

[|

==Story Seed: The Dwindling Fish==

''Few fish have been caught in the withies and those that have been are small. Where have all the fish gone? Is the covenant outstripping the land? Or perhaps the new magi upstream in search of a covenant location are stealing what belongs to Longmist. What does this mean for the vis sources?''

|]
''an assault is mounted. Achieving peace with the Clan Mac Tire will not be an easy thing. The covenant’s cathach is at the heart of the conflict, and for Longmist to give that up they must first have a new trophy under which they are known at Tribunal.''
''Important Boons and Hooks''
''Troupes are free to provide as much or as little detail for Clan Mac Tire as they need, but there are some important covenant Boons and Hooks that help describe the covenant.''
''Criminals (Minor Residents Boon): Not only do the magi raid the resources belonging to other covenants, but they offer a haven to mundane criminals and outlaws. Difficult Access (Minor Fortifications Boon): Many of the booley villages that the covenant uses are built on islands in the middle of lakes, which provides protection against intrusion. As the covenant seeks out those with Magical auras, some even host regiones, which offer even more protection. Informants (Minor External Relations Boon): The covenant maintains links with''
''various robbers across Ulaid, whose information they use to plan their own activities. Hidden Resources (Minor Resource Boon): In order to reduce the amount that the covenant needs to carry with them, some of the covenant’s resources are stored in the booleys that they frequently visit. This means that not all covenant resources are immediately available. Hidden Ways (Minor Surroundings Boon): Both as wolves of the wilderness and as magi, the clan knows the best paths surrounding their regular booley camps.''

[|

==Ruadan mac Goibhniu==

''Ruadan mac Giobniu is not designed as a player character. Faerie Might: 40 + 10 (Terram) Characteristics: Int +2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta +0, Dex +3, Qik +0 Size: 0 Confidence: 4 (3) Virtues and Flaws: Highly Cognizant; Humanoid Faerie; Faerie Sight, Faerie Speech, Lesser Power, Place of Power (the Otherworld burrows beneath Longmist), Reputation as Confidence, 2 x Ritual Power; Negative Reaction, Traditional Ward (The Dominion) Personality Traits: Regal +3, Manipulative +2, Forgiving –2 Reputations: Crafter of Arms and Armor +4, Prince of the Otherworld +3, Descendant of Goibhniu +2, Protector of Longmist +1 Combat**: Dodge: Init –2, Attack n/a, Defense +6, Damage n/a Fist: Init –2, Attack +9, Defense +6, Damage +1 Mortal Blades: Init –2, Attack +11, Defense +6, Damage +3 Knife of Sorrows: Init –2, Attack +16, Defense +7, Damage +3 Great Sword of the Moon: Init +0, Attack +20, Defense +9, Damage +10 * This is a pretense and so covers all weapons that have been faerie made or faerie touched in some way. Mortal weapons are no better than bludgeons in his hands. ** The combat scores take into account his specially-crafted faerie weapons. They require specialist training from Ruadan to use, at which point his great sword and knife provide a +5 bonus to attack. Soak: +14 Wound Penalties: –1 (1–5), –3 (6–10), –5 (11–15), Incapacitated (16–20), Dead (21+) Pretenses: Area Lore: Ulaid 6 (sites of historic significance), Artes Liberales 3 (rhetoric), Animal Handling 2 (faerie hounds), Athletics 6 (running), Awareness 2 (ambushes), Bargain 7 (magi), Brawl 6 (knife), Craft Weapons and Armor 9 (swords), Etiquette 7 (maintaining the''
''dignity of the Túatha Dé Danann), Faerie Speech 6 (poetry), Faerie Weapons* 7 (great swords), Guile 3 (men), Intrigue 4 (against magi), Leadership 6 (in warfare), Organization Lore: Covenant of Longmist 5 (history), Organization Lore: Order of Hermes 5 (conflicts), Penetration 6 (using Arcane Connections), Teaching 6 (crafting weapons and armor) Powers: Binding Oath: 10 points, Init (Qik – 20), Vim: Enforces the power of a solemnly sworn oath or contract between two or more parties. See Realms of Power: Faerie, page 56 for more details. The Blood of Goibhniu: variable points, Init (Qik – (2 x points spent)), Vim: Allows Ruadan to craft faerie arms and armor out of unusual materials. Once crafted, these can be further enchanted. See later. Grant Puissance in Craft Arms and Armor: 2 points, Init–2, Corpus: For each Might Point spent, Ruadan grants a +3 bonus to a single individual against all totals associated with crafting weapons and armor. The points spent are only regenerated when the bonus is withdrawn from the individual. The power must Penetrate at the time the bonus is bestowed. Equipment: Armor forged from tempered night (Prot +14), a long slender sword of purest moonlight, and a dagger poisoned with loss. Vis: 8 pawns Rego, +2 if in the Otherworld Appearance: A tall and handsome man apparently in his early thirties, attractive were it not for his bright blue skin and red eyes. His blond hair is lustrous, and his oilblack armor fascinates in the torchlight.''
''His Might is increased by 10 when he is within his place of power; the labyrinth beneath Longmist. This is also where he maintains his workshop, which provides a +2 bonus to totals to create new arms and armor due to the exotic supplies and magical fires within its forge. This allows him to make Superior weapons and armor, with the exception of swords which are Excellent, as described in City & Guild, page 69.''
''While the quality of weapons and armor made by Ruadan is determined by the appropriate Pretense, his Blood of Goibhniu power allows him forge unusual substances. These could include moonlight, song, loss, anger, or the power of a storm. He may do this by expending 1 point from his Might Score, plus up to a further 9 points from his Might Score to enchant up to 45 levels of effect. This must be a single effect, and all the usual modifiers apply. Points spent in this way can only be regained by consuming faerie vis associated with the form of Vim, or by taking back the weapon and smelting it down.''
''Great Sword of the Moon''
''MuCo 45 Pen +20, Unlimited R: Sight, D: Concentration, T: Group When the sword is drawn, members of the target group who consider themselves Ruadan’s allies see the sword of the moon glow brightly with pure moonlight. When in its presence, they can see in absolute darkness as though it were a clear night with a full moon. (Effect: Base 2, +3 Sight, +2 Group, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use, +10 for +20 Penetration)''
''The Knife of Sorrows''
''CrMe 45 Pen +50, 1/day R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Individual Poisons the target’s mind with inconsolable loss that lasts for a Moon. The effects are debilitating, requiring a Personality Roll against Ease Factor 9 to hold the thoughts back for a day. Failure imposes a –3 penalty on all totals. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon; Modifications: +25 for +50 Penetration)''

|]
''This allows them to travel quickly and to gain an advantage over those traveling through their lands. Indiscreet Resource (Major Resource Hook): Most of the Clan’s income comes from theft, robbery, and coercion. Erratically Mobile (Minor Site Hook): The Clan moves frequently, sometimes staying just a season in each booley. Infamous (Minor External Relations Hook): The Clan Mac Tire is well-known by other covenants across Hibernia.''
''Income''
''The Clan makes what money it needs primarily from robbery, raiding, and in hiring its services to other magi and covenants. Their grogs are proficient enough thieves that they earn enough to pay for the provisions the covenant needs.''
''Mobile Laboratories''
''Each of the Mac Tire magi has a similar laboratory designed to be packed away for easy transport by the team of servants and soldiers in their employ. As these laboratories usually include the magus’ living quarters they have significant downsides, something that the younger magi in the covenant frequently complain about. Names Added to Sanctum Marker: None Characteristics: Size +0 (0), Refinement +0, General Quality +0, Upkeep –1, Safety –2, Warping +0, Health –5, Aesthetics –3 Virtues & Flaws: Lesser Feature (cauldron), Living Quarters, Mobile, Specimens, Servant; Hovel Specializations: +1 Animal, +2 Experimentation, +1 Mentem The servant (with Intelligence +2) is a learned clerk who sees to the needs of the magi in their laboratories. He does a good job for the magi but his loyalty is born of fear rather than attachment.''

==Mundane Relations==

''The days of entertaining kings and princes are long since gone. There are no hunts in the nearby woodland, no trade in enchanted items, and nobody comes seeking the wisdom of the druids any more. The only mundane relations now are through the goods sold at market, the travelers over the toll bridge, and the jealous eyes of those who weigh up the grogs that guard''
''the bridge and think that they could take it from them. If the magi of Longmist are not careful, they may soon find their grogs overrun and the toll-bridge lost. The market town of Inniskil is the closest the covenant gets to interacting with the outside world. Fish is sold at the market by the covenant’s teamsters, and this funds the purchase of food and other supplies. Some of the merchants know the nature of the covenant, but most believe it is some kind of monastery or hermitage.''
''Ruadan mac Goibhniu''
''Ruadan is a prince and druid of the Túatha Dé Danann, descended from Goibhniu the smith of ancient legend. He has the same power of crafting and enchantment as his forebear, but it is his counsel that benefits the covenant more than his magic. He acts as a mediator between the covenant and the faerie world, providing guidance on the covenant’s interactions with the fae. His soldiers are also responsible for guarding the covenant’s cathach against raids from other covenants. His right to sit at the council is enshrined in the covenant charter and his principal ally is Conchobor. Like Conchobor, he calls for the isolation of the valley to be maintained and to let the world outside do as it will. In fact, where his counsel is sought upon various matters, he takes the line that maintains the covenant’s isolation. While he rarely plots against the covenant as a whole, he has in the past worked against individual magi where their activities might either take them away from the valley or bring others to it. His reasons are currently unknown.''
''Giants''
''Giants are a frequent concern. They come down from the hills and mountains when the weather is harsh or food scarce. They mostly take the occasional sheep but they have been known to attempt cattle. They rarely work together, and often fight. As they do not understand boundaries or dwellings, they have been known to blunder into the village while crossing the valley. They usually cause more incidental damage than intentional, And they can usually be persuaded to move on with the promise of food or some shiny bauble. Use the statistics provided in Realms of Power: Faerie, page 98 for faerie giants, and''
''the statistics for Barcas provided in Realms of Power: Magic, page 86 for magical giants. Ruadan mac Goibhniu often speaks on behalf of the covenant where faerie giants are concerned, but he has no influence with beasts of the Magic realm.''
''Faerie Merchants''
''With the exception of Inniskil market, the covenant rarely trades with outsiders. This is partly due to the train of faerie merchants who appear each midsummer’s eve. They stay for three days and nights, during which time the covenant buys laboratory tools and glasswork, the kind of supplies that cannot be found at Inniskil. There is little to distinguish the rickety wagons pulled by oxen from those of mundane pedlars, apart from the absence of iron and the ability of their animals to talk. They appear to want nothing unusual in payment for their goods. Equipment purchased from them has no detrimental effect to laboratory work and appears to be entirely mundane, though where it comes from is another question. The faerie merchants are under instruction from Ruadan to return each year and it is he who enforces the time and duration of their visits.''
''The Banshee and Her Kind''
''There are banshees in Ulaid who watch over the Ulaidh and sing laments for their impending deaths. As a deathbed visitor, the banshee has been seen and heard many times near the covenant in its history, but it is also common for people of the surrounding area to brave the unnatural mists and seek help and advice from the magi of Longmist. See Realms of Power: Faerie, page 80 for more details on banshees.''
''Elemental Spirits''
''Both Lugh and Dara are summoners and controllers of spirits. As their arts are ancient they are well-understood by the elemental spirits of Ireland and the spirits are generally well-inclined toward them and to the covenant by extension, though there are some, mostly spirits of fire, that are fearful and resentful of the magi. On the whole, persons claiming friendship or kinship with Lugh or Dara are looked upon more kindly by the elemental spirits than those who do not.''
''Druids''
''The name of Longmist used to carry respect among the druids of Hibernia, but it has been many generations since Longmist actively pursued friendship. Lugh and Dara’s heritage as summoners counts for something, though many hedge wizards of Hibernia consider it a great pity that they have been turned to the Order of Hermes. Connacht is still forbidden ground to the Order, so it pays to have contacts and allies across the border. Unfortunately, it has been so long now since Longmist had any dealings with them that they will need to find new contacts and build new relationships. However, at present, with its voice at Tribunal muted, the covenant has little to offer in return.''

==Resources==

''Longmist traded many of their older resources with the druids of Connacht to ensure that they secured apprentices, and lost many others during engagements with faerie rogues. The resources described below represent those that remain. There are many others that have been lost, broken, or whose magic has expired. This is particularly true of many of the Verditius devices that the covenant has seen in its history.''

==Enchanted Devices==

''The following describes the items known to still be at Longmist. These cost 142 Build Points. Many others that once enhanced life at Longmist have been lost or broken and some have even been taken to the Hermetic graveyard at the covenant of Qui Sonant Pro Quieto to be buried with their creators.''
''Ualgrimm’s Pelt''
''This is the covenant’s Cathach. It has the power to turn the wearer into a wolf, similar to the common Hermetic spell Shape Of The Woodland Prowler, a power it supposedly gained through warping at Ualgrimm’s last stand. MuCo(An) 25 Pen +0, 1/day R: Touch, D: Concentration, T: Individual This power is triggered by placing the pelt over the target, and that target is trans''
''formed into a wolf. The target may change back at will, ending the effect. The effect is a physical transformation and the target’s mind and character are unchanged. (Effect: Base 10, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration) The pelt costs 10 Build Points.''
''The Enchanted Door''
''InVi(Im) 30 Pen +0, unlimited use R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Vision This door installed into a wall in the lesser tower opens into the greater tower by spanning the regio boundary. This allows covenfolk without Second Sight to move freely between the regio layers by simply touching the door, which reveals the regio. Movement through the door does not cause Warping. (Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 Vision, free requisite; +10 unlimited use) The door costs 12 Build Points.''
''The Broken Shield of Cú Chulainn''
''Split into two halves, this wooden shield trimmed with a sharpened iron edge was clearly designed for a very large man. It was once a faerie weapon that passed on the skill to use it to its wielder. If it could be magically mended, the wielder would generate a Single Weapon Defense Total as though he had a Single Weapon skill of 10. It is displayed in Longmist’s great hall and costs 10 Build Points.''

[|

==Story Seed: A Service for a Service==

''Ruadan’s Túatha may protect the covenant and its Cathach, but they demand service in return. These things may be simple, such as confronting a dangerous presence in their underground home, or more subtle, such as bringing them the tears of a mother bereft of her child. Ruadan leaves no option for the magi of Longmist: if the service is refused, then the bargain that protects the Cathach is broken.''

|]
''Cearnach’s Mount''
''This device, in the shape of a small wooden figurine of a horse and rider attached to a leather thong, creates a horse, accepting of The Gift, suitable for a magus to ride. The device is normally worn around the neck, but the leather thong on the device is now very brittle and could easily break if mishandled.''
''Cr(Re)An(Te) 51 Pen +0, 2/day R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Group This effect creates a living horse and riding tack at the user’s command. The horse becomes fatigued as normal and must be fed and tended, but it is compliant to those with The Gift. In addition, a magus may substitute his Finesse Score for Ride or Animal Handling when riding or interacting with the summoned animal. An Intelligence + Finesse roll is used to determine the quality of the saddle, bridle, and reins. (Effect: Base 15, +1 Rego, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Size, +2 Group; Modifications: +1 2/day) The device costs 22 Build Points.''
''The Bronze Man''
''The large bronze statue of a bare-chested bearded craftsman standing in the courtyard has a classical countenance but the complex joints give away its true design. It is an automaton crafted by Faventinus of Verditius, the Cailleach’s grand-parens. He used it as a forge assistant, but something happened to make him send the Bronze Man into the courtyard never to return. Those in the covenant who took notice of the Bronze Man never asked why it was there and most now assume it to be just a statue. Its Might is damaged (it currently has an effective Might of 6 and –5 on any Ability rolls) and to repair it requires the Verditius Automata Inner Mystery (Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 128). This Inner Mystery is not required to investigate its powers, however. This can be done in the normal way as a standard laboratory action. Doing so reveals the command words to reactivate the Bronze Man. Although mute, the Bronze Man has seen and heard everything that has happened in the courtyard for the last 80 years. If it can be coaxed back to its normal functioning, the device can follow instructions of any complexity given to it that concern its blacksmithing and any other instructions that neither require a positive Intelligence nor an Ability score other than Craft: Blacksmith. The Bronze Man costs 48 Build Points. Similar automata had been created to open and close the main gates on command, but these are broken. There was once also a bronze bull, the prize of Longmist’s herd, but that has not been seen for many years.''
''The Observance Bell''
''There was a time when the covenfolk did not have to wake at all hours and ring the great bell for their masters’ convenience. Once upon a time, magic did that task for them, but the magic in the bell died nearly forty years ago. Nobody is quite sure why and as long as there are covenfolk to ring the bell by hand the magi have expressed no interest in finding out. This bronze bell is not large, counting only as a medium-sized device for enchantment purposes, and had been opened with 15 pawns of vis. A cursory examination shows the bell to have a crack in its side, a crack that seems to have been sufficient to break the magic. Closer inspection shows a''

[|

==Story Seed: The Missing Cathach==

''When a magus discovers a laboratory text in Longmist’s library describing the form and power of the Cathach down to the last detail, the suspicion rises that the true cathach has been lost, replaced by an enchantment. If word of this got out, the covenant could fall as none of its resources would enjoy legal protection under the Code. Do the magi hide the discovery, bring it to council, or, assuming that it really is missing, try to find the true Cathach? But who would take it and why hasn’t the Tribunal already heard about it?''

==Story Seed: The Cattle Raid==

''Éamonn reports seeing a mechanical bull amid the herd of a Leinster covenant. Is this the bull missing from Longmist for so many years? If so, do the magi take the matter to Tribunal or, in the manner of the old ways, do they plan a raid to snatch the bull and return it to Longmist?''

|]
''shallow dent at the top of the crack, suggesting a strike with some kind of hammer. The Laboratory Texts for each of its effects are held within the library, and these give a magus the means to re-enchant it. Given the number of pawns used to open it, the bell would not need to be opened a second time to take the following effects.''
''Divine the Heavens’ Aspect InVi 29 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Individual As per the effect detailed in The Mysteries: Revised Edition, page 51, the bell has the ability to “watch the heavens” and take constant measurements as to the movement of the sun and the moon through the day and night, the phase of the moon, the seasons, and the year. This provides enough information to trigger the other effects invested within the bell. (Effect: Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''Toll the Offices ReTe 12 Pen +0, 12/day R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Individual Designed into this effect are the hours and offices of Longmist. At the time for each, the bell tolls, sounding through the covenant, calling the magi to assemble. (Effect: Base 2, +2 metal, +1 Diameter; Modifications: +4 for 12/day, +3 triggered by Divine the Heavens’ Aspect)''
''Toll the Phases of the Moon ReTe 8 Pen +0, 1/day R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Individual This effect tolls the bell at each significant phase of the moon, such as new, quarter, and full moons. (Effect: Base 2, +2 metal, +1 Diameter; Modifications: +3 triggered by Divine the Heavens’ Aspect)''
''Toll the Equinoxes and the Solstices ReTe 8 Pen +0, 1/day R: Personal, D: Diameter, T: Individual This effect tolls the bell at each equinox and solstice through the year. (Effect: Base 2, +2 metal, +1 Diameter; Modifications: +3 triggered by Divine the Heavens’ Aspect)''

==Prepared Casting Spaces==

''The greater tower houses a dedicated casting space in the form of a large circular chamber. The polished white stone floor is inscribed with various interlocking and separate circles, the walls contain glass mirrors that direct light, and from the ceiling hang numerous braziers. These props provide a +5 to casting totals for spells cast within the room and ceremonial magic cast here takes just one minute per magnitude. See Houses of Hermes: Societates, pages 58–60 for more information.''
''Library''
''Longmist’s library is a wondrous thing. Housed in the greater tower, it occupies two levels joined by a spiral staircase. Sections branch off radially, like spokes in a cartwheel, and a multitude of texts rest flat on ranks of shelves. The Longmist library contains many books written in an outdated dialect, a staid writing style, and even volumes that include many references to other works. Such works are often more difficult to work with than others without affecting their inherent quality. To model this, activities can be given an''
''additional cost in days distraction. This is a number of extra days that the magus needs to expend toward the activity. Normally, the magus may take a ten-day distraction without incurring a penalty toward the activity. A particularly heavy-weight book may require a five or even ten day distraction by itself in order to benefit. Some of the books below impose this distraction. A total of 1089 Build Points has been spent on the library across Abilities, Arts, Casting Tablets, and Laboratory Texts. Texts marked with an asterisk are written in vernacular Gaelic. All other texts are in Latin.''
''Arcane Abilities''
''218 Build Points have been spent on Arcane Abilities, such as Finesse, Magic Theory, Parma Magica, and Penetration. The library also contains texts on each of the Realms as well as texts concerning the Sihr Ability of the Corrguineach. One of these books was given to the covenant by Brea Mac Boru, the druid killed during Dara’s reckless summonings. A number of these volumes have been written in Gaelic, and one of these, the Lebor Feasa Runda,''

[|

==The Blade that Slew the Wolf==

''This great sparra, a traditional Irish ax, is the weapon that slew Ualgrimm, giving Longmist its Cathach. Its laboratory texts are now lost. The sparra stands five feet tall, and has a long gently curved haft of rowan wood, and a narrow protruding iron head, which is etched with Irish knotwork and Hermetic symbols inlaid with silver. It has seen the ministrations of a skilled Verditius, which has improved its combat statistics. Hannewalt of Tytalus created the sparra and his sigil expresses in these effects through an arc of mist that trails the head when it is swung. Bran is currently the only man able to wield the sparra to good effect, but he is not routinely armed with it. The sparra has the following combat statistics:''
''Ability  Init Atk Dfn Dam Str Load Great Sparra Great +1 +10 0 +11 +12''
''Death with Each Blow PeAn 38 Pen +40, 6/day R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual If the effect penetrates a beast’s Magic Resistance, it is instantly struck with a Medium wound in addition to any wound that the ax blow itself causes. (Base 10, +1 Touch; +3 6/day, +20 for +40 Penetration)''
''Dull the Stamina of the Wolf PeAn 31 Pen +40, 6/day R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual Triggered when the linked Death with Each Blow effect penetrates, this effect fatigues the target animal, causing the beast to lose a Fatigue Level. (Base 4, +1 Touch; +3 triggered by Death with Each Blow, +3 for 6/day, +20 for +40 Penetration) The sparra costs 28 Build Points.''

|]
''is a translation of works written before the birth of Christ. It contains descriptions of the old magic: objects of virtue, rituals that produce vis, and powerful shape and material bonuses for using the sixteen characters of the Boibel Loth alphabet. No magus has so far integrated these ancient ways into Hermetic magic. Aelfric, De Initio Creaturae, Dominion Lore Tractatus, Quality 9. Part of a volume that also provides a Tractatus on Infernal Lore. (9BP) The Monks of Llancarfan, The Llancarfan Saints’ Lives, Dominion Lore Tractatus, Quality 6. As a twelfth-century book, this is evidence that trade was still occurring in the last fifty or so years. (6BP) Fergus of Merinita, The Manor of the Túatha Dé Danann, Faerie Lore Tractatus, Quality 7. Concerning the Túatha Dé Danann, but in particular Ruadan. (7BP) Eochaidh Ollamh Foghla, Lebor Feasa Runda*, Faerie Lore Tractatus, Quality 10, and Magic Lore Tractatus, Level 10. Written by an ancient High King of Ireland, this is a''
''most valued possession. (20BP) Aelfric, De Initio Creaturae, Infernal Lore Tractatus, Quality 9. Part of a volume that also provides a Tractatus on Dominion Lore. (9BP) Michael Psellos, De Operationes Daemonum Dialogus, Infernal Lore Summa, Level 5, Quality 12. A small book and clearly old. Apparently written by many different hands (a strange affliction that affects any copy made of this book). (27BP) Fergus of Merinita, The Wisdom of Fionntan, Magic Lore Tractatus, Quality 6. This is a Latin recording of a discussion Fergus held with an old druid. It touches upon the old magic used across Hibernia. (6BP) Callum of the Younger House, Remembered Ways*, Sihr Tractatus, Quality 8. Old and annotated by many subsequent hands. (8BP) Brea Mac Boru, Lebor Liathanach*, Sihr Tractatus, Quality 8. This book is less than 25 years old and is clearly not written by a Hermetic magus. (8BP) Lugh-éccnaid, The Ascendence of Hermetic Ways*, Sihr Tractatus, Quality 10. Argues''
''that the ancient ways of summoning are now eclipsed by Hermetic methods. (10BP) Cearnach of Verditius, In innectis de phylacterium, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 8. Casts Magic Theory in the role of mechanism, made up of the constituent Arts. Describes the Mysteries as mere application of that mechanism. (8BP) Calvacius of Tytalus, Bonisagi Apocrypha, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 8. Expresses the opinion that covenants should research their own enhancements outside of Bonisagus control. (8BP) Tadhg an Tuir of Verditius, Codex of Enchantments, Magic Theory Tractatus, Quality 9. Demonstrates principles of Magic Theory by examples of simple device enchantments known across the Order. The work makes reference to calculations and formulae apparently provided in another text, now sadly missing. This makes the book harder to work with and costs a three day distraction. (9BP) Niall of the Younger House, Ars Accuratio, Finesse Tractatus, Quality 7. (7BP) Calvacius of Tytalus, Per de Delicatum, Finesse Tractatus, Quality 8. The reader suffers from the Slow Caster Flaw during the season of study as they emulate Calvacius’ techniques. (8BP) Niall of the Younger House, In Demonstratio Vi, Penetration Tractatus, Quality 7. (7BP) Marcus Cordo of House Flambeau, Libro Fortitudo, Penetration Tractatus, Quality 8. (8BP) Hannewalt of Tytalus, Scutum Quod Protegit Nobis, Parma Magica Tractatus, Quality 8. Written as a guide to practice, requiring two magi to study at the same time. (8BP) Marcus Cordo of Flambeau, In Praesidia Praebuit Per Magica Formae, Parma Magica Tractatus, Quality 8. On harmonizing Parma Magica with the Hermetic Forms. (8BP) Dáire Boircech of Vigil, Occulta Magicis, Faerie Magic Tractatus, Quality 7. Concerns ranges, durations, and targets of Faerie Magic. (7BP) Anonymous, Nympharum Magicae, Faerie Magic Tractatus, Quality 6. Concerns the magic of the wee folk, not the Túatha Dé Danann. (6BP) Calvacius of Tytalus, Destruet Extremum Preiudicium, Demon’s Eternal Oblivion Spell Mastery, Quality 8. (8BP) Cearnach of Verditius, Magister Crystállum Pilum, The Crystal Dart Spell Mastery, Quality 8. (8BP) Marcus Cordo, Multa Partum Vulnera, The Wound that Weeps Spell Mastery, Quality 8. (8BP)''

[|

==The Bronze Man==

''The automaton has been opened with 17 pawns of vis and a total of 14 pawns have been used to invest the device with enchantments, leaving up to thirty levels that could still be invested into the device. Each of the invested powers operates as a constant effect, but the automaton responds to commands and is able to suspend operation of these powers. Magic Might: 17 (6) Characteristics: Int 0, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str +1, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik 0 Size: +2 Combat: Dodge: Init 0, Attack n/a, Defense 0, Damage n/a Fist: Init 0, Attack +1, Defense 0, Damage +1 Bludgeon: Init 0, Attack +3, Defense 0, Damage +3 Soak: +25 (bonus applied to Damage Checks, as per City & Guild, page 77) Damage Levels: 4 (as per City & Guild, page 77) Abilities: Craft: Blacksmith 5 Powers: Freedom of Movement ReTe(Me) 29 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Part The automaton is able to walk to places as directed by a human controller or to meet the needs of any other instructions. For such a large device, the automaton is careful to avoid causing damage to people or things around it. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 Mentem requisite; Modifications: +1 for 2/''
''day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''Dexterity of the Master CrTe 29 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Part This power gives the automaton a Dexterity of +1 as per the description in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130. (Effect: Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 Part; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''Strength of the Master CrTe 29 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Part This power gives the automaton a Strength of +1 as per the description in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130. (Effect: Base 10, +2 Sun, +1 Part; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set)''
''The Master At Work ReTe(Me) 49 Pen +0, Constant Effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Part The automaton has been invested with the Craft: Blacksmith Ability to a score of 5. (Effect: Base 5, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 Mentem requisite, +4 for a score of 5; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) Further information on the powers detailed above and their costs is available in Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 129.''

|]
''Mundane Knowledge''
''60 Build Points have been spent on volumes of mundane knowledge. Fergus of Merinita, Vita Diedne, Organization Lore: Order of Hermes Tractatus, Quality 7. Written in the twenty years before the Schism War, this book discusses several important Diedne magi of the time. (7BP) Cearnach of Verditius, The Houses in their Turn, Organization Lore: Order of Hermes Tractatus, Quality 7. Bound in split wood, this volume explores the character of each Hermetic House. House Bjornaer is treated with scorn and House Diedne with a degree of understanding. (7BP) Niall of the Younger House, Responses to the Younger House, Code of Hermes Tractatus, Quality 6. Reviews how the Code was amended or interpreted to allow House Ex Miscellanea to join the Order. (6BP) Fergus of Merinita, Arguments as to the Founding of Covenants, Code of Hermes Tractatus, Quality 7. A surprisingly broad view on the early peripheral code on the founding of covenants and assigning of residential rights. (7BP) Anonymous, Accalam na Senorach*, Area Lore: Hibernia (History) Tractatus, Quality 8. The Tales of the Elders. (8BP) Anonymous, Lebor Gabala Erenn*, Area Lore: Hibernia (History) Tractatus, Quality 9. The Book of the Taking of Ireland recounts the five great invasions of Ireland and the various conquests of subsequent peoples. (9BP) Calvacius of Tytalus, Tractatus Ethicorum, Philosophiae Tractatus, Quality 8. Calvacius’ influential style imposes a “Condescending +1” personality trait in the season during and following the study of this book. (8BP) Calvacius of Tytalus, Tractatus in Rhetoricæ Orationis, Artes Liberales Tractatus, Quality 8. Calvacius’ influential style imposes an “Argumentative +1” personality trait in the season during and following the study of this book. (8BP)''
''Books on the Arts''
''496 Build Points have been spent on volumes concerning the Hermetic Arts. Fergus of Merinita, Disputatione in Creatio, Creo Summa, Level 14, Quality 10. A set of ten volumes, each largely concerning one of the Forms. Hard to work with, and so imposes a five-day distraction. (24BP) Beradi of Jerbiton, Factionis Rerum, Creo Tractatus, Quality 8. Provides a +3 bonus to the Intelligence + Finesse roll if used as a prop during the casting of spells that create artificial things. (8BP)''
''Occulus of Donum Chanuti, Disputations, Intellego Summa, Level 12, Quality 19. May be used as a prop for Ceremonial Intellego spells, granting a +3 bonus (31BP) Conchobor Crosach, Veritas Caeca, Intellego Tractatus, Quality 11. Using Intellego to gain information that would otherwise be unseen. (11BP) Anonymous, Innaturale Forma Quae, Muto Summa, Level 13, Quality 10. Guidance on making unnatural changes to natural forms. (23BP) Bohemond of Paris, Mutationes ad Figura Rerum, Muto Tractatus, Quality 6. Physical transformations between natural forms. (6BP) Ciprian Maxim, Remotionem Attributa, Perdo Summa, Level 14, Quality 9. The removal of magical or unusual qualities. (23BP) Cristescu of Tremere, Occidere Magicis, Perdo Tractatus, Quality 8. Using magic to cause physical wounds. (8BP) Faventinus of Verditius, In Invisibili Manu, Rego Summa, Level 12, Quality 9. A detailed''
''guide on using Rego to move and manipulate the Hermetic Forms. (21BP) Lugh-éccnaid, Adducam de Naturalis Mutata, Rego Tractatus, Quality 11. On making natural changes to a Form, notably Mentem. (11BP) Ualgrimm of Bjornaer, Anathomen Lupus, Animal Summa, Level 11, Quality 9. A detailed anatomy of the lupine form, taken as the spoils of victory when the author was slain by the covenant. (20BP) Ualgrimm of Bjornaer, Centum Bestiæ, Animal Tractatus, Quality 8. A bestiary of mundane and magical animals, taken as the spoils of victory when the author was slain by the covenant. (8BP) Aecor of Bjornaer, Aquas ex Aquilonis Maria, Aquam Summa, Level 14, Quality 10. Requires fresh seawater to be present every week during which this book is studied, otherwise the text fades and the work cannot be used. (24BP) Marcus Pluviam of Bonisagus, Praecipitatio, Aquam Tractatus, Quality 9. Ponders''

[|

==Shape and Material Bonuses for the Boibel Loth==

''The Boibel Loth is an ancient writing system consisting of sixteen characters. In addition to their function in written language, each of the characters has mystical associations, which in their inscribed form contribute Shape and Material bonuses toward magical projects. A minor breakthrough (Houses of Hermes: True Lineages, page 26) is needed to rediscover this old magic and grant access to the power of the Boibel Loth. Doing so allows the magus to incorporate the symbols into their enchantments and also to design them into rituals, where they provide a bonus to the casting total. They can also be used in Charm Magic as distinct Charms. See Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 96 for more detail.''
''Name  Equivalent  Bonuses  Boibel  B   +5 Inception       +3 Sun  Loth  L   +5 Fire  Forann  F   +5 Spring  Salia  S   +5 Moon       +3 Witches  Neiagadon N   +5 Water  Daibhaith D   +5 Door       +3 Travel or Passage  Teilmon T   +5 Growth       +3 Gain  Cailep  C   +5 Women  Moiria  M   +5 Autumn  Gath  G   +5 Balance and Even      Handedness  Riuben  R   +5 Winter       +3 Decay  Acab  A   +5 Birth       +3 New Life  Ose  O   +5 Youth       +3 Initiation  Ura  U   +5 Maturity       +3 Consummation  Esu  E   +5 Aging and Old Age  Jaichim I   +5 Death''

|]
''the relationship between Auram and Aquam through observable phenomena. (9BP) Tempestas Ventus ex Miscellanea, Auras et Magna Procellis, Auram Summa, Level 14, Quality 10. Imposes a ten-day distraction when studied as the volume requires certain atmospheric phenomenon to be present, or for the magus to summon them. (24BP) Anonymous, Controversias ad Aerea Phaenomenon, Auram Tractatus, Quality 10. A lengthy liber quaestionum. (10BP) Buffon of Jerbiton, Substantia Hominis, Corpus Summa, Level 11, Quality 13. A magical anatomy of the human form containing numerous detailed illuminations. (24BP) Anonymous, Vulnerant Humana Forma, Corpus Tractatus, Quality 8. Ways in which magic can harm or inhibit the functioning of the human form. Record of the author has been cut from the book. (8BP) Quintinus Roboreus, Nota Plantarum Naturale et Non, Herbam Summa, Level 14, Quality 9. Imposes a ten-day distraction as the magus must collect fresh examples of many common herbs and other plants and undertake magical investigations. (23BP) Cassano of Verdi, In Flexibus Mortuus Lignum, Herbam Tractatus, Quality 8. A light tractatus on altering dead wood through magic. (8BP) Elaine of Flambeau, Ars Flambonis, Ignem Summa, Level 14, Quality 12. As presented in Houses of Hermes: Societates, page 9. (26BP) Marcus Cordo of Flambeau, Punctis ad Quod Materias Ignire, Ignem Tractatus, Quality 9. A set of tables listing the relative points at which various materials combust. (9BP) Fergus of Merinita, Illusiones, Imaginem Summa, Level 12, Quality 12. Describes Hermetic equivalents to a journey through a faerie glamour to a great treasure. Probably apocryphal. (24BP) Fergus of Merinita, Procul Videre et Audire, Imaginem Tractatus, Quality 9. Concerning the collection of sensory information at a distance. (9BP) Valdés of Guernicus, Multa Status Cogitatio, Mentem Summa, Level 14, Quality 13. Reduce the source quality by five if not studied in a laboratory with a test subject upon which various mental states can be projected. (27BP) Wulthric of Criamon, Somnia et Memoriis Somnia, Mentem Tractatus, Quality 8. A treatise specifically on dreams and what is remembered of them. (8BP) Adamo of Guernicus, Index Lapides, Terram Summa, Level 12, Quality 13. Lists soils, sands, stones, glass, and metals described through the Art of Terram. (25BP)''
''Cearnach of Verditius, Vita de Aeramen, Terram Tractatus, Quality 9. Treatise on the qualities of bronze. (9BP) Bastian Özil of Bonisagus, Novum Interpretationem, Vim Summa, Level 12, Quality 12. Predates the Schism War. (24BP) Conchobor Crosach, Libro Scientia, Vim Tractatus, Quality 11. Looks at Vim’s relationship to the other Forms through Muto Vim effects. (11BP)''
''Casting Tablets''
''Casting tablets worth 32 Build Points for the following spells are available in the library. There were more, but many have been lost or damaged through the years. Hannewalt of Tytalus, Aegis of the Hearth, ReVi 60, ArM5, page 161. (12BP) Hannewalt of Tytalus, Watching Ward, ReVi 60, ArM5, page 162. (12BP) Each of the above casting tablets have a spell level of 30 plus a matching Penetration. Hannewalt of Tytalus, Disenchant, PeVi 40, ArM5, page 160. (8BP)''
''Laboratory Texts''
''283 Build Points have been spent on Laboratory Texts. The library contains Longevity Rituals for Lugh, Conchobor, and several of the specialists. These have all been designed by Lugh, some to a higher standard than others. Lugh’s Longevity Ritual, CrCo 65 (13BP) Conchobor’s Longevity Ritual, CrCo 60 (12BP) Columb Brathair’s Longevity Ritual, CrCo 40 (8BP) Cathal Gobha’s Longevity Ritual, CrCo 40 (8BP) Piaras’ Longevity Ritual, CrCo 40 (8BP) Wizard’s Communion, MuVi 10, 15, 20, 30, and 40, ArM5, page 160 (23BP) Demon’s Eternal Oblivion and similar spells against Magic and Faerie beasts, PeVi 15, ArM5, page 160 (9BP) Circular Ward against Demons,  ReVi 10, 20, and 25, ArM5, page 162 (11BP) Opening the Intangible Tunnel, ReVi 30 and 35, ArM5, page 162 (13BP) Unseen Arm and Unseen Porter, ReTe Various, ArM5, pages 155 & 156 (3BP) Prying Eyes, Summoning the Distant Image, Veil of Invisibility, and Wizard’s Sidestep, Various Imaginem, ArM5, pages 144 to 147 (12BP) Notes of a Delightful Sound, Disguise of the Transformed Image, and Disguise of the New Visage, Various, ArM5, pages 131, 145, & 146 (8BP) Bind Wound, Chirurgeon’s Healing Touch, and Incantation of the Body Made Whole, CrCo Various,''
''ArM5, page 129 (14BP) Sense of Faerie Power, Sense of Magical Power, Piercing the Faerie Veil, and Piercing the Magical Veil, InVi Various, ArM5, pages 157 & 158 (10BP) Watching Ward, ReVi 30, ArM5, page 162 (6BP) Aegis of the Hearth, ReVi 30, ArM5, page 161 (6BP) Divine the Heavens’ Aspect device effect, InVi 29 (5BP) Toll the Offices device effect,  ReTe 12 (3BP) Toll the Phases of the Moon device effect, ReTe 8 (2BP) Toll the Equinoxes and the Solstices device effect, ReTe 8 (2BP) Tie The Threads That Bind (Bronze Man), ReVi 32, Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130 (7BP) All device effects required to create The Bronze Man Verditius automaton, Various Arts, Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130 (24BP) All effects required to create The Bronze Bull Verditius automaton, Various, Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130 (18BP) Tie The Threads That Bind (Bronze Bull), ReVi 32, Houses of Hermes: Mystery Cults, page 130 (7BP) Shroud Magic, MuVi 20, ArM5, page 159 (4BP) Maintaining the Demanding Spell, ReV 25, ArM5, page 162 (5BP) Balance of the Honest Merchant, InTe 8, see nearby box, (2BP) Honesty of the Unbalanced Merchant, ReMe 28, see nearby box, (6BP) Cearnach’s Distant Twin, various, see nearby box (31BP) Endurance of the Berserkers, ReCo 15, ArM5, page 134, (3BP)''

==Vis Stocks==

''278 Build Points have been spent on vis, of which 80 Build Points have been spent on vis stocks and the remainder on sources. Some of the sources contain vis in the form of Extraordinary Vis, as described in Realms of Power: Magic. These stocks have been built up across many years and many of the pawns of vis are covered in dust or lie forgotten in the bottom of chests. That a Hibernian covenant has collected and stored so much vis is considered unusual.''
''The Fleas of Saint Nannan''
''There is a certain village in Connacht that in years gone by was infested with fleas. The people of that village did not know what to do to rid themselves of this vermin and so they turned to Saint Nannan. Divine power swept away every last flea and put them in a nearby meadow and to this day not a single flea may live in that village, but the meadow is so brimming with them that no man nor beast may stay long there.''
''Long before Giraldus Cambrensis described this oddity in his History and Topography of Ireland, Longmist had acquired samples of the earth from both the village and the meadow and found that both contain spell-like vis. Both types are of Animal and they each have one of the following effects. Rego Animal 20 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group Each pawn of vis scattered on the ground, whether that is earth, stone, sand, or even inside a building, spontaneously generates 1000''
''fleas. While their production is a thing of magic, the magic is simply accelerating a natural phenomenon and as a result these fleas are natural and unaffected by Magic Resistance. These cost 3 Build Points per 5 pawns of vis. (Base 5, +1 Touch, +2 Group) Perdo Animal 45 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Group Each pawn of vis scattered on the ground, whether that is earth, stone, sand, or even inside a building, immediately kills animals up to a standard group. The effect does''

[|

==Lost or Broken Devices==

''There have been many devices created by many magi across Longmist’s long history, and many of these are unfortunately lost or broken. For some, the Laboratory Texts remain and they could be remade with just a little investment of time and vis.''
''Balance of the Honest Merchant''
''Pen +0, 6/day InTe 8 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual This lesser enchanted device, once entrusted to teamsters and other covenfolk, checks whether the weight of something bought at market is as agreed. It takes the form of an iron hook attached to a short length of rope. The device is triggered by looping the hook into the item to be weighed, usually a bale or barrel, and pulling upon the short handle of rope. The device user immediately learns the target’s weight to the desired level of detail, be it a grain, an ounce, a pound, or a ton. The laboratory text for this device costs 2BP. (Effect: Base 4, +1 Touch; Modifications: +3 for 6/day)''
''Honesty of the    Unbalanced Merchant''
''Pen +20, 6/day ReMe 28 R: Touch, D: Momentary, T: Individual The effect, enchanted into a plain and unobtrusive ring as a lesser enchantment, is activated upon shaking hands with the target. It strongly inclines the target to be truthful, going so far as to admit any lie, deception, or other untruth just told to the device wearer. This is not automatic, however. An Untruthful or similar Personality Trait roll against an Ease Factor of 9 is required for the target to avoid immediately blurting out the truth. The ring was given to covenfolk going to market to ensure to help them avoid be''
''ing taken advantage of by canny and ruthless traders. The ring is designed to include a Penetration score in order to deal with traders and merchants who might hide behind relics or even Infernal protection. The laboratory text for this device costs 6BP. (Effect: Base 10, +1 Touch; Modifications: +3 for 6/day, +10 for +20 Penetration)''
''Cearnach’s Distant Twin''
''The laboratory texts describe a device of wood and bronze in the shape of a man, articulated at the joints such that it can mimic normal human motion. However, it is actually a much smaller copy of this figure, carved from the same wood, that is enchanted and each enchantment acts at Arcane Connection range upon the larger figure. It was designed and built by Cearnach of Verditius and while the completed control device was burned and damaged beyond repair shortly after its completion, the laboratory texts describing the enchantments remain. It is said that Cearnach suffered from the Blatant Gift and this device was designed to allow him to interact with individuals in person without the problem of his Gift coming between them. This greater enchantment has several effects to allow the device user to act over a distance. The first animates the wooden form, the second allows the device user to see and hear through it, and the third clothes the device in the user’s own image. There are references in the texts to a fourth experimental device effect that could allow the user to cast magic through the device, but if it was ever completed the laboratory text for it no longer exists. The laboratory texts for this device cost a total of 31 Build Points.''
''Animate this Form Pen +0, Unlimited ReHe 50 R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Individual''
''This effect animates the wooden man under the control of the device user. Even relatively fine movements are no problem under calm conditions, although a Finesse roll is required under stress. The wooden man has physical statistics of 0 for each of Strength, Stamina, Dexterity, and Quickness and these are used in place of the magus’ own. (Effect: Base 10, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration; +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''
''His Sight Is Mine Pen +0, Unlimited InIm 60 R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Special Allows the magus to operate all senses at a distance through the target wooden figure. (Effect: Base 5, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration, +3 for special Target; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''
''Clothe this Form Pen +0, Unlimited MuIm 45 R: Arcane Connection, D: Concentration, T: Individual This effect changes all species emitted by the target figure into those normally emitted by the device’s user. A Finesse roll is required, as described in ArM5, page 143 but the device creator gains a +3 to this roll. Cearnach’s original version of this effect included one experimental sideeffect; the image is mirrored such that a scar on the left hand appears on the right. The movement of the image is unaffected, however. (Effect: Base 5, +4 Arcane Connection, +1 Concentration; Modifications: +5 device maintains concentration, +10 unlimited use)''

|]
''not discriminate between types of animals so great care must be taken in handling this vis. These cost 6 Build Points per 5 pawns of vis. (Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 Group) The covenant owns fifteen pawns of the flea-generating soil and five of the soil harmful to animals.''
''The Burning Hand''
''A macabre gift to the covenant from the Túatha Dé Danann, this lesser enchantment vis takes the form of a left hand cut from a corpse and any candle placed between its fingers never goes out. The hand contains 5 pawns of Ignem vis and the following effect. CrIg 9 A candle placed in the hand’s upturned fingers immediately ignites and remains lit with a magical flame until the candle is removed. (Effect: Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) The burning hand costs 2 Build Points.''
''The Balm of Tír Nan Óg''
''This faerie gift has the power to resolve a terminal aging crisis. CrCo 40 R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind When the balm is applied to the stricken target, the rigors of age and infirmity are held at bay and the target gains the strength to overcome the crisis. One dose of the balm was applied by Lugh''
''to The Cailleach’s parens, Tadhg an Tuir, when he fell gravely ill but even its power seemed insufficient to save the elderly magus. (Base 35, +1 Touch) Each dose of the balm contains four pawns of Creo vis, costing 4 Build Points. If the dose is split then the inherent magic is lost. There are five doses remaining for a total of 20 Build Points.''
''The Ax of Cú Roí mac Dáire''
''This ax, seemingly too large for a normal man to wield, is a faerie weapon. Supposedly once belonging to the Ulaidh king Cú Roí mac Dáire, this great ax is imbued with the strength and skill to use it. The weapon statistics are as the regular Pole Ax in ArM5, page 176, but any man, woman, or child with a Brave Personality Trait of +3 or more benefits from the Heroic Combat pretense and may use the Ax one-handed as though they had the appropriate Ability score of 10. The ax replaces the normal +1 Strength requirement with the +3 Brave Personality Trait requirement. This effect has a Penetration of +10, which must penetrate the wielder’s Magic Resistance and not that possessed by potential targets. The ax contains ten pawns of Mentem accrued faerie vis and the item costs 10 Build Points. See Realms of Power: Faerie, pages 19 and 62 for more details on accrued vis and pretenses.''

==Vis Sources==

''The covenant has the following ten sources to draw from. These days, it is rare for them all to be collected in a single year.''
''Tribute from the Underworld''
''Four pawns of Corpus per Year The Túatha Dé Danann entered into a pact with the covenant of Longmist many years ago. As part of that pact, while good relations persist between the Túatha Dé Danann and Longmist, they promised to lead the covenant to vis that only the Túatha Dé Danann could see.''

[|

==Summary of Vis Stocks (Cont’d)==

''Longmist also has stocks of spell-like and lesser enchantment vis: Vis     Pawns   Build Points Notes''
''Maghera Stones (Rego)  25   6  Distributed throughout the cov           enant. See later for details. Metal Shards (Ignem)   25   6  Pieces of metal from Cathal           Gobha’s forge. See later for           details. Fleas of Saint Nannan (Animal)  15   9  Soil carefully wrapped in linen           and stored in glass jars. See later           for details. Destroy the Fleas of Saint Nannan (Animal) 5   6  Soil carefully wrapped in linen a           nd stored in glass jars. See later           for details. The Burning Hand (Ignem)  5   2  Kept in Conchobor’s laboratory.           See later for details. The Balm of Tír nan Óg (Creo)  20   20  Kept in Lugh’s laboratory. See           later for details. The Ax of Cú Roí mac Dáire (Mentem) 10   10  Kept in the great hall.            See later for details. Total    105   59''

==Summary of Vis Stocks==

''Art Pawns Build Points Animal 0  0 Aquam 0  0 Auram 5  1 Corpus 15  3 Creo 10  2 Herbam	  5  1 Ignem 0  0 Imaginem5  1 Intellego	  10  2 Muto 10  2 Perdo 10  2 Rego 10  2 Mentem	  5  1 Terram 5  1 Vim 15  3 Total 105  21''

|]
''The covenant could not have foreseen that this meant unearthing bodies from their graves. The Túatha Dé Danann lead the covenant to a single human body each season. When unearthed, this body is found to contain one pawn of vis. The secret, unknown to Longmist, is that the bodies themselves do not generate the vis, nor are they subject to the affects of a Magical aura or chance event; it is placed there through Túatha Dé Danann magic. The Túatha Dé Danann have their own sources of vis, but why would they go through this charade? It may be that the aim was to make the magi of Longmist party to something clandestine and unseemly, and so closer bind them in something secret. 20 Build Points''
''From the Very Walls Themselves''
''Four pawns Vim vis per Year Centuries within the strong aura have taken their toll on the lesser tower of Longmist and parts of it now express vis each year. One pawn of Vim vis may be collected each season, but the vis accretes in the roof tiles, in the cobbles outside, or even in the walls. Over the years, this has resulted in the tower, the courtyard, and the roof becoming pockmarked through stones having been taken away for the vis that they contain. Some gaps have been hastily patched with mortar or stones picked from the ground. This is, however, a Dwindling Resource, as described earlier. That means it is losing 10% of its yield each year. In effect, after''
''three years, the yield drops to three pawns; after five years it drops to two; to one pawn after eight years; and it finally dries up altogether after ten. 20 Build Points''
''The Swine in the Woods''
''Four pawns of Herbam each Autumn In addition to the herd of cattle and a few goats, the covenant keeps swine. They were originally brought to the covenant when a source of vis was found in the woodlands not far from Longmist. The pigs were particularly sensitive to the vis that grew in the form of mushrooms and other fungi. A trained swineherd can use the pigs to forage for the vis and take the vis-bearing morsels before the pigs eat them. 20 Build Points''
''Gold Teeth from the Pike Pulled''
''Three Pawns of Terram per Year There is a fearsome pike that returns to the same stretch of water each spring to take a new wife from the gathered pike. A quick and brave fisherman can catch this pike with his bare hands, wrestle it to the bank, and there extract three gleaming teeth of gold. Each of these small but sharp teeth contains a whole pawn of Terram vis. In years gone by the covenant would hold a small feast in honor of the pike and would make its pursuit something of a competition among the covenant’s men-folk. That no longer happens and the contest with''
''the pike is now a dangerous chore. 15 Build Points''
''The Leeward Side''
''8 Pawns of Vim per Year There are certain trees in woodlands not far from Longmist where the lichen grows not on the sunward side of the trunks, but on the reverse. This lichen may be collected for two pawns of Vim vis each season. 40 Build Points''
''The Gifted Blacksmith''
''2 Pawns of Creo per year Cathal Gobha is far from Gifted, but with his forge always within a Magical aura, his work often used as the basis for enchanted items, and the raw creative forces of fire, fuel, and iron, it is not surprising that vis accumulates there. Some seasons, he finds a piece of worked iron of extreme purity that gives off its own internal heat. These glassy-black shards are too hot to be held in the hand and must be kept in water, submerged in oil, or buried in the ground in case they damage their surroundings.''
''Shard of Iron CrIg 14 Pen +0, constant effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Ind As per the Heat of the Searing Forge spell in ArM5, page 140. (Effect: Base 4, +2 Sun; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) 12 Build Points''
''The Needfire''
''Six pawns of Creo each year In a ritual described in the Lebor Feasa Runda, on the night of Beltane, the covenant convenes on land outside the Aegis and lights a large fire built from staves of willow, hazel, alder, birch, rowan, yew, elm, oak, and ash. An individual passed three times through the smoke of the needfire benefits from an effect similar to Cheating The Reaper with a Penetration of +10, ArM5, page 129. This applies to any living being, whether human, animal, Fir Bolg, or otherwise. This is pre-Hermetic magic and once the manner of making the needfire is known, it can be lit year after year, but only within a Magical aura, and the Aegis of the Hearth suppresses the effect. Where the restorative effects of the needfire are not called upon, the charred remains of the staves contain Creo vis. Some claim to have experienced visions when looking into the smoke, which suggests that the needfire may have other, as yet undiscovered, properties. 30 Build Points''
''The Black Root''
''One pawn of Perdo per year Úna, the covenant’s herbwife, has to tend her gardens well as there is a persistent presence that means harm to her herbs. Each autumn, one of her plants develops a black root. If left to grow, the root poisons all those plants around it. Once taken from the ground, the root’s power is destroyed, but it retains a pawn of Perdo vis. The root itself may grow on any of Úna’s plants; an onion one year and a parsley plant the next. On rare occasions an additional black root may be found, either in Autumn or at some other time of the year, meaning that Úna needs to be vigilant. 5 Build Points''
''The Floating Stones of Maghera''
''One pawn of Rego each Year Each year, the ground in a small grove five miles north of the Maghera Falls provides one pawn of Rego vis in the form of a single stone, little bigger than a fist, that can be identified by a long stony root that protrudes from its base and secures it deep in the ground. The stone may be quite easily broken from this slender root, but at this point it takes a group of men with a combined strength of +5 to move it. Each pawn has a constant power, described below, that makes them useful as enchanted items in their own right; when moved, they remain where they are put, even if they have no natural means of support. Many of these stones have been used through the years to create floating lecterns and work tables, and to suspend large lanterns in the air among other things. These pawns, used as enchanted devices, are bought with the points for Vis Stocks, as listed above. The source of these stones falls outside of lands recognized by the Tribunal and is therefore not protected by Hibernia’s peripheral code. ReTe 14 Pen +0, constant effect R: Personal, D: Sun, T: Ind Each stone has a power similar to the Unseen Porter spell in ArM5, page 154, that affects the stone itself. The stones are seemingly not impeded by objects placed above it, and they have the power to hold things aloft. It takes a strong man to move one of the stones but once moved it remains where it was put, without any visible means of support. (Effect: Base 3, +2 Sun, +1 Stone; Modifications: +1 for 2/day, +3 triggered at sunrise/set) 6 Build Points''
''The Hunt''
''Six pawns of various Arts each Year The hills and valleys in the west of Ulaid are rich in vis that grows in the many lowlevel Magical auras common to this area. The pawns are found by a magus taking a tenday distraction, though this may be spread across the four seasons. The vis is rarely the same each year, and thus requires a distraction from study to search for it. Animal and Herbam are most common. The hunt is now rarely conducted. It is also conducted outside lands recognized by the Tribunal and so is not protected under Hibernia’s peripheral code. 30 Build Points''

==Wealth==

''30 Build Points have been spent on wealth, and this equates to 300 Mythic Pounds in monetary value. Very little of this is in the form of actual money as whatever is gained through the income sources is soon spent on running the covenant. Instead, there are large tapestries that once kept the walls insulated, and there is fine linen, silk, velvet, and fur bedding, glass for the windows, fine silver plates and cutlery. All these things hark back to the days when the covenant would entertain princes and receive gifts in exchange for their hospitality. None of this is used. It has all been stored away as the finery and comfort is considered a distraction. Longmist has a +1 Living Standards Modifier as appropriate for a Winter covenant (ArM5, page 170). However, the covenant’s vast store of wealth can be turned into an additional +1 if it is used as intended. Doing so requires a magus to spend a season dedicated to overseeing the installation of the glass back into the windows, the hanging of the tapestries, and so on, ensuring that the other trappings of wealth are used.''

[|

==Summary of Vis Sources==

''Source   Pawns   Build Points''
''Tribute from the Underworld 4 Corpus per year  20 From the Very Walls Themselves 4 Vim per year   20 The Swine in the Woods 4 Herbam per year  20 Gold Teeth from the Pike Pulled 3 Terram per year  15 The Leeward Side  8 Vim per year   40 The Gifted Blacksmith  2 Spell-Like Ignem per year 12 The Needfire   6 Corpus per year  30 The Black Root  1 Perdo per year   5 The Floating Stones of Maghera 1 Lesser Enchantment Rego 6 The Hunt   6 pawns of various Arts per year 30 Total   39    198''

|]

==Hidden Resources==

''While many resources have been lost or destroyed across the centuries, including those whose magic failed when their creators died or entered Twilight, there are no further hidden resources waiting to be rediscovered. Any books, devices, or sources of vis that might once have belonged to Longmist are now the object of stories and are not bought out of the covenant’s Build Points. One item of note is the Bronze Bull. The covenant library contains laboratory texts for the creation of an automaton in the form of a great bull but the whereabouts of the bull itself is unknown. However, a story seed is included above that suggests that it may be found in a herd belonging to another covenant, seemingly the subject of a cattle raid many years ago. Troupes using Longmist as a player covenant may want to take the Hidden Resources Boon, balanced by the Contested Resource Hook in order to provide a further 250 Build Points of resources, representing those scattered far and wide. Reclaiming these lost resources then becomes an ongoing saga thread''

==The Covenant in Play==

''Longmist has been designed as a player covenant that provides ample resources for young magi brave enough to go against the strictures of their elders.''

==Covenant Themes==

''The themes of a Longmist saga are isolation, tradition, and conflict. These three themes shape the character of each magus at Longmist and strongly influence their attitudes to outsiders. Isolation: Although Hibernia is a small Tribunal, Longmist has built a wall around itself: a wall of quiet scorn for a world that moves on without it. Hermetic links and relationships have not been maintained and the magi look to themselves and their traditions for comfort. The covenant’s isolation has served it well. The Schism War did little overt dam''
''age to the covenant and, with the exception of the Mac Tire Clan, the covenant has no political enemies of which to speak. Tradition: Longmist has not lasted this long without building its own traditions. The magi live under strict rules and their days are rigidly prescribed from the time they rise to the time they retire. The magi rely upon ritual and rite, and the covenant has purist views upon magic, shunning the Mysteries in favor of theoretical contemplation of the Arts. The discipline of tradition, like isolation, has so far protected the covenant from hubris, corruption, and dissent. The magi are, the covenant teaches, stronger and more accomplished together than they are apart and that shared tradition is what binds them. Conflict: There are those who favor the faerie Túatha Dé Danann who live beneath the ground, and there are those who distrust them. And there are those who long to embrace the world beyond the covenant against the wishes of those who close up its walls against outsiders and hold to its traditions.''

==Player Character Roles at Longmist==

''The elder magi are designed to fill troupecontrolled roles: assigning tasks, causing obstructions, and keeping the younger magi in line with the covenant traditions. Lugh, in particular, may task the younger magi with writing and obtaining the texts on Magic Theory that he needs to prolong his life. The four younger magi described in this chapter are suitable as player characters. They each have their own magical and personal goals, which may conflict with the tradition-centric elder magi. These younger magi have the power to change the covenant’s direction, to rejuvenate it and make the most of the covenant’s resources. The covenant charter allows for specific roles and titles, which the player magi may move for. With each role gained, the player characters gain more political weight within the covenant and become more able to determine its future.''

==Suggested Storylines==

''There are several main storylines to address with a Longmist saga, and they cover threats from within the covenant in addition to threats from the outside.''
''The Death of the Elders''
''Neither Lugh nor Conchobor can live forever and it really is just a question of which one goes first. Of course, while it may seem that one without the other would bring a certain peace to the covenant, there is the potential for greater harm. Without the balance, supporters of the dead magus may find themselves mistreated by the supporters of the survivor. It is for the younger magi to contain this resentment and steer the covenant through a difficult time.''
''Covenant Governance''
''Longmist’s internal governance is an important storyline. Many magi might find the covenant’s traditions and way of life restrictive and even demeaning to their status as a magus. The younger magi have so far known little else. That may not remain the case, and the younger magi may push either for control of the covenant or at least to change the manner of its governance, against the wishes of the elder magi. Lugh and Conchobor currently control the dysfunctional council, but if the younger magi could place themselves into the vacant offices, they would gain additional votes and power, allowing them to start setting the covenant’s agenda. Stories around governance are a good fit for Eochaid and Mícheál; the former as he tends to fall foul of the covenant’s rule and Mícheál as he is nominally responsible for ensuring that the rule is followed. Stories concerning governance arise out of the Fractured Council and Divided Loyalty Hooks.''
''Rebuilding the Covenant''
''Longmist is in need of repair. Its finances also are in a poor state and this also needs to be addressed. How long before someone is injured by crumbling masonry or one of the stored tapestries needs to be sold in order to pay for provisions? Stories of rebuilding the covenant are going to involve the younger magi taking the lead, perhaps even going against the instructions of their elders by inviting new craftsmen to the covenant or seeking out new sources of income. Stories of rebuilding the covenant arise from the Crumbling and Dwindling Resource Hooks.''
''Clan mac Tire''
''Relations with Clan mac Tire continue to be antagonistic, including attempts upon the Cathach, unless the magi of Longmist put an end to the trouble. This requires either negotiation or force. The Clan accepts nothing less than the handing over of Ualgrimm’s pelt, but in doing so the covenant loses its Cathach. Taking this route involves the discovery and declaration of a new trophy. The alternative is continued and escalating conflict. Stories center around the Clan’s attempts to retrieve Ualgrimm’s pelt, through infiltration and stealth, frontal assault, attacking Ruadan’s people, or through working with allies who take the fight to Longmist. There are also opportunities to play the “enemy of my enemy” card and find situations for a temporary truce in the face of a greater common enemy. Given his traumatic personal experience with the Clan, Mícheál should be a''
''central character in stories concerning the Clan mac Tire. Stories around the Clan mac Tire arise from the Contested Resource Hook.''
''Alliance with the Túatha Dé Danann''
''The Túatha Dé Danann are an ally to the covenant but their aims are not yet clear, though Ruadan certainly works hard to keep the valley and the covenant isolated. As immortals, they may consider playing the covenant for centuries as but the blink of an eye, but can the magi of Longmist discover their plans and release the covenant from their influence? Ruadan’s plan seems centered on continuing Longmist’s isolation, but there seems no particular reason for it. As an immortal of the Túatha Dé Danann, however, Ruadan may only now be ready to put his plans into effect. Perhaps the covenant is offered an apprentice with Túatha Dé Danann blood, someone who can start to take over the covenant from within, or perhaps Ruadan starts to influence Longmist’s research to lift the curse that keeps the Túatha Dé Danann out of the sunlight. Given Eochaid’s suspicions concerning''
''Ruadan’s motives, he would make the ideal central character for these stories. Given his ability to commune with spirits and his connections with the other races of Hibernia, Dara would also figure prominently. These stories arise out of the Faerie Court Hook.''
''Rejoining Hermetic Society''
''Longmist has been distant from the Tribunal for a lifetime and more. Those within the covenant may see the time as right to rejoin Hermetic society, and embrace trade and exchange. Such a course may bring dangers, as magi take advantage of the covenant’s naivety. Eochaid, The Cailleach, and Dara specifically all have views at odds with both Lugh and Conchobor. Given his responsibilities, Mícheál is expected to uphold Longmist’s isolation, which sets up an important conflict. Conchobor, under the influence of Ruadan, wants the covenant to distance itself from all forms of Hermetic contact. He is likely to become a significant antagonist in such stories. The Cailleach, if she is to repair the''

[|

==Covenant Finances The covenant, at present, costs more to run than the income it generates as it has an income of 80 Mythic Pounds per year but is currently spending 84 ½ Mythic Pounds across the same period. The largest cost by far is for the Hermetic laboratories maintained by the magi. In particular, Lugh’s laboratory represents the biggest draw on the covenant’s coffers. The expenditure in Mythic Pounds breaks down as follows:==

''Expenditure  Base Cost Reduction Total Buildings  8  0  8 Consumables 16  –3  13 Laboratories  44 ½  0  44 ½ Tithes  0  0  0 Wages  16  0  16 Weapons and Armor 1  –1  0 Writing Materials 7  –4  3 Total      84 ½''
''The cost of the weapons and armor includes all in use by the current grogs and their captain and a further six sets of basic equipment in the stores. There is enough wealth already at the covenant to mask the shortfall, as has been done for several years. To anyone taking a closer look at the finances however, the situation becomes obvious. There are things that can be done. An additional source of income could be secured, which may mean the magi venturing out into the world to find opportunities. Alternatively, the excessive amount spent on laboratories could be curtailed, although this would first need to be agreed by Lugh. Lastly, the covenant could employ  craftsmen to provision the laboratories, such as glass-blowers and silversmiths, bring stonemasons and builders to the covenant, or start brewing its own ale again under a master brewer; all of these provide significant cost reductions and make the covenant more self-reliant. The cost, of course, is that the covenant gives up some of its isolation. More on covenant wealth can be found in Covenants, chapter five.''

==Loyalty==

''The covenfolk are currently surprisingly loyal, with a Prevailing Loyalty value of 0. Using the rules on age 36 of Covenants, we get a base loyalty of –42.5 based on the Gifts of the member magi, which is modified to zero as the covenant has been around for so long and the covenfolk have grown up around their influence. The only one of the three mundane offices that have been filled is that of the Turb Captain and he provides a +5 bonus. The covenant has a zero Living Conditions bonus for covenfolk, however, as the covenant is particularly austere it does impose a –1 penalty. This gives a total of 4 loyalty points, which is not quite enough to buy a Loyalty Score of one.''
''Base Loyalty  –42.5 Modifier Covenant Age	 +42.5 Turb Captain  +5 Living Conditions +0 Austerity  –1 Total  +4''
''Furthermore, zero is simply the prevailing loyalty. Across numerous interactions with Lugh and Conchobor, not to mention the younger magi, the covenfolk may find themselves ignored or abused, each of which reduces their loyalty. In order to reverse this trend, the covenant can employ a steward and a chamberlain, both of whom help to improve the prevailing loyalty.''

|]
''bronze man, needs to find a Verditius master to teach her the mystery of automatons and for that she needs to venture outside of Longmist. Eochaid can see little value in the persistent adherence to the rule and may challenge the control the covenant has over what they study and even how they conduct themselves. These stories arise from the Seclusion and Superiors Hooks.''
''Expelling Foreign Magi from Hibernia''
''There are those within Longmist who see Hibernia as subject to Hermetic invasion. Longmist could return as a beacon for all like-minded Hibernian magi, but forming a consensus among the magi may be difficult. Attracting the right allies and determining strategy would also be a challenge, as would taking the matter to Tribunal or even further. Lugh becomes the driver for these stories if he ever decides to distribute his books, and each of the younger magi must decide where he stands. Stories can also be sparked by the encroachment of foreign magi on lands Longmist considers its own, particularly their vis sources. The influx of foreign magi over the last fifty years means different things for each of the younger magi. For Dara and Mícheál they may represent a threat to the traditions they have grown up with, but for Eochaid and The Cailleach they may represent new opportunities for freedom and learning. These stories arise from the covenant’s Fractured Council and also the Seclusion Hook.''

==Longmist as a Background Covenant==

''Magi within Hibernia may wonder what has happened to the covenant of Longmist. While Redcaps report being received politely, the covenant has not attended Tribunal in any meaningful way for many years. The player magi could be tasked with investigating Longmist to determine the cause of this withdrawal and to see what can be done to bring them back.''
''The nomadic Clan mac Tire may approach the player covenant to gain allies in a raid on Longmist designed to retrieve its Cathach, the pelt of the Bjornaer magus Ualgrimm, with a promise of a share of the spoils. Longmist may seek aid in recapturing its Cathach, in which case the player covenant can negotiate its price before tracking the Clan mac Tire across Ulaid, a hunt that may even take them into Connacht. As a silent voice within the Tribunal, Longmist’s six votes may be turned toward any political aim supported by the player magi. Engaging with the covenant and persuading them of the merits of the argument is one potential storyline. On the other hand, Lugh’s extensive and polemic work on Hibernia’s future may see publication. The books are divisive and serve only to drive conflict across the Tribunal. Longmist may be approached by both sides of the argument, either to disrupt the flow of books or to ensure their publication. The elder magus Lugh fears that his end is near and he is willing to exchange the wealth of the covenant for as many new volumes in Magic Theory as he can so that he may increase his ability to renew his Longevity Ritual. Such a bargain may be made secretly through the Redcaps, which could create conflict with the other magi of the covenant. And of course, as an old covenant, Longmist already holds some unique magical devices. Troupes may also add any others that their sagas need, and the withdrawn magi of Longmist make a challenging barrier to acquiring such devices.''

[|

==Moving Longmist to Other Tribunals==

''Longmist is located in the northeast of Hibernia, in the land of the Ulaidh, but with a little work the covenant can be moved to another Tribunal. The central themes discussed at the start of this chapter can also be adapted. For instance, the division within the covenant between embracing the outsiders and preparing for conflict with them can be replaced with both sides of the Harmonist-Wilderist debate prevalent in the Rhine. Their isolation may come from relocating the covenant to the cold Alpine mountains, or to the Holy Land. The Cathach has a particular importance in Hibernia, but even in other Tribunals, the retention of the pelt of a slain Bjornaer magus is a provocative act. Those who consider themselves Ualgrimm’s descendants still want to avenge this insult and still work toward reclaiming the trophy, either through their own powers or through allies.''
{{OpenArs Attribution}}
{{ArsMnavbox}}
